K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about Strategic Investment Solutions Ltd (SIS).  Hes unhappy with the
service he received when  SIS arranged  the transfer  of his Occupational Pension Scheme
(OPS) funds to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr Fs original financial advisers were a company Ill refer to as Adviser B. As Adviser B
didnt have the required permissions to give advice on the transfer of OPS  benefits, 
it suggested Mr F take advice from SIS. SIS was a financial adviser with the 
necessary permissions.
Mr F was sent SISs  recommendation  on 25 August 2015. SIS advised Mr F to transfer his 
OPS funds to a SIPP on a Platform with a provider Ill refer to as Provider  Z. SIS also 
sent Mr F its engagement letter and terms of business.
Regarding where  Mr Fs OPS funds would be invested SIS said:
On receipt at [Provider  Z], the transfer payment will be invested  in line with your existing 
investments which  I understand are as follows () Your choice of funds should  be kept 
under regular review.  The three  funds Mr F wanted  his OPS funds invested in were 
outlined in SISs  letter.
Regarding its role SISs  said:
() your requirement from us is to focus  our advice on () specific areas which  are 
detailed () You will remain under the servicing  of [Adviser B] for all other aspects of 
your financial  planning needs including review  of any arrangements we facilitate for you 
as a result  of our advice ()
Regarding remuneration  for services provided SISs letter said:
2.2 Our fees are based on the level of work  completed in providing  you with advice  and
implementation of any agreed  solution.
SIS confirmed its fee for advice and the implementation of agreed  services would be £2,000.
Mr F accepted SISs  recommendation, agreed to its fee and asked it to arrange the 
transfer of his OPS funds.  Mr F also completed, signed and returned  the SIPP application 
and remuneration declaration form. The remuneration declaration form confirmed the 
charges applicable for the transfer  and the fund manager  charges for the three  funds Mr F 
ultimately wanted his money invested  in.
The transfer process was later initiated by SIS and it got in touch with the 
appropriate parties.
On 16 September 2015 Provider Z sent Mr F documentation for his SIPP.
Because SIS hadnt used Provider  Zs Platform before it asked Provider  Z for help 
completing Mr Fs transfer. SIS had a support session and call with one of Provider Zs 
Ref: DRN79207782consultants on 4 January 2016. On the same day emails show SIS and Provider  Z 
confirming with each  other that Mr Fs OPS funds had been successfully transferred to his 
new SIPP  and the appropriate level of tax free cash (TFC) paid. There was no mention of 
what Mr Fs funds  had been or should  be invested in. Mr Fs money remained in his SIPP  
in cash.
On 14 January 2016 SIS contacted Provider  Z querying the payment of its adviser fee. 
Provider Z responded and said that on 4 January the expectation of payment had been 
keyed into its system by SIS. However  it still needed Mr Fs signature on the 
remuneration declaration  form to be able to pay out the keyed amount. Provider Z said it 
hadnt received  this form and asked if it had been  emailed or posted. SIS emailed 
Provider Z a copy of Mr Fs completed  form on the same day.
SISs adviser fee was later paid and the servicing of Mr Fs SIPP was passed  to Adviser B. 
Mr F was already  an existing customer of Adviser B and his annual reviews were  set up to 
be carried out in June of every year. So Adviser B contacted Mr F in May 2016 to schedule  a 
review. Initially  Mr F didnt respond and when he finally did he confirmed he was going  on 
holiday. A mutually agreeable date for the review wasnt  set until February 2017.
On 14 February  2017 Mr F had a review meeting with Adviser B. It was at this point 
identified that Mr Fs 2016 transfer hadnt  been  completed successfully. Mr Fs OPS  funds  
had been transferred to a SIPP with Provider  Z but not been invested  in the specific  funds 
hed requested. They were still held in the cash fund. Mr F later raised a complaint about 
this to SIS.
On 18 April 2017 SIS provided  its final response  to Mr Fs complaint. In summary it said:
on 4 January 2016 the transfer  of Mr Fs OPS  was completed when the relevant 
cash arrived in his SIPP  on Provider  Zs Platform
its procedure was then to complete all relevant forms online via Provider  Zs 
Platform so the payment of TFC could be made and the remaining funds invested 
appropriately. Its advice fee would also be paid and then the servicing  rights  for Mr 
Fs SIPP  would be transferred back to his original IFA, Adviser  B
SIS hadnt used Provider Zs Platform before  but as it was the designated  
investment proposition  used  by Mr Fs original  IFA it was factored into SISs  advice 
process
once the transfer  was completed SIS asked for Provider Zs assistance processing 
the release of the TFC,  the investment of the remaining funds and releasing its fee
Provider Z arranged  a call with SIS and logged into SISs system  remotely to work 
through the remaining  aspects of the transfer process
having gone through all the relevant steps  completing forms online it understood all 
actions for the transfer process  had been  completed and Mr Fs money had been 
invested in line with his instructions
by the time any issue was identified, Mr Fs SIPP had been transferred back  to being 
serviced by Adviser B. Once  this transfer  of servicing happened  SIS no longer had 
access to Mr Fs SIPP  to review  and identify whether there were any problems
it appeared that after the appropriate forms were completed  online with Provider Zs 
assistance a problem occurred with the investment  of Mr Fs money. And as a result  
it had remained in cash when  it shouldntve
Ref: DRN79207783although Provider Z had said it was SISs responsibility to complete appropriate 
forms as it simply  administered  instructions,  it was clear  that on this occasion 
Provider Z had done more. Provider Z was aware  SIS was unfamiliar with its 
Platform and went above and beyond to provide  assistance with it
Provider Z had provided verbal assurances that all appropriate documents had been 
completed correctly so assumed whatever error  occurred was the fault of Provider Z
Provider Z sent valuations to Mr F in April and October 2016 at which  point the 
problem couldve been identified but unfortunately wasnt
SIS had taken all reasonable steps  required in the circumstances
Mr Fs original IFA, Adviser  B shouldve upon  receiving  servicing  authority back  
reviewed Mr Fs SIPP to make sure it was invested in line with the advice SIS had 
provided. If this had been done  any loss Mr F incurred couldve been greatly reduced
it didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint and felt Provider Z was at fault as it led SIS through 
the form completion process  on its Platform
Unhappy with SISs  response Mr F referred his complaint  to our service. By that stage 
hed also complained to Provider Z. That complaint was also referred  to us. Weve dealt 
with it under separate reference.
One of our investigators considered the matter  and initially concluded that SIS hadnt 
done anything  wrong. He said Adviser B shouldve checked Mr Fs money had been 
invested in the correct  funds when servicing rights were transferred to it.
Mr F responded and disagreed. He didnt think Adviser B was responsible  for what  
happened. He argued SIS and Provider  Z were.  Mr F said SIS had long enough to 
ensure the transfer had been  completed successfully before the servicing  of his SIPP  
was transferred to Adviser  B.
Our investigator reconsidered the matter and changed his opinion.  He said he thought 
SIS was responsible  for ensuring Mr Fs money was invested  correctly and felt Mr F 
should be compensated for this. He explained  that he didnt think there  was enough  
evidence to say that what had happened was Provider Zs fault.
SIS responded to our investigator  and in summary said:
it didnt think it was responsible for what happened and had trusted Provider Z to 
complete the investment of Mr Fs funds correctly
it agreed it had a duty of care to review  that Mr Fs money had been invested 
correctly. But as its review process  was usually two weeks after every transfer and 
servicing rights to Mr Fs SIPP  were transferred to Adviser B before the two week  
check SIS couldnt complete the review and identify any issue
SIS had been comfortable  with Provider  Zs assurances  that Mr Fs money had been 
properly invested
Adviser B had a responsibility to check Mr Fs SIPP as part of its servicing 
agreement. And if it had done  so the matter couldve been  rectified  immediately
it disagreed with the basis on which  our investigator felt Mr Fs losses  should  be 
calculated. It said the loss calculation should only be carried out up to when Adviser 
B took over servicing of Mr Fs SIPP in January 2016 and not up to February  2017 
when Mr Fs SIPP  was eventually reviewed by Adviser B. It didnt think  it was 
reasonable for Adviser  B not to have  reviewed Mr Fs SIPP  for so long
Adviser B couldve  reasonably identified  the error as spending two minutes logging  
into the [Provider Z] platform and checking the valuation would have been enough
Ref: DRN79207784Mr F had been sent two valuations for his SIPP,  the first being  in April 2016. At this 
point it wouldve been reasonable for Mr F to be aware of the position of his SIPP 
being in Cash
Mr F also provided his comments.  In summary he said:
SIS had failed to do what hed paid it to do and he didnt think it was appropriate  it 
recommended Provider Zs platform to him just because Adviser  B had suggested 
this
it wasnt acceptable that SIS had recommended a product  it admitted it didnt  
understand. So it shouldnt have taken  on the job of his transfer and investment
he didnt agree the April 2016  statement wouldve alerted him to the issue as he 
didnt fully understand what  he was looking at
hed trusted SIS and felt very let down
Our investigator reconsidered the matter further and concluded that both SIS and 
Provider Z were  equally  responsible for the error  and that any financial loss suffered by 
Mr F should  be paid by both parties  on a 50/50  basis. He reiterated  that he didnt  think 
Adviser B had done anything wrong.
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive 
taken note of the extensive arguments and comments  made,  I have limited my response to 
the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
what SISs role and responsibility  was
whether SIS fulfilled its role and responsibility
whether Mr F has been  disadvantaged  as a result of any act or omission by SIS
And, as Ive mentioned, SIS wasnt the only party  involved. Mr Fs complaint against
Provider Z has been considered separately. But Ive borne in mind  and taken  into 
account that partys role and responsibilities in deciding  this complaint against SIS.
Mr Fs original advisers were Adviser B, however  to facilitate the transfer he wanted  Mr F 
engaged the services  of SIS which was authorised  to give advice  on OPS transfers. It was 
agreed that SIS would provide the financial  advice  Mr F required, organise  the transfer of 
his funds to a SIPP on Provider Zs platform and ensure his money was invested  in line 
with his wishes. Once this was completed by SIS the servicing responsibility of Mr Fs 
SIPP was to be transferred back to his original advisers,  Adviser  B. This summary of SISs 
role and responsibility is supported not only by the documentation SIS provided to Mr S 
when it advised  him but also the documentation  Provider Z provided regarding its Platform 
and SIPP.  Ive highlighted some of the relevant information below:
    SISs Engagement letter to Mr F said:
() your requirement from us is to focus our advice on () specific areas which are detailed () You will
Ref: DRN79207785remain under the servicing of [Adviser  B] for all other  aspects of your financial planning needs including review 
of any arrangements we facilitate for you as a result of our advice ()
    Regarding  where Mr Fs OPS funds  would be invested SIS said:
On receipt at [Provider Z], the transfer payment will be invested in line with your existing investments which  I
understand are as follows () Your choice  of funds should be kept under regular  review.
The three funds  Mr F wanted his OPS funds invested in were  outlined in SISs letter.
    The terms and conditions applicable to Provider  Zs Platform and SIPP said:
[The Platform/SIPP] is only available  through your adviser  () We are the provider.  We will carry out 
instructions we receive from your adviser () We will not:
      () exercise any judgement on your behalf as to the merits of any instructions  we receive or 
on any assets  you invest in ()
be responsible for the acts or omissions of any () advisers ()
Your adviser  is responsible for:
Providing you with financial advice and ensuring  () the assets you invest in and the choices you make 
are suitable for you
Giving  us instructions on your behalf, usually by submitting those instructions  to us online, and ensuring 
such instructions have been executed correctly- only your adviser or the investment  adviser can submit 
instructions to us online  ()
The investment adviser is responsible for setting up [the SIPP]  on [Provider Zs] online service and for selecting 
the assets and weightings.  ()
Investment strategy
It is your responsibility, together with your adviser,  to choose () the assets  in which  to invest your payments 
and cash transfers. Each time your adviser sets up a () transfer your adviser must  advise us of your investment 
strategy specifying what  assets to buy with it ()
It is the responsibility of your adviser () to ensure that the instructions that they place  on your behalf have  been 
transacted. We will only provide  confirmation  of completed transactions
Your commitment- what we ask you to do
With your adviser,  regularly review the payments you make, your investment  strategy () to make sure 
your account can support your future income needs
Based on what Ive highlighted above  I dont think there was any ambiguity about SISs  role
and responsibility  in the circumstances surrounding Mr Fs transfer. Indeed there doesnt 
appear to be any dispute between the parties  involved  about the fact SIS was required to 
provide financial  advice, set up the SIPP, arrange the transfer of Mr Fs OPS funds into 
the SIPP and ensure  they were invested  in line with his wishes.
From what  Ive seen SIS did partly fulfil its responsibility to Mr F in that it provided the 
required advice, organised the transfer and set up the SIPP.  But unfortunately it seems  to 
have failed to ensure Mr Fs SIPP funds were  invested in line with his instructions. SIS 
confirmed it was aware of where Mr F wanted his SIPP funds invested as it outlined  this 
in its Engagement letter to Mr F at the start. So the investment  of Mr Fs funds shouldve 
happened as agreed. SIS doesnt  appear  to dispute this. However it maintains it isnt 
responsible for Mr Fs funds not being  invested  correctly.
Ref: DRN79207786Its unclear exactly what happened when SIS asked for Provider  Zs assistance  completing  
Mr Fs transfer  and investing  his funds. Unfortunately theres no recording of the telephone 
call SIS had with Provider Z on the day this happened. But what  the available evidence  
does show is that once  transferred into his SIPP, Mr Fs funds remained in Cash and were 
never invested in the funds hed chosen. Mr F is very upset about this and feels hes lost 
out financially  as a result.
Having carefully considered the matter I do think SIS is responsible for the fact Mr Fs 
funds werent invested correctly. And that its therefore  responsible  for some  of the 
financial loss Mr F may have experienced as a result. Ill explain why.
Irrespective of its unfamiliarity with Provider Zs online Platform, SIS was ultimately 
responsible for investing Mr Fs funds. Mr F was wholly  reliant on SIS carrying out 
his transfer correctly and investing  his money  appropriately.
In line with Provider  Zs Platform and SIPP terms and conditions  Mr Fs funds were  
transferred into his SIPP in Cash. It remained SISs  responsibility to instruct  Provider Z 
(by submitting instructions  online)  as to where  these funds should be invested. However 
from what Ive seen  no such instruction was ever given by SIS.
Im aware that SIS needed to arrange a number of things following Mr Fs transfer. And the
available evidence shows  it asked for Provider  Zs help with the release of its adviser fee
and payment of Mr Fs TFC. Theres nothing to suggest  SIS asked Provider Z to carry out 
Mr Fs investment instructions and complete forms on its behalf. Indeed Provider Z has 
confirmed this isnt something its Platform agents  are permitted to do. It also seems odd to 
me that SIS would ask Provider Z to do what it was both responsible for and being  paid to
do.
But even if I were  to accept that SIS asked Provider  Z for help allocating Mr Fs funds  
to specific investments, SIS was still principally  responsible for ensuring Mr Fs funds 
were invested where they should  be.
I think that in the circumstances SIS shouldve got confirmation from Provider  Z that Mr Fs
transfer and investments had been completed correctly. Emails  from the time show the only 
confirmation SIS received  from Provider Z was that Mr Fs funds had been allocated  to his
SIPP account and that the appropriate  TFC had been paid. Theres nothing  to show  SIS 
received any confirmation  from Provider  Z about the investment of Mr Fs funds. Im also 
mindful of the fact that Provider  Zs terms and conditions clearly state: We will only provide 
confirmation of completed transactions.
Im not satisfied with the basis on which SIS says it was comfortable everything with Mr Fs 
transfer had been carried out as it shouldve right up to completion.
SIS has said its understanding at the time was that all appropriate actions relating to Mr Fs 
transfer, including  the investment of his funds, had been completed successfully. But it isnt 
able to provide  any evidence of any confirmation it received to support this understanding. 
SIS has referred to verbal assurances  it says Provider Z gave  it but given the significance 
of the transaction being made I dont think this was enough or appropriate  for SIS to rely on 
as confirmation  the investment of Mr Fs funds had been completed correctly.
Ref: DRN79207787Provider Z has provided a screenshot which shows Mr Fs transfer was keyed in to be 
invested 100% in Cash. The funds  he wanted  to invest in are listed  but none of Mr Fs 
money is allocated  to these funds.
Given SISs self-confessed unfamiliarity with Provider  Zs Platform  I think it wouldve been 
prudent for it to check Mr Fs investments had been made correctly. Indeed SIS seems to 
recognise how easy this wouldve  been to do when it says Adviser  B shouldve done  the 
same thing when it took over the servicing  of Mr Fs SIPP:
spending two minutes logging into the [Provider Z Platform] and checking  the valuation  
would have been enough.
This is something I think SIS ought  to have done before the servicing  of Mr Fs SIPP  was 
transferred to Adviser B. And I dont  think it has provided compelling reasons for why it 
didnt.
SIS has sought to explain why it didnt  check Mr Fs funds had been invested correctly  and
said:
we agree completely  that we have a duty of care to review that money is invested correctly
after a transfer and we carry out a review process  two weeks  after every transfer to ensure 
things have completed correctly. However, on this occasion the client and servicing rights 
for the scheme were transferred away from SIS before the two week check  could be 
completed meaning SIS lost access to any details of the plan.
SIS was aware at the outset that the servicing  of Mr Fs SIPP would transfer  back  to Adviser  
B once  it had completed the transfer  as agreed. Indeed this was confirmed in SISs 
Engagement letter to Mr F at the outset. So Im not persuaded  by its argument that it 
couldnt check Mr Fs transaction  had gone through correctly because servicing was 
transferred to Adviser B before it had a chance to carry out the review it usually does two 
weeks after a transfer.
SIS should have made specific  arrangements to check Mr Fs funds were invested  
correctly before responsibility  was passed  to Adviser B. I dont think it was appropriate for 
SIS to simply expect  Adviser  B to check that it had carried  out the transfer correctly. SIS 
was responsible for this as it formed part of the services it agreed  to provide Mr F with and 
for which Mr F paid a fee.
SIS has also argued that it isnt at fault for what happened because using Provider Zs 
Platform and SIPP was Adviser Bs designated investment proposition  and not something 
which it necessarily suggested in the first place. Im not persuaded by this argument. 
Irrespective of the background, SIS ultimately  advised Mr F to transfer  his OPS funds to a 
SIPP on Provider Zs Platform. In doing so it assumed responsibility for the transfer of Mr 
Fs funds and their subsequent investment.
Overall Im satisfied SIS failed to take reasonable steps to ensure Mr Fs funds were 
invested correctly.  And because of this I think its responsible for some of the financial 
loss Mr F has suffered  as a result.
Mr F would like SIS to compensate him for:
Ref: DRN79207788any financial loss suffered as a result of his funds not being invested  correctly from 
the date his funds were allocated to his SIPP account (4 January 2016) up until 
now
the £2,000 advice  fee he paid SIS to transfer  and invest his funds
SIS doesnt agree and has said it doesnt  think it should be responsible  for any financial 
loss Mr F has experienced  from the date Adviser B took over the servicing/review 
responsibility of Mr Fs SIPP. It says that when this happened in January 2016 Adviser B 
shouldve checked  Mr Fs SIPP had been invested correctly. I dont agree.
Neither Mr F nor Adviser  B had any reason to doubt that SIS hadnt arranged  for Mr Fs 
funds to be invested correctly. So I dont think its reasonable  to say that SIS is only 
responsible for Mr Fs losses up to the point  Adviser  B took over servicing of the SIPP. 
But I also dont  think Mr Fs request that SIS compensate him for losses  from 4 January  
2016 up until now is reasonable either. Ill explain why.
They key issue here is when Mr F became aware  or ought reasonably to have been 
aware there  was an issue with the investment of his funds. This is the point up to which  I 
consider Mr Fs financial losses should  be calculated to and which SIS is responsible  for 
compensating Mr F.
Mr F has said he first became aware  there  was a problem with his SIPP  investments on 
14 February 2017 when he had his first review meeting with Adviser  B. But Im mindful of 
several things:
Adviser B has confirmed that as Mr F was one of its existing customers it had 
agreed his annual reviews  would take place in June each year. As the servicing  of 
Mr Fs SIPP was transferred to Adviser B in January 2016 Mr Fs review wasnt due 
until June 2016. Adviser B has confirmed  it sent a review request letter  to Mr F on 
12 May 2016 asking  for a convenient  time to meet in June. However  Mr F didnt 
respond. Adviser B subsequently  emailed Mr F on 10 June 2016  asking  again  when 
Mr F would be available to meet. Mr F responded saying he was going away  on 
holiday and that hed contact Adviser B when he returned to schedule a meeting. Mr 
F didnt  contact Adviser B again  in 2016. Adviser B then contacted Mr F in February  
2017 to arrange a review. The review happened on 14 February 2017- it was at this 
point the issue  with the SIPP  was identified
Mr F seems to accept  the delay in his SIPP being reviewed by Adviser B was mainly 
due to him when  he says: () You will see that the review  meetings I should  have  
had with them didnt  happen until 13 months after the non-transfer  and this was my 
fault as I did not consider that much would have altered  in the time in between the 
transfer and review.
Provider Z sent Mr F portfolio Statements in April and October  2016
Mr F was advised by SIS and Provider  Z at the very outset of the importance  of 
reviewing his SIPP investments regularly with his adviser:  Your commitment-  what we 
ask you to do () With your adviser, regularly review the payments you make, your 
investment strategy () to make sure your account can support your future  income 
needs () Your choice  of funds should  be kept under regular review
Based on the above Ive reached the following conclusions:
Ref: DRN79207789Provider Z has confirmed hard copies of Portfolio Statements were  sent to Mr F in 
April and October 2016. They werent  sent to Mr Fs financial  adviser  Adviser  B 
however they were  immediately available to view when they logged  into the 
Portfolio via the Platform. The Terms  & Conditions of Provider Zs Portfolio 
confirmed that half-yearly statements would be issued in April and October each 
year. Mr F doesnt dispute receiving the statements but says he didnt and still 
doesnt understand all the figures presented. Ive carefully  reviewed the statements 
and given their contents I think  its arguable that Mr F should have noticed the 
money from the transfer was in cash.  The April 2016 statement provides a 
breakdown which  says Mr Fs total fund value is £344,540.97 of which £190,110.94  
is held in cash. But I dont think much turns on that given what  I go on to say below 
about Mr F not having arranged a review  meeting with Adviser  B promptly.
I think its reasonable to assume that Adviser B upon securing  a date with Mr F to 
review his SIPP wouldve  reviewed the available statements  and noticed  Mr Fs 
funds hadnt been  invested  correctly. However as confirmed above, Adviser B wasnt 
able to meet with Mr F and review his SIPP until February 2017. But as this was 
down to Mr F delaying the review meeting which shouldve  originally happened  in 
June 2016 I dont think its reasonable that SIS is responsible  for Mr Fs losses  up 
until February 2017 when he finally got around  to rescheduling  the meeting. I think  
its reasonable to conclude that if the June 2016 review meeting had gone ahead  as 
it shouldve Mr F would been  aware at the time that there was an issue  with his SIPP 
and taken action  to correct this.
Ive also seen that both SIS and Provider  Z highlighted  to Mr F the importance  of 
reviewing his investments  regularly.  So while I note Mr Fs argument that he didnt 
think much  would  have  happened with his investments from when he started his 
SIPP until February 2017 I dont think it was reasonable that he didnt agree to a 
review sooner.
Overall having carefully considered the matter I think that but for the fact Mr F delayed  his
review meeting with Adviser  B, he wouldve reasonably  been  aware  there was an issue 
with his SIPP in June 2016. So I think  SIS is responsible for any financial loss Mr F has 
suffered as a result  of his SIPP  funds not being invested correctly  from the date Mr Fs 
SIPP received his OPS  funds (4 January 2016) until 30 June 2016  when he shouldve had 
his financial review with Adviser  B and been  able to take corrective action.
I understand that Mr F feels SIS is responsible for any financial  loss hes suffered up until 
now but Im unable to agree.  Ive already explained why I think  the loss calculation  should 
be done up to 30 June  2016. I note that Provider  Z has also confirmed that despite Mr F 
saying he became aware in February  2017  that his funds hadnt been  invested correctly, no 
action has been  taken since then to alter the situation. Its not clear  to me why this hasnt
happened. I wouldve expected Mr F to take reasonable  steps to correct  the position  of his 
investments once he was aware there  was a problem. This would have minimised  any 
further financial losses. This didnt happen, so again I think Mr Fs financial losses (for 
which SIS is responsible for) should  be calculated up until 30 June 2016 when the situation 
couldve reasonably  been corrected.
Ive considered Mr Fs argument  that SIS should refund the £2,000 fee he paid. I do 
understand Mr Fs strength of feeling on the matter; especially  as he didnt receive the 
Ref: DRN792077810entire service he paid for. However I dont think itd be fair to refund the fee because  the 
calculation Ive outlined  above will put Mr F back in the position  he wouldve been  in had the 
transfer gone through as it shouldve.  And as part of this Mr F wouldve had to pay a fee. 
This is factored into the loss calculation.
Id like to say that I do appreciate how unhappy Mr F feels. Understandably he feels  let 
down by SIS. I think he was entitled  to rely on SIS in the circumstances to carry out his 
transfer and invest  his funds appropriately. As he said,  he trusted SIS to act in his best 
interests and for reasons Ive already explained  Im not entirely satisfied  SIS did this. Mr F 
has put a lot of time and energy into trying to get to the bottom of what happened.  The 
situation has no doubt been stressful and caused  him much frustration and disappointment. 
Based on this I think its appropriate SIS pay Mr F compensation  for trouble and upset it 
has caused. I think £100 compensation would fairly recognise the emotional impact  of SISs 
failings in the circumstances.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr F as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if
SIS had acted as it should have  done.  Because the transfer value from his OPS remained 
in cash Mr Fs lost out on investment growth  on that money.
Its clear what funds Mr F wouldve invested in. But calculating  redress  using the actual 
funds would be difficult, take more  time and require considerable input from Provider Z. I 
dont think it would be practical to ask Provider Z to carry out notional calculations.  So 
Ive suggested  an index is used.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Fs circumstances
and objectives  when he invested as confirmed by him and documentary evidence from the 
time of the transfer. Looking at the funds he wanted to invest  in I think  he was a 
medium/balanced investor. The benchmark Ive suggested below reflects that.
To compensate Mr F fairly, SIS must:
Calculate what return Mr Fs transfer value would earned between  4 January 
2016 and 30 June 2016 had it been invested in line with the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index). SIS should then roll up that loss to the date of 
my final decision using  the same benchmark.  SIS should then pay an amount into 
Mr Fs SIPP to increase  its value by the amount  of the compensation. The amount 
paid should allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief.  
Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If SIS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Fs SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise  have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Rs actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement age.
Ref: DRN792077811For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
    Pay Mr F £100 for the emotional  impact of SISs failings
If SIS thinks  it will have difficulty in carrying out the redress calculation it should  let me 
know (and assuming  Im still minded to uphold the complaint and award  the above 
redress having considered any further  comments by Mr F and/or SIS) this service is 
happy to carry out the redress calculation for SIS. Wed  make both parties  aware of the 
outcome before I make my final decision.
I invited Mr F and SIS to comment on my provisional decision. 
Mr F responded and said he found  the conclusions in my provisional decision 
acceptable. He did however say he felt the proposed £100  compensation was 
undervalued and would have preferred it to be closer to £500.
SIS responded  to my provisional decision  and in summary said:
it disagreed with the dates I said should  be used to establish any financial loss Mr 
F had suffered  as a result of what happened
the April 2016  Portfolio Statement  sent to Mr F provided him with enough  
information to recognise the error  that had been  made and so the loss calculation 
should be done up until the date Mr F received the statement and not to 30 June 
2016 as I said in my provisional decision- this being the date I said Mr F shouldve 
had his financial review  with Adviser B, been able to identify the error and take 
corrective action
its responsibility for Mr Fs financial loss should  only be from 4 January 2016 to 30 
April 2016 (preferably the specific  date Mr F received the Portfolio Statement)
it hadnt been able to complete the review it wouldve ordinarily carried out for Mr Fs 
transfer because  Adviser B had rushed  through the process of Mr Fs client 
authorisation and servicing rights being  transferred back  to it. This had resulted in 
SISs access to Mr Fs account and plan details being terminated and with SIS no 
longer being paid the £2,000 advice fee
Adviser Bs actions soon after the transfer  had only acted to circumvent  [its] 
auditing process  in checking assets  are correctly  allocated  and invested. This 
effectively led to the error  giving  rise to this complaint ()
it was Adviser Bs responsibility  to check that Mr Fs money had been invested 
correctly once client servicing and servicing rights had been  transferred back  to it 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done, so my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im upholding Mr Fs 
complaint in part for the reasons Ive given. However Ill respond to some of the points SIS 
and Mr F have  raised following my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN792077812Id first like to reassure the parties that while  I wont be responding to every single point 
made, I have  carefully considered all that has been  said. Specifically I dont intend to 
respond to every question, comment and argument SIS has made regarding Adviser B. To 
do so wouldnt be appropriate. Its clear to me SIS feels strongly that Adviser  B didnt fulfil its 
responsibility to Mr F. However the purpose  of my decision is to decide/respond  to Mr Fs 
complaint against  SIS. While a consideration of Adviser Bs actions forms part of this it isnt 
the focus. It remains Mr Fs decision whether he chooses to take up any issues he has with 
Adviser B. I wont  be passing any comment on this.
Turning now to Mr Fs complaint against  SIS. For simplicity Ive summarised SIS and Mr Fs 
relevant points in response to my provisional decision below and provided my responses 
following this.
SIS never received the £2,000 advice fee it shouldve received following  Mr Fs 
transfer
SIS says it never received the £2,000  advice fee it was due following the completion of Mr 
Fs transfer. It has explained that this is because the advice fee couldnt be paid to it once 
Adviser B had Mr Fs servicing  rights and client authorisation  transferred  back  to it. SIS says 
Provider Z said the easiest way to resolve the matter was for it to pay Adviser B the £2,000 
fee and for Adviser B to then pass  this onto SIS. SIS says this hasnt happened. I dont think  
this is relevant to Mr Fs complaint however. If SIS has an issue with the fact that it hasnt 
received the fee it shouldve for Mr Fs transfer  this is something it will need to take up with 
Adviser B and Provider Z.
SIS says Adviser B rushed through the process of Mr Fs client authorisation and 
servicing rights being transferred back  to it. And this is the reason it wasnt able to 
review Mr Fs transfer as it ordinarily wouldve
I acknowledge what SIS is saying  here,  but Im also mindful that I havent been provided  with 
any evidence to support  this claim.  But even if I were to accept that Adviser B did rush 
through the process of Mr Fs client authorisation and servicing rights being transferred back  
to it and that this meant SIS wasnt able to review Mr Fs transfer as it ordinarily wouldve 
done, I still dont  think this absolves  SIS of its responsibility to ensure Mr Fs transfer and 
subsequent investments had been  carried out correctly. As I said in my provisional decision:
SIS was aware  at the outset that the servicing of Mr Fs SIPP would transfer back  to Adviser B once it had completed the 
transfer as agreed. Indeed this was confirmed in SISs  Engagement letter to Mr F at the outset. So Im not persuaded by its 
argument that it couldnt check  Mr Fs transaction had gone through correctly  because servicing was transferred to Adviser  B 
before it had a chance to carry out the review it usually  does two weeks after a transfer. 
SIS should have made specific arrangements to check Mr Fs funds  were invested correctly before responsibility was passed  to 
Adviser B. I dont think it was appropriate for SIS to simply expect  Adviser B to check that it had carried out the transfer 
correctly.
My position  on this remains the same.  And if, as SIS says Adviser  Bs actions meant it 
wasnt able to carry out the review it would ordinarily have done on Mr Fs transfer, I think it 
had a duty to make  Mr F or Adviser B aware  of this. Had it done so, arrangements could 
potentially have been made  for the transfer to have  been checked  by Adviser  B earlier  than 
the review meeting that wasnt scheduled to happen  until June 2016. 
SIS says Mr Fs financial  losses should  be calculated  from 4 January 2016 (the date 
the transfer was completed) up to when Mr F received  Provider Zs April 2016  
Portfolio Statement
Ref: DRN792077813Regarding this SIS has specifically  said:
The Ombudsman clarifies  that Mr F both received and read a pension valuation  issued by [Provider Z] in April 2016.   The 
Ombudsman confirms that the information contained  within the [Provider Z] statement was presented fairly clearly for Mr F, 
specifically confirming:-
Ive carefully reviewed the statements and given their contents I think  its arguable that Mr F should have noticed the money 
from the transfer was in cash
The whole paragraph effectively states that Mr F had the information at the time to confirm that his pension  was not invested,  
as per the advice he received  in writing only three  months prior.  This admission is in line with our original response  in which we 
suggested that:
a. [Adviser  B] should have checked  the clients pension upon transfer back to their agency  to ensure everything  was in 
order.  And;
b. Mr F was in receipt of information making  him aware of the error  on his pension in April 2016 via the valuation and 
could/should have  acted at that point.   A simple  call to his adviser would have led to matters being  resolved.
This is compelling  information that suggests that SISs period of liability should have been significantly shorter  than has been  
proposed by the Ombudsman  (4 January   30 June, 2016).
Ive thought about what SIS has said but I still think the period over which  the losses  SIS is 
responsible for should be calculated is 4 January 2016 until 30 June 2016. Ill explain why. 
SIS is correct to say that in my provisional  decision I said it was arguable that based  on the 
April 2016 statement Mr F received from Provider  Z that he should have noticed the money 
from his transfer was in cash. But this isnt the same as me concluding with any degree of 
certainty that Mr F wouldve noticed the error when he received the statement. I find Mr Fs 
testimony that he didnt  completely understand the statement along with the fact that hed 
appointed two financial advisers  to help him through the transfer, investment and ongoing  
advice process, compelling.
I also think that if Mr F had noticed  the error when he read his April 2016 statement, he 
wouldve complained  about the matter in the same way he did when it was brought  to his 
attention in the review meeting he had with Adviser B in February 2017. The fact that Mr F 
didnt suggests  to me that the April 2016  didnt alert Mr F to the error  and so it wouldnt be 
fair to say his losses should only be calculated up until he received the statement in April 
2016. 
What I feel I can say with certainty however is that there was a point in time when Mr F was 
scheduled to have his review meeting with Adviser B. And because the error was identified  
when Adviser B did eventually manage to meet with Mr F, I think  its reasonable to conclude  
the error  would have  been identified by it had the review meeting occurred as it shouldve on 
30 June 2016.  
Because of this, my decision remains that SIS is responsible for any financial loss Mr F has 
suffered as a result  of his SIPP funds not being  invested correctly from the date Mr Fs SIPP 
received his OPS  funds  (4 January 2016) until 30 June 2016 when he shouldve had his 
financial review with Adviser  B and been  able to take corrective  action. 
Mr F feels £500 compensation  for trouble and upset caused would be more 
appropriate in the circumstances
I appreciate Mr F feels a much  higher  level of compensation is due to him for trouble and 
upset caused  by what happened. But I havent  been  provided with anything  that persuades 
me to deviate from the £100 I originally  said SIS should pay him in respect of this. I should  
say that I must also have  regard for the fact that while SIS was responsible  for the principal 
Ref: DRN792077814error, Mr F is also partly to blame  for the length  of time it took for the error to be identified- in 
it wouldve  been identified  in June 2016  as opposed  to February  2017  had Mr F not delayed 
his review meeting  with Adviser  B.
In conclusion, having carefully considered the matter again  I think Strategic Investment 
Solutions Ltd should make good any financial loss Mr F has suffered on the basis I outlined 
in my provisional decision.
In addition, I also direct Strategic Investment Solutions Ltd to make a payment to Mr F of 
£100 for the trouble and upset he has suffered.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  Strategic 
Investment Solutions Ltd to pay Mr F the redress due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7920778