K820x#14complaint
M Ltd complains that HDI Global Speciality SE (Global) acted unfairly  and unreasonably in 
refusing to help it pursue a claim for uninsured losses, following a fire at its business 
premises. It wants Global to pay for solicitors to deal with the claim.
background
M Ltd suffered  a fire at its business premises in 2014, which  it appeared to be caused  by a 
faulty item which shouldve been recalled by a third party, E. It had a number of insurance  
policies taken out through a broker; it held a legal expenses insurance  policy  with another 
insurer, while it held a retail insurance policy with Global (which covered things such  as 
business interruption  cover,  employers liability cover and premises cover).
Following the fire, Global  arranged for a panel solicitor to act on its behalf  (as well as M Ltd) 
to recover the insured  losses from E. But not all of M Ltds losses  were insured, such as 
some of the lost income from the business  it said it lost due to the fire (the income M Ltd said 
it lost after October 2015 due to lost clients) and increased future insurance premiums. While 
the solicitors were dealing  with the claim against E, Global paid for a forensic  accountant to 
report on the lost income  issue  as a gesture of goodwill (having initially  refused). But in July 
2017, the solicitors  refused to continue  to act to recover the uninsured  losses as the 
evidence of the forensic accountant was that there  was little loss of income after October  
2015. M Ltd disagreed and said its claim was worth more than the forensic accountant 
believed.
M Ltd complained to Global. No final response  letter was sent. 
M Ltd complained to us. The investigators  view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She noted that there was no legal  expenses insurance under the policy  with Global,  and it 
was only required to deal with the losses which it insured.  Anything else was uninsured  
losses and had to be dealt with by M Ltd itself.  The investigator  said Global had paid for a 
forensic accountants report as a gesture  of goodwill to help with the uninsured  losses claim, 
but didnt have to do more  to deal with that issue. She pointed  out that the insured losses  
had been dealt with and the solicitors had told M Ltd in July 2017 that they couldnt help 
further. 
The investigator accepted that Global couldve been  clearer  about the situation and that the 
solicitor couldve been clearer that M Ltd needed to find its own solicitor earlier, but said it 
made no difference to the outcome. She said that M Ltd wouldve still have made a late 
claim to its actual legal  expenses insurer if it had done so in July 2017  and didnt contact this 
service for another 18 months. The investigator said that Globals payment of the forensic 
accountant was likely  to have exceeded  any compensation for trouble and upset shed 
award and so nothing further was required.
M Ltd disagreed. It remained of the view that its claim was worth  more than the forensic 
accountant had said and that it wasnt told the legal fees for the uninsured losses claim 
wouldnt be covered  by Global. M Ltd said its complaint about related matters  to a third party  
should be considered with this one, but the investigator explained that the two issues didnt 
need to be dealt with together.
Ref: DRN78966532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Global has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I can only look at the 
actions of Global,  and not the solicitors or the broker.  And I cant  resolve the issue  of 
whether M Ltds claim is worth as much as it believes as thats outside the scope of this 
services remit.
Its important to point  out that the retail  insurance M Ltd had with Global was a commercial  
insurance policy, and taken out through  a broker; it was the brokers role to explain the policy  
and ensure that it was suitable.  Global  set out clearly what  the policy  covered,  and it does 
not include legal expenses insurance.  M Ltd had such cover  from another  insurer.  So its not 
unfair or reasonable in my view for Global to refuse  to give M Ltd legal expenses insurance 
as that wasnt part of the policy.
M Ltds  point is that it wasnt told it didnt have  legal expenses insurance; I disagree. The 
policy set out clearly what was covered and M Ltd and the broker had the details of its legal 
expenses insurance  policy  with the other insurer. M Ltd also complains  that neither Global 
nor the panel  solicitors  told it that it didnt have  legal expenses insurance. Im not persuaded 
that insurers and solicitors are required to tell businesses such information when the policy 
and the broker  has set out what is covered by what policy.  Its fair and reasonable to expect 
a business to understand and read the policies  it holds.
And I note that the solicitors didnt promise M Ltd to act on its behalf in relation to the 
uninsured losses  from the evidence available  to me. I see the solicitors  repeatedly  told M Ltd 
they were dealing with the insured losses, and this issue wasnt  going to be progressed until 
the insured losses  were  resolved. I accept the solicitors did explain the situation about  
uninsured losses  to M Ltd, and were willing  to include such losses  in the claim Global was 
making against E; presumably this was because there was little additional legal fees incurred 
in doing so. 
The evidence shows Global initially refused to fund the costs of the forensic accountant, the 
expert needed to assess M Ltds lost income claim. Its not entirely  clear  why it later agreed  
to fund the cost,  though I see M Ltd was told at the time this was a gesture of goodwill. Did 
this give rise to an expectation  that all future  legal  costs  for the uninsured losses  would be 
covered by Global? I dont think so as no such assurance was given by Global or the 
solicitors and the resistance to paying  the forensic accountant costs highlighted to M Ltd that 
it wasnt part of the cover covered by Global. 
Critically, in July 2017 the solicitors explain that they wont continue  to act because  M Ltd 
refused to accept the evidence of the expert  forensic accountant. This is a professional  
conduct matter, and something  which  I cant  deal with as Im not dealing with the actions of 
the solicitors. M Ltd by this point  hadnt  contacted its legal expense insurers (despite the 
solicitors making it clear that uninsured losses werent covered by Globals policy)  and didnt  
contact this service for another 18 months.  
Ref: DRN78966533Taking everything into consideration, I think Global couldve explained the position  better  to 
M Ltd, who appears to have been somewhat confused, but I dont think  it ever mis-led M Ltd 
into thinking all legal  work arising from the fire was covered by its policy.  And I agree that the 
costs of the forensic accountant (which are likely  to be significant) exceeds the 
compensation I would  normally  consider awarding  for the trouble caused to M Ltd due to this 
failure (I wouldnt normally award compensation for upset to a limited company as it cant 
feel emotion).
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M Ltd to accept or reject  my decision  before 
20 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7896653