K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Octopus Investments Limited has continued charging him for 
discretionary management services  on a portfolio he wanted to encash  in 2014.
background
Mr C transferred his enterprise  investment scheme (EIS) portfolio to Octopus  in October  
2011. It continued taking the same fees as his previous account manager but the general 
terms and conditions were aligned to match other Octopus  EIS investments.
In 2014 Mr C told Octopus he wished to exit from the EIS fund but this hasnt proved 
possible due to liquidity  issues.  In July 2016  Mr C received  a letter  from his previous account 
manager, saying  it would  no longer charge fees on his EIS portfolio given the funds were  
frozen; this turned  out to be an error  as it was no longer his account manager.  But Mr C 
complained that Octopus  should also have cancelled the ongoing fees as it couldnt carry out 
his wish to exit the fund and encash his money.
Octopus said it was entitled to continue charging portfolio management fees on Mr Cs 
remaining investment  irrespective of the approach adopted  by his previous account  
manager.
An investigator at this service did not feel Mr Cs complaint should  be upheld,  and for the 
reasons given by Octopus.
Mr C did not agree, saying:
When he switched his investments to Octopus in 2011 he was told the terms and 
conditions would  stay the same
In his original account managers letter of 2016 it stated that fees would stop at the 
point of a closure request; there is no caveat covering illiquid  investments that cannot 
be encashed
This term/condition therefore applies to Octopus
The investigator did not agree, saying that EIS investments could only held on a 
discretionary basis so could not be converted, as it were, to execution-only  where no 
ongoing fees applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to stress that this services role is to assess whether a business has 
clearly done something  wrong and, crucially, judging  this by the standard  of what  seems fair 
and reasonable.
In many cases this results in an ombudsman  concluding that while  a business has stuck  to 
the terms and conditions - such that a claim in a civil court could not succeed   it has not 
acted fairly  or reasonably.
Ref: DRN71677652In this case, I accept  that Mr C points to a potentially  grey area re the two sets of terms and 
conditions although  the evidence is not, in my view,  definitive. Nor do I think it is clear from 
the original account  managers mistaken  letter of 2016 that Mr C could have continued 
holding his EIS with it and not pay charges after any failed redemption request.
Ultimately, I dont believe Octopus has acted unfairly or unreasonably.  Mr Cs EIS 
investment remains active through no fault of Octopus and it continues to 
manage/administer it, albeit without any ability to carry out Mr Cs wishes. So I think it is 
entitled to continue charging  portfolio management fees on what  is an investment that can 
only be held via an advisory business.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7167765