K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr S says American Express Services Europe  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he didnt know he had PPI and he wouldnt have chosen the policy if he was 
made aware of it. American Express has given me a copy of the signed postal 
application Mr S completed in 2000.  This had a separate section for PPI that said please 
enrol me in the [PPI].  Mr S ticked this section to agree  to take out the PPI, and in my 
opinion it was clear  he couldve  left it blank if he didnt want it. On balance,  I think  
American Express made it clear that Mr S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out.
American Express didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed  to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr S didnt have any sick pay or savings  available to him at the time of the sale. The 
policy couldve covered  Mr S for up to 24 months  per claim if he was too ill to work, had 
an accident or was made redundant. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means American  Express doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to     
Mr S.
But American Express will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because American  Express didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN75498722what the business needs  to do
American Express has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. American  Express should also pay back to Mr S any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the 
difference between  what  Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  if he paid off their credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7549872