K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Gefion Insurance A/S handled his motor insurance claim unfairly. 
background
Mr D had a commercial motor insurance policy with Gefion.  In 2018 he had an incident with 
another vehicle.  So there  was a claim on his policy. Hes unhappy about how Gefion handled 
it. His reasons include  - it taking too long to seek information that show he wasnt at fault, 
applying an excess and how much  has been paid for repairs to his vehicle.  
In response to his complaint Gefion said it hadnt done anything  wrong.  Our adjudicator  said 
it had acted fairly and reasonably. He didnt  recommend it should do anything differently. 
Mr D didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Gefion  do 
anything differently.
Mr Ds says Gefion didnt  do enough to collect information that might have helped  show he 
wasnt at fault for the incident  it wasnt quick enough to seek  CCTV footage  or get a 
witness statement. Its possible it could have sought  those  a little earlier. But it seems  the 
insurer of the other vehicle has now accepted its policyholder was at fault. So any delay in 
seeking the information doesnt seem to have resulted in Mr D being found  to be at fault 
unfairly. I havent seen  enough to make me think it caused him to lose out in any other way.
Gefion hasnt paid him for repairs made  to his vehicle according to Mr D. But I can see it 
paid the repairing garage directly.  Theres  nothing  unreasonable or unfair about that.  
Mr Ds also unhappy with the amount Gefions paid. The repairer provided an invoice for 
about £2,000. But Gefions only paid it £700. Mr D says hes being  chased for the balance. 
Gefion says it authorised  repairs  costing only £1,200.  And Mr Ds had work done it didnt 
agree to. Gefion applied  an excess  of £500.  Thats why its paid the repairer only £700. That 
all seems reasonable to me.
 
Mr Ds policy  document  says even if an incident  isnt his fault an excess will be applied  to a 
claim. The policy schedule lists the excess for accident damage  as £850. Gefion seems to 
have used a lower figure. So I cant say Gefions treated Mr D unfairly by applying a £500  
excess.
The invoice includes almost £700 for a repair to a sliding door. Gefion  says it didnt agree to 
cover that  it says that wasnt damaged in the incident. Based on what Ive seen I dont 
think it was. Soon after the incident  Mr Ds chosen  repairer provided an estimate of repairs  
its the same  one that did the work and invoiced for £2,000. In the original estimate theres  
no mention of damage to the sliding  door.  And Gefions engineers report, from a couple of 
months later, doesnt mention it either.  
Ref: DRN79865992Mr D hasnt explained why the door wasnt originally considered  to be damaged in the 
incident but is now. So based  on what Ive seen I cant say Gefion should  cover the cost of 
repairing it. 
The sliding door and excess explains most  of the difference  between  whats been  paid and   
what Mr D feels  should be. There is a further  small  difference.  Gefion say it only authorised 
repair to a front passenger door  but Mr D has invoiced for a more costly  replacement. 
Gefions engineers report say the door can be repaired. Mr D hasnt provided anything to 
explain why the door was replaced, rather than repaired. So based on what  Ive seen I cant 
say Gefions acted  unfairly by refusing  to pay for that the extra  cost.
 
So Gefion seems to have settled the claim fairly  and reasonably.  And Im not going to make 
it pay any extra for the repairs or do anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Gefion Insurance A/S pay any extra  for the 
claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986599