K820x#14complaint
Mrs P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  she was mis-sold  
critical illness cover by Phoenix Life Limited.
background
Mrs P was sold critical illness  cover on a whole of life basis  in 1998. In 2019 her CMC 
complained that this hadnt been suitable,  which Phoenix Life accepted.
Given what was recorded in the fact find completed at the time, Phoenix Life proposed  that 
Mrs P be compensated on the basis that it wouldve been more suitable  for her to have  been  
sold a 23-year term critical illness  policy providing £50,000 of cover  to match  the term of her 
mortgage.
However, a comparison  of the costs showed that the refund due to Mrs P would be less than 
the current surrender  value of the actual  policy  shed been sold.  So shed incurred no loss. 
The CMC didnt accept  this. It felt the term of the alternative policy  should  be based on when 
Mrs Ps son would have become independent  10 years.  So, it referred the complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator was of the view that there  was nothing  in the documentation from the time of 
the sale to support that Mrs P had only wanted cover for the more  limited 10 year term. So 
he accepted that Phoenix Lifes proposed compensation was reasonable. 
The CMC didnt agree, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
While Mrs Ps son was noted as a dependant/important person in the fact find there was no 
indication that her need for cover was limited to when he might become independent. As 
such, I think that if a whole of life policy wasnt a suitable means  by which  to provide her with 
cover then the term identified by Phoenix Life seems reasonable.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166410