K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy during a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage balance  and other  related expenses in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  
it cost £12.65 a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as an engineer.  He has told us he was entitled  to a death  in 
service payment but it doesnt appear  he would be entitled to any sick pay (other  than 
statutory sick pay) and he didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage  should he 
be unable to work. Mr C has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
The mortgage application form shows that Mrs C wasnt working at the time.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN74930382The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN74930383The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
Ref: DRN74930384suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are options to tick to accept  or 
decline to take out the cover. The yes box has been ticked and Mr C has signed next 
to the tick to confirm  the selection. I can also see that a cross  has been placed  in the 
no box with Mrs Cs signature  next to it. I think this shows that Mr and Mrs C wanted 
to take out the cover  but for Mr C only  not Mrs C as indicated with her signature next 
to the cross. They have  also signed  the overall application which  suggests  they agreed  
with everything that had been entered. 
Ive also seen Mr C completed  and signed a separate  PPI application form. This 
detailed information  such as the monthly benefit  and cost of the premium, along with 
recording responses to some questions about  his employment and health. If 
Mr and Mrs C didnt want the cover, they could have left the form blank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs C disagree. Looking  at what  
Halifax says happened  when it sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, I think  it did provide advice.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Looking at the PPI application form which was completed, it would suggest Halifax took 
some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs C. On the form it asks some information about Mr Cs employment and if he had 
any medical conditions.  The adviser would have  had some limited information  about 
Mr and Mrs Cs financial circumstances from the mortgage application, but there  is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr and Mrs C had a 
need for the policy  by asking questions about their wider  circumstances such  as existing 
means. So I dont  think  it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN74930385While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  Mr C would only have  received statutory 
sick pay if he was unable to work  due to illness, any potential redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they have  told us they didnt have any savings they could 
fall back on. The policy would  have helped Mr and Mrs C manage the consequences 
if Mr C was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
There was nothing  about Mr Cs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided valuable  cover  given: Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, the fact the 
policy protected the mortgage repayments relating  to their home and the potential  
consequences should Mr and Mrs C be unable to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because the mortgage  application described the cover as 
Accident, sickness and unemployment  insurance  and the separate  PPI application included 
information about the monthly benefit and the premium. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs C all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN74930386Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to Mr and Mrs C. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs C. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs C suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out the policy,  had Halifax  done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs C have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs C would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN74930387return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs C had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr C was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs C were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr C knew  about or should  have known  about or for which  he had received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date of the policy and which recurred within 24 months of that start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his own job, any similar  job or any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  unless  Mr C had been in continuous  
employment for 12 months prior to the unemployment; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr C was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr C wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN74930388I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs C might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs C from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs C, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs C had known Mr C could only claim for disability if he was unable to do his job, 
any similar job or paid work which, in the insurers  view, his experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him to so, it might have  played  into their thinking  about what  they would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mr C was unable  (through disability) 
to carry on his own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  if Mr C hadnt  been in continuous employment 
for 12 months prior to the unemployment leading to the claim. But I dont think  this would 
have affected  Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take out the policy.  I say this because  Mr C had 
been employed continuously  with the same  employer  for over a year prior to taking out the 
PPI. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs C would have thought  it likely  that Mr C would  have a break  
in his employment which would have meant they would be unable  to make a claim.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs C would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN74930389Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs C found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN749303810Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7493038