K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs G aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. Mrs G has told us she took her card to gain a discount  on her purchases  
and PPI wasnt mentioned  to her. I cant know for certain what  was said at the time Mrs G 
applied for her card and PPI but FICL  has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork.  
Mrs Gs application form had a separate section for PPI where  the option to take the policy 
was selected.  The form has also been  signed in agreement  with the selections that were 
made on it. With this in mind I think its more  likely  FICL  made it clear  that the PPI was 
optional and that Mrs G chose to have it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from her partner. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Gs sick pay, and for longer. The PPI would also have 
allowed Mrs G to keep her savings in place to be used towards any other essential expenses  
she may have had. And while  Mrs Gs partner  would have wanted to help, their ability  to 
would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time,  which  could have changed. 
So I dont  think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN74750692Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7475069