K820x#14complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with how Nationwide  Building Society handled  her claim for a refund under 
section 75 for some  furniture she bought using her credit card.
Mrs Js husband has represented  her on this complaint and has made various comments on 
her behalf.  But to keep things simple,  I will only refer to Mrs J in my decision.
background
Mrs J ordered some pieces of furniture from a retailer I will refer to as B for £1,150 in 
November 2017.  She paid with her Nationwide credit card and later received a £50 refund - 
as she thought shed been  overcharged.  The furniture was delivered  in December 2017. 
Mrs J said there were  several issues with the furniture, including  a drawer set arriving  rather  
than a dressing  table  and soft close hinges  missing.  Mrs J also said B damaged paintwork 
and wallpaper  in her house when it delivered the furniture.
B ordered the dressing  table to replace the drawer set and this arrived  in February 2018. 
Mrs J is unhappy with this delay. When it was delivered, B left the dressing  table  in Mrs Js 
garage rather than taking it into the house and it didnt fully assemble the furniture or unpack 
it. Mrs J is unhappy with this. She also said this replacement  piece of furniture was damaged 
when it arrived.
Mrs J asked Nationwide for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Rights Act 1974. 
She also asked for a chargeback.
Nationwide said it hadnt seen proof  that the furniture or Mrs Js property was damaged by B, 
so it wouldnt provide a refund. And it said Mrs J hadnt paid for the soft close  hinges or 
delivery, so it wasnt responsible for any issues here. Nationwide said in order to instigate  a 
chargeback it would need to see proof  Mrs J had attempted to resolve  things directly  with B 
and that the goods had been returned.
Mrs J remained  unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator upheld 
the complaint  in part. She said she didnt think it was likely B had damaged Mrs Js property, 
or supplied  a damaged piece of furniture.  She said she didnt think the delay  in ordering the 
correct piece of furniture had disadvantaged Mrs J. But, she did say she thought it was a 
breach of contract that the furniture hadnt been supplied with soft close  hinges fitted. She 
said Nationwide should pay Mrs J £150  to allow this to be put right. 
Nationwide disagreed. It said the soft close hinges  werent fitted because of difficulties with 
the first delivery. Mrs J also disagreed. She accepted £150  for the issue with the hinges was 
reasonable. But she still said B had damaged the furniture and her property. And she said 
she was still unhappy  with the delay  in getting  the replacement piece of furniture. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs J and Nationwide  a provisional  decision on 8 March  2019. This explained that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint.  My findings from this provisional decision were  as 
follows:
Ref: DRN72746402When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. Section 75 of 
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 is relevant  to this complaint. This says in certain 
circumstances, the borrower  under a credit  agreement  has an equal right to claim  against  
the credit  provider if theres  been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services.  
Mrs J said B damaged her house,  delivered  damaged furniture, didnt complete delivery to a 
room as agreed, took an unreasonable amount of time to deliver a replacement piece of 
furniture and supplied  furniture that wasnt fully functional. If B was responsible  for any of 
these issues, I may consider this to be a breach of contract.  So, I need to decide if I think  
this is likely.
damage to Mrs Js property
Mrs J said B damaged paintwork and wallpaper when it initially  delivered the furniture.  Ive 
thought very carefully about everything Mrs J has told us about this, including that her house 
was redecorated  shortly before the delivery. Ive considered the photos shes sent in. And 
Ive also noted  that Mrs J didnt mention this in an email to B when she described the 
missing furniture.
Thinking about  all of this, I just havent seen  enough  to make me think  its more likely than 
not that this damage was most likely  caused by B.
delivery issues
Mrs J is unhappy with the delay in delivering the dressing table. I appreciate  it mustve  been 
frustrating for Mrs J to discover B had delivered an incorrect piece of furniture. And I 
appreciate that the eight weeks it took to replace it is not a short  amount of time. But, B left 
the original piece of furniture  with Mrs J to use while it organised the replacement.  
I think delivering the wrong item could be a breach of contract. But, I think  B took appropriate 
steps to put things right  it left Mrs J with a temporary item while it re-ordered the correct  
item. And although  there  was a delay in that coming, it wasnt an unreasonable timeframe  for 
furniture delivery in my view. So, thinking about whats  fair and reasonable, I dont think  
Nationwide need  to do any more in respect  of this issue.
Mrs J thinks the replacement  piece  was only ordered at the end of January because she 
chased B up about it. She thinks if she didnt chase  them, it never wouldve been replaced. I 
cant say for sure what happened here.  But, the replacement  was ordered and delivered. So 
either way, this doesnt change my opinion.
Mrs J is also unhappy that B wouldnt deliver  the replacement dressing table to a bedroom  
as agreed  it instead left it in Mrs Js garage for her to move.  B said it did this because of 
the allegation of damage Mrs J said it caused  to her property during the previous delivery. 
Thinking about  this, I dont think B acted  unreasonably by not taking the furniture into the 
house and fully assembling it. And in any event,  even if I did think this had amounted to a 
breach of any agreement  between  the parties, it is such a minor issue, Id not ask 
Nationwide to do anything  further  to put things right here.
Ref: DRN72746403damage to dressing table
B delivered  the dressing  table to Mrs Js garage  and left it for her to move. Mrs J then moved 
it to a bedroom.
Nationwide provided  a photo  of the dressing table in Mrs Js garage  before it was moved. In 
this photo, the top of the dressing table  is covered in what  appears to be cardboard.  But, the 
lower part is wrapped  in what appears to be clear plastic. Ive thought about the photos of 
the damage Mrs J has provided.  Ive considered  the size of the chip, its appearance and its 
positon. Having  done so, I think its likely this wouldve been reasonably easy to see through  
the plastic if the damage was there  when  it was delivered. 
Given all that had gone on before, I think its likely  Mrs J wouldve inspected  the furniture  
before moving  it. If Mrs J saw this chip  and I think it wouldve been  fairly obvious on 
delivery - I dont think she wouldve moved the furniture or unpacked it. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs J has said about this, including that she didnt 
inspect the dressing table before taking it to the bedroom. But, taking everything  into 
account, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely that the dressing table was 
damaged on delivery, rather  than being  damaged when it was unpacked and moved.
Ive considered that Mrs J said the dresser wasnt packaged properly to prevent damage to 
it. But, having looked at the packaging, I think it was reasonably  packaged to arrive 
undamaged. So this doesnt change my opinion.
furniture not being fully functional
Mrs J has said there  are various outstanding issues with the furniture. She most recently told 
us: 
five out of six dressing table drawers are too stiff to work  properly,
two out of five drawers  in the five drawer unit are too stiff and the soft close  doesnt  
work sufficiently, 
three soft close hinges are missing from a bedside cabinet  and;
there are no anti-bang or soft close on the wardrobes. 
There is a lack of evidence in this case about  these issues. B told us it believes there are no 
outstanding problems with the furniture. I considered if it would be reasonable for B to go 
and inspect the furniture, but given the breakdown in relationship  I dont think  this is 
practical. So, Ive thought  about what information  I do have, including how consistent Mrs J 
has been when  complaining about  these issues.
Ive considered Mrs Js contact with B, Nationwide and ourselves. Mrs J has been consistent 
that soft close hinges  werent fitted  to a bedside table  and B appears to agree with this. 
Shes also been consistent in initially saying one drawer in the dressing table wasnt  working  
properly. 
B and Nationwide say the soft close hinges for the bedside table were left with Mrs J to fit 
herself. Mrs J said the hinges were  never  supplied. I dont know for sure if the hinges were  
supplied as agreed. But, I am satisfied they werent  fitted. And I think  in normal  
circumstances, Id have  expected them to be.
Ref: DRN72746404I need to think  about  what would be fair and reasonable taking into account all the 
circumstances surrounding  the case. I cant know for sure if B left the hinges with 
Mrs J or not during  the first visit. But, I think its more likely than not that B wouldve fitted the 
hinges when it attended Mrs Js house for the second time - had it not been for the allegation 
of damage from the first visit. Because I think things wouldve been put right by B in normal 
circumstances, and thinking about  everything  that happened, I dont think its fair to ask 
Nationwide to do anything  further  here.
In respect of the issues with the wardrobes or drawer  unit,  I dont think  its likely  that those 
issues were present when  Mrs J got the furniture. I say that because although Mrs J was 
complaining about other  things, she didnt raise  these issues  until almost a year later. And I 
havent seen any evidence to support what Mrs J says about these faults  such  as an 
independent inspection. Even  if there was evidence of these faults  existing, Id need  to see 
something to persuade  me that they arent due to wear and tear or some other damage. But 
based on the evidence that I currently have, Im not persuaded that they were supplied  as 
faulty. 
Ive also thought about the issue with the drawers not fully functioning on the dressing table. 
I think its most likely  that if B had unpacked  the furniture, it wouldve adjusted or replaced 
any drawers that werent working. As Ive explained  above, I think  it was reasonable that it 
didnt do this. But, either way, I again  havent seen evidence to support what  Mrs J says 
about this. For instance, drawers  can be stiff on new furniture  but this doesnt necessarily 
mean they are damaged or not functional. Im also not persuaded that these were faulty. So, 
I dont think Nationwide  should be responsible for this.
chargeback
Mrs J says Nationwide made it as difficult as possible to claim under the chargeback  
scheme and it made unreasonable demands of her to do this. Chargeback is a separate 
scheme that is run by the business that runs the payment network for Mrs Js credit card  
not Nationwide.  This means Nationwide doesnt set the requirements for the scheme. 
Normally two of these  requirements would be that Mrs J had attempted to sort things out 
with B directly and returned the goods  so I dont  think it was unreasonable  of Nationwide  to 
request proof of this before instigating a chargeback. Nor do I think  it was unreasonable  that 
Nationwide didnt offer to pay for the return of the goods to B. I also think its likely, given Bs 
response to the Section 75 claim, that it wouldve defended a chargeback claim. So, I dont 
think Nationwide did anything wrong  when handling  Mrs Js request for a chargeback.  
Finally, Mrs J is also unhappy  with how Nationwide handled her complaint. But, this falls 
outside of this services  remit   so I wont consider this further. In any event, I note that 
Nationwide has already paid Mrs J £200 for any failings related to this.
I gave both parties two weeks  to respond with any further comments  or evidence.  
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add. Mrs J responded with various points for me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should not be upheld. Ill explain why:
Ref: DRN72746405Mrs J made  a number of points in response  to my provisional decision.
Mrs J said that the soft close hinges were part of the package and not free. But, whether 
they were free or not, I still think under normal circumstances B wouldve fitted them.  So, 
either way, this doesnt change my opinion.
Mrs J said that I hadnt asked her for evidence that her house was redecorated  in November 
2017. But, I dont  dispute what Mrs J told me about this. She also said she didnt notice  the 
damage immediately  and was then concerned about informing B, because  some of the 
delivery was outstanding. But, even  taking into account that the property was decorated and 
what else Mrs J said, I still havent  seen enough to make me think its most  likely B damaged 
the property when it delivered the furniture, rather than being damaged at another time.
Mrs J reiterated that she thinks there  was a delay in the business ordering the replacement  
item after the initial delivery.  She said she believes if she hadnt chased  B, the item never  
wouldve been ordered. As I explained  in my provisional decision, I cant  know for sure what 
happened here. But, the item was ordered and replaced. And I still dont think  the time this 
took was unreasonable. So I still dont think Nationwide need to take any action here.
Mrs J said she believes the chip in the dressing table was small.  But, I still think  its most 
likely it wouldve been reasonably clear to see this through the packaging. So it follows  that I 
still think Mrs J wouldve  seen this before she moved the dressing  table  when the furniture 
was delivered if it was present.
Mrs J also sent through a photo of packaging she thought wouldve been  suitable for the 
dressing table. But Ive only considered how her piece of furniture was packaged. I still think 
its most  likely the furniture arrived undamaged. So it follows  that I still think it was packaged  
suitably to arrive in this state.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Mrs J said about the items  of furniture not being 
fully functional and not being  sufficiently durable, including  what she said about the Sale of 
Goods Act 1979 and that she believes furniture should last 10 to 20 years. But, I still havent  
seen evidence to support  what  she says about  the issues with the drawers and wardrobes. 
So Im still not persuaded these items were supplied faulty, or werent reasonably  durable.
Mrs J said she wanted me to consider Bs attitude when it dealt with Nationwide about this 
complaint. But, I dont think this has an impact  on Mrs Js claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 1974, as this wouldnt affect  whether  there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by B. So I havent  considered this further.
Ive thought about everything else Mrs J said in response to my provisional decision 
including what she said about B being  difficult to deal with and that she asked Nationwide  for 
a chargeback. Ive also thought about  what Mrs J said about  Bs reviews online. But, Ive 
only considered  what happened in this particular case  not in Bs dealings with other  
customers. So this doesnt change my opinion. 
Ref: DRN72746406my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274640