K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc wont  pay a claim they 
are making on their personal accident  insurance  policy. 
background
In 1991 Mrs B was unfortunately the victim of a robbery and injured her knee. A few years  
later she successfully claimed on her personal  accident policy  and received a payment of 
around £940 as an interim payment. She told us that she received this payment because a 
medical assessment  concluded shed lost 10% of the use of her knee and it was an interim 
payment because her knee was likely to decline with age.
In March 2017 Mrs B had a medical assessment. The surgeon  concluded  that 10 to 20% of 
her current  knee problems resulted from the accident and 80 to 90 % were  attributable to a 
pre-existing knee condition. Mr and Mrs B wrote to RSA as they wanted to claim for the 
further 10% loss of use of the knee,  which theyve calculated  to be £1200. They explained  
that another  accident policy they had has already paid the additional benefit.
Mr B contacted RSA but didnt hear back from them. So our investigator looked  into what 
had happened. RSA accepted they were responsible for the complaint but couldnt find any 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs policy although they could identify hed been a customer. 
Due to the passage of time they didnt  have any information about the claim. Our investigator 
recommended RSA assessed the claim and paid Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused by not replying  to his correspondence.  
Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators  findings. RSA didnt provide a detailed  response to 
our investigator. They explained they were  struggling to find information  about the policy  and 
the claims history. As RSA didnt  provide  a full response to the investigators view the case  
was referred to an ombudsman to make a decision.  
At my request the investigator asked for more information from Mr B. He provided further 
documents which included a copy of the letter showing a settlement had been  made.  And he 
also provided a letter  confirming the claim was made on the basis  of a 10% loss of use to 
Mrs Bs knee.  This information was shared with RSA and the investigator explained I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. RSA hasnt  responded  to the further  information  provided 
or commented further on the case. 
So I now need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as Im not satisfied thats  what 
has happened in this case.  I say that because:
Ref: DRN71504182Mr B wrote  to RSA explaining he wanted  to make a further claim on the policy 
because his wifes knee had deteriorated  further. He didnt receive a response from 
them. They had to chase up correspondence with RSA and were frustrated because 
they felt they were  being ignored.  So I dont think the claim was dealt with promptly  
and Im awarding compensation of £100  to reflect this;  
Mr B has provided evidence that he successfully claimed on the policy in 1991 and 
received a payment of around £937.  Hes given credible and persuasive testimony 
that this was accepted as an interim payment as Mrs Bs knee condition  was likely to 
deteriorate over time. I think thats plausible given the circumstances which gave rise 
to the claim and the information in the medical report  at the time of the claim. And 
RSA hasnt provided any information  to contradict what theyve said.  So Im satisfied, 
on balance, thats its most likely the settlement  was accepted on an interim basis; 
Theres a medical  report from 2017  which says Mrs Bs knee has loss of use of 
between 10 and 20%. I also understand that shes currently  waiting for a knee 
replacement. So I think its fair that RSA assess  the claim to determine  whether any 
further benefit is due to her in line with the policy terms shes provided. 
putting things right
I think RSA should  put things  right by assessing  Mrs Bs claim against the policy  terms and 
conditions theyve been provided with. They should also pay £100 for the delays in 
responding to Mr and Mrs Bs claim.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and 
directing them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 June 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7150418