K820x#14complaint
Mr W is disputing  the sum that that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited,  trading  as 
Cabot Financial (Europe)  Limited, are asking him to repay. He has complained  that Cabot 
hasnt shown him proof of the amount owing.
background
Mr W had a credit card and, after falling into financial difficulty, Cabot purchased  the debt 
from the credit card provider. While Mr W doesnt dispute that he has an outstanding  
balance on the credit card, he doesnt  agree that its the amount Cabot are asking him for.
Mr W has complained that:
Cabot wont give him documentary evidence of the amount they are asking for, and 
he believes they may be chasing  him for a debt that isnt payable which makes the 
debt unenforceable.
The decision to give him a credit card was unfair  as it was unaffordable and it was 
apparent he was likely to fall further into debt.
Cabot have added charges to the debt,  and have aggressively and unfairly pressured 
him into making payments.
Mr W is being represented  in this complaint by a solicitor.
Our adjudicator found Cabot hadnt done  anything wrong. She felt theyd shown  theyd 
purchased Mr Ws debt from the credit card provider, sent him a Notice  of Assignment to let 
him know this, and were  asking him to repay  the amount he owed the credit  card company. 
While Cabot arent able to provide Mr W with the documentation hes asking for, because  the 
credit card provider has this, the adjudicator  felt this didnt mean that Mr W doesnt have to 
repay the debt.
The adjudicator couldnt see that Cabot had added any charges to the debt,  and there was 
nothing to show that Cabot had been aggressive  in their communication  with Mr W. She also 
said that only a court could decide whether a debt was legally  enforceable and agreed  with 
Cabot that, because they werent responsible for the credit card sale,  Mr W would need  to 
complain to the credit card provider about any irresponsible lending.
Cabot agreed with the adjudicator but Mr Ws solicitors didnt. They feel Cabots inability to 
provide documents and information  in relation to the alleged  debt  is stopping  Mr W from 
resolving his debts, and is having  an effect  on his credit rating.  They also believe  Cabot  is 
purchasing debts without doing  sufficient due diligence  to ensure they are properly due.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79689982Mr W has accepted that he had a credit  card,  and that theres a balance  outstanding. Ive 
seen the amount Cabot is asking Mr W for is the same amount the credit card provider said 
was owed. It isnt the role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service  to decide on what policies 
financial businesses have  in place when they purchase  debt. This is a decision Cabot can 
make in line with its regulator  The Financial  Conduct Authority. Because  of this I wont 
comment on any due diligence. 
Cabot have said that the debt is currently unenforceable,  which  means they cant  take Mr W 
to court.  But they also say it doesnt  mean they cant ask Mr W to make  repayments. Its for 
a court  to decide if a debt is legally  enforceable. Ive seen evidence that Cabot has bought 
this debt from the credit card provider, and Ive not seen anything  to suggest that they cant 
ask Mr W to make payments towards this.
Mr W has said Cabots  actions are affecting  his credit rating, but I havent seen a copy of his 
credit file. Because of this, and as there  are a number of factors that make up a credit  rating,  
I cant say what impact  this may have  had.
I understand Mr Ws frustration that Cabot  cant provide him with the documentation hes 
asked for. This is because  the credit  card provider has this, and hasnt given  it to Cabot. I 
cant expect Cabot to give Mr W something  they dont have and cant  get. If Mr W wants this, 
he might  want  to ask the credit card provider for it. The credit card provider could also 
answer Mr Ws concerns over the fairness of giving him the credit card as this was their 
responsibility. Because of this, I wont be asking Cabot to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  about  Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968998