K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in December 2002. Miss T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in December 2002.  The policy was 
added to Miss Ts credit card account  when  she applied for the card by post.  The policy cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  BOS made it clear that Miss T didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form that Miss T completed more  than 15 years  ago and I can see she 
ticked the section to confirm she wanted PPI before she checked and signed the credit 
agreement.
BOS didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss T got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible  the information BOS gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  she told us she 
was employed  and in good  health  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss T has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss T paid for it. But Halifax has already given  Miss T back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN72939532my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7293953