K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited handled her 
claim under a motor  insurance policy. Ms W also complains that shes paid more  than she 
should have under the policy, that she was incorrectly told she didnt have  legal expenses  
cover and that her personal data was shared with a third party  without her knowledge  or 
consent. 
background
Ms W held a motor insurance  policy with Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited 
(LV). In May 2017, she was involved in an accident  while  driving where she was hit from 
behind and her car was shunted into the car ahead  of her. The other party  who hit Ms Ws 
car admitted they were  to blame to her. So Ms W contacted LV who told her they would  
pursue the third party for payment. 
Ms W says she continually chased LV for updates  as her claim wasnt  being resolved. She 
also says she contacted the other drivers insurer directly who told her that LV hadnt been  in 
contact with them. Ms W tried to get her car insured elsewhere as she wasnt happy with LV 
but she couldnt get this affordably as she had an ongoing claim. Ms W wanted a hire car for 
the time her car was off the road, however LV didnt offer her this as Ms W didnt take this 
particular benefit  out when she took out the insurance. 
LV told Ms W that they would treat the car as a total loss (known as a write-off) as it was 
deemed to be beyond economical repair.  However, Ms W told them  she preferred the car to 
be repaired  and was prepared to pay this herself and claim this back  from her legal 
expenses cover. LV said as Ms W didnt  want to pay her excess it waived 50% of it. But the 
other drivers  insurer  then accepted responsibility for the accident which meant Ms W didnt 
need to pay an excess. 
. 
Ms W complained to LV as she wasnt happy  with their handling of the claim. LV said in 
response that theyd  tried to speak with the other drivers insurer but didnt receive  admission 
of liability until 27 June  2017. LV also said they asked Ms Ws preferred garage for an 
estimate of repairs and only received this back on 19 June 2017. 
In their response, LV gave Ms W three options on how to proceed. These were  for Ms W to 
either:
take the value of the car, which stood at £942,  and allow  LV to dispose of the car; 
take the value of the car, minus the salvage amount, which stood  at £273, and 
arrange for her own repairs to be carried out; or
take the value of the car, minus the salvage amount and continue to drive the car as 
it was still in a roadworthy  condition.
LV says Ms W agreed to the second option and said they would record  the claim as non-
fault and make the necessary adjustments to Ms Ws no-claims  discount  (NCD). LV tried 
to pay Ms W the required amount by BACS but they werent able to do this, which Ms W felt 
was further evidence of LVs poor handling  of her situation. Ms W also felt that LV had 
jumped the gun by trying  to make payment as she hadnt actually agreed to this settlement. 
Ms W instructed her garage to carry out the repairs to her car and they gave her a payment  
to help her get insurance elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN73102862Ms W referred her complaint to us. Our investigator  initially didnt uphold  this. He said LV 
had acted reasonably in trying to obtain  evidence of liability and that they werent 
responsible for the delays Ms W had experienced. He also said LV was entitled to take the 
decision to treat the car as a total loss and that they didnt have to provide a hire car to Ms 
W. And he also felt LV hadnt acted inappropriately by trying to send Ms W a payment as this 
was money owed to her. 
Ms W didnt  agree. She said, in summary, that LV:
clearly delayed contacting the other  drivers  insurer  
passed her details on to a third party in respect  of a proposed hire car without  her 
authority or consent. 
refused to help her under  the legal expenses element of her cover and, in addition,  
she was being  told she wasnt covered
owed her a refund  because her policy had been shortened for 2016/17 without 
explanation
told her new insurers  incorrect information  about her NCD
didnt act reasonably  by claiming they couldnt pay her money by bank transfer.  
Our investigator didnt  feel that LV had acted unreasonably or made any errors  about the 
points Ms W raised. He also mentioned that Ms W had received a final response letter  from 
LV about  the duration of her policy and hadnt referred this to us in time. However, LV in the 
meantime had listened to call recordings between Ms W and the company who manages 
their legal helpline (who Ill call LD). LV felt LD had handled Ms Ws enquiries  about her 
legal expenses cover  poorly and offered  to pay her £100 in recognition of this. Our 
investigator felt this was fair. 
Ms W didnt  accept this would resolve her complaint so asked for an ombudsman to review  
what had happened. So Ms Ws case has been passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 28 November 2018. My provisional findings 
said:
Its clear from Ms Ws detailed submissions that she feels strongly  about  this 
complaint. And its also clear that Ms W has experienced difficulties with her health 
as a result  of the accident. 
Ive read and considered everything Ms W has said. However, I hope that Ms W 
wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues,  
expressed in less detail overall, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point  raised. Instead, its to set out my provisional conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
did LV delay contact  with third parties  to Ms Ws detriment?
Ms W clearly feels very strongly that LV did very little to help her after she initially  
contacted them about the accident. And this included LV not contacting the other  
drivers insurer  to establish  and confirm liability for the accident and not contacting 
her garage about providing an estimate  for repairing her car. 
Ref: DRN73102863Im sorry  to disappoint Ms W but I dont currently agree with her that LV did 
something wrong. Ms W reported what had happened to her to LV on 25 May 2017. 
On 26 May 2017, LV sent an e-mail  to the other drivers insurer asking them  to 
confirm they were accepting liability for the whole  accident. Ive seen a copy of that e-
mail and LVs follow-up e-mail of 9 June 2017 where they chased for a response  and 
made them aware theyd  contacted the insurers  of the vehicle that was in front of Ms 
Ws car. And Ive also seen LVs account history  notes where there  are records  of LV 
calling the other drivers insurer in May 2017 and June  2017. It appears the insurer  
preferred LV to write to them rather than speak over the phone.  
Ms W feels that LVs records arent correct. However, Ive not seen enough to make  
me think LVs evidence isnt a true reflection  of their attempts to establish liability.  I 
think overall LV did what they could appropriately  and frequently  to try to move things 
along. And Im satisfied  that LV acted promptly to contact  the other drivers insurer 
once Ms W had contacted  them about  the accident.  
Im also satisfied that LV did what they could  when Ms W told them she preferred her 
car to be repaired. Ive seen an e-mail  from LV to the garage dated 26 May 2017 
asking for a fully costed  estimate and an e-mail chasing for a response on 14 June 
2017. And Ive also seen  from LVs records that they tried to call the garage to speed 
this up. 
So, overall I currently think  LV did what they could to help Ms Ws claim progress. 
did LV pass Ms Ws personal  details to a car rental  company without her authority or 
consent?
I note that this particular  issue  stems from Ms W asking for a hire car while  her car 
wasnt being used  following  the accident  and when it was being repaired. Ms W didnt 
have hire car provision  included in her insurance  cover with LV. 
I can certainly understand why Ms W wanted a hire car. She explained to us that she 
had a medical need for this to help her buy food. Ive listened to a call recording 
between Ms W and LV where the possibility of using a car rental company to provide 
a hire car was raised. In this particular phone conversation,  Ms W is clearly very 
unhappy with LV and their handling  of the claim. However, LV did explain that they 
would be contacting the car rental company  and Ms W didnt object to this. So I think  
Ms W was aware that LV would be doing  this, although I accept  this may not have 
been what Ms W was focusing on at that time. However, I dont currently think LV did 
pass Ms Ws details  on without her knowing. So I dont think  theyve done anything 
wrong in respect  of this. 
Ms W has mentioned that LV was in breach of the Data Protection  Act. Im unable  to 
investigate or comment on whether there  has been a breach as that is not within my 
remit to consider. Ms W would  need to contact the Information Commissioners Office 
if she wants to pursue this further.  
is Ms W owed a refund?
Ms W says LV cancelled  her policy on 23 June 2017 and it was due to run until 8 July 
2017. So she feels that shes paid a full years premium without getting  a full years  
cover. 
Ref: DRN73102864LV told our investigator they believed Ms W was out of time to refer this part of her 
complaint to us. LV said this was because they sent Ms W a final response letter 
addressing this issue on 9 July 2016 and she didnt refer the matter  to us within  six 
months. Our investigator felt we werent  able to investigate this either.  
We cant look at all the complaints that are referred to us. There  are rules we have to 
follow  regardless of the nature of a complaint or how strongly  someone  feels about 
it. One of those rules  says that, if a financial  business doesnt consent,  we cant  
usually consider a complaint which is referred  to us more than six months  after the 
date the business sent their final response  letter. In this case, LV hasnt consented to 
us looking at this particular part of Ms Ws complaint.  
Ive looked at LVs final response letter. Im satisfied that this related to Ms W 
complaining about the insurance being set up incorrectly. It doesnt  in my view 
address what Ms W has brought to us, namely  that she believes LV owes her money 
for cancelling  her policy before the renewal  date. So I consider that we can look at 
this part of Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W says her policy  stated on 9 July 2016 and LV cancelled it on 23 June 2017. 
And LV cancelling it when they did caused her distress which  meant she had to ask 
the garage who was repairing her car to help her get new cover. 
LV says Ms Ws policy  was set up to start on 23 June  2016 but this was incorrect as 
cover should  have been in place on 24 June 2016. So LV cancelled  the policy and 
refunded the premium  to her. LV also says they set up a new policy  for Ms W on 8 
July 2016 but backdated this to 24 June 2016,  which is when cover should  have  
started.
Ive looked at the evidence, and Im not persuaded that LV did anything  wrong.  Ms W 
has sent us a letter from her insurer prior to LV which says the renewal date for that 
particular policy was 24 June 2016.  So Ms W needed to have  cover  in place from 
that date. LV says they backdated Ms Ws cover to that date and Ive not seen 
anything persuasive  to make me think otherwise. I dont think LV therefore owes Ms 
W a refund.
did LV give Ms Ws new insurer incorrect information?
Ms W has sent us a copy of a letter she received  from her new insurer in July 2017 
which says she was entitled to four years NCD. The new insurer also mentioned that 
Ms W had previously  told them  she had nine years NCD, and that Ms W needed to 
send them proof of this by 21 July 2017  otherwise theyd either increase her 
premiums or cancel her policy.
There are two likely scenarios in my view. The first is that LV gave Ms Ws new 
insurer incorrect information.  The second is that the four years NCD was correct at 
that time because liability hadnt been  established. And with that second scenario, 
the further question would  be whether LV failed to help establish this by not dealing 
with Ms Ws claim reasonably.
Ive not seen enough evidence to make me think that LV told Ms Ws new insurer 
about her NCD. Ive not seen anything in their account history notes to that effect. 
Ref: DRN73102865That doesnt  necessarily  mean that this didnt happen. But its equally possible that 
the new insurer checked this on the NCD database.  So that leaves the second  
scenario. 
Ive already said I currently think LV did what they could to help Ms Ws claim 
progress and that I wouldnt have particularly expected LV to have done anything 
more. So I dont think LV contributed to this particular issue  by poor handling  of Ms 
Ws claim.  And I cant be sure when Ms Ws new insurer checked her NCD and saw 
it was four years. However, Im satisfied that Ms W did receive  confirmation  in good 
time from LV that she had nine years  NCD once theyd established liability. 
So I wont  be upholding this part of Ms Ws complaint as I dont think  LV did anything  
wrong. 
did LV act reasonably in trying to pay Ms W what was owed?
LV tried to pay Ms W a settlement figure  of £705 which  represented the second 
option they offered to her in their final response letter. Ive outlined  what this was in 
the background section of this decision.  LV however couldnt  make the payment by 
BACS so they asked our investigator to see if he could help. It looks to me that LV 
tried to do this on a number of occasions but failed. 
Its difficult to know  exactly why LV couldnt make the payment. LV says the payment 
didnt validate  but they didnt know why. I think though that LV did what they could to 
try to speed  things up. For example, I can see LV tried to set up a CHAPS payment 
on the same  day they realised the BACS payment wouldnt go through.  This would 
have allowed the payment  to have been  made quicker, although  from LVs account 
history notes, it looks like it was too late to process  the CHAPS  payment to credit Ms 
Ws account on the same day. 
However, it doesnt look like LV could get this agreed with Ms W. From what I can 
tell, this was because Ms W feels she had been promised the money  would be in her 
account on the same day LV processed the payment. I dont think  though that LV 
promised that. I think  rather more that our investigator offered to try to get this done if 
LV was able to do so. But I dont think there was any guarantee given  that this would  
definitely happen. I think this is more that both our investigator and LV tried to do 
what they could  to make this happen, however this wasnt ultimately possible 
unfortunately. 
Ms Ws legal  expenses  cover
Ms W had legal expenses  cover included as an add-on  within her insurance  policy  
with LV. Her claim in respect of this is ongoing  at present. I wont  be looking into the 
merits of the claim or how this is being  assessed  as this isnt something thats been 
considered as a complaint by LV. Im specifically looking into what happened when 
Ms W told LV that she wanted to use her legal expenses  cover.  
I can fully understand  why Ms W wants to make use of her legal expenses cover  as 
the accident has clearly  had a great  impact  on her. And Im not satisfied that Ms W 
was treated fairly when she first enquired about  this. From what  I can tell, LV asked 
Ms W to get in touch  with LD who manages  their legal  helpline. 
Ref: DRN73102866However, LD told Ms W on more than on occasion  that she didnt have legal 
expenses cover. This was clearly wrong.  
LV accepts that LD didnt handle this well and by extension I think  this is something 
LV should  take responsibility for. LV has offered Ms W £100 for the inconvenience 
this caused her. I think this is a fair amount. 
My provisional decision was to uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and to require LV to pay her 
£100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. I asked both parties for their 
comments. 
LV didnt provide any further comments.  Ms W disagreed with my provisional findings. She 
said, in summary:
she didnt ask for a hire car
LV didnt  contact  her garage or indeed anyone throughout her claim
she never agreed to the £705 settlement
she didnt want to pay an excess
LV passed her details over to a third party without her consent or authority
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Ms S is still unhappy with what LV has, or in her view hasnt, done. But what  she 
has said in response  to my provisional decision doesnt really  add anything new that she 
hasnt already submitted as part of her complaint  other than her point about asking for a hire 
car. 
I was under the impression having  read the notes  from the adjudicator who spoke  to Ms W 
initially that she needed a hire car while her car was off the road as she had a medical need 
for one. And Ive listened  to a call between  Ms W and the adjudicator  from June 2017 where 
Ms W said she needed a hire car. Thats why I referred to this in my provisional decision and 
why I used that particular terminology. 
I note Ms W says she didnt accept the £705 offered to her by LV. LV says Ms W did accept 
this. Im not persuaded either way that this in itself has led to Ms W suffering financial 
detriment. 
Overall, I havent seen anything which persuades me to depart from my provisional  findings 
(as shown  above). Therefore,  I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and require LV to pay her 
£100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience, for the same  reasons I gave  in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN73102867my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part and direct Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Ms W £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7310286