K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank Plc gave  them incorrect advice to withdraw  funds 
from their investment. Theyve explained that this caused them to suffer a financial loss.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision saying why I didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. I 
invited Mr and Mrs P and Barclays to give me any more  evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays accepted my provisional  
decision and didnt  have  anything further to add. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with my decision,  they said in summary: 
Theyd been led to believe the 5% withdrawal allowance was applicable  to them  as 
they been made aware that it existed and received assurances from the Barclays 
adviser;
They felt the consistent use of the phrase the 5% allowance  meant  that the 
allowance existed,  but that this wasnt actually a feature of the bond and was only a 
UK tax rule;
They felt that when they were  given an actual monetary value of the 5% allowance,  
they had no reason  to doubt it existed,  that it applied to them, or that they needed to 
seek advice on this;
They felt that the Barclays adviser  might not have  known  that the allowance  was only 
a tax rule and therefore not subject to the same rules in Guernsey;
They thought  that they shouldve been  given  a specific warning to seek tax advice 
about the 5% withdrawal allowance when the initial (and each subsequent) 
discussion took place.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  for the same reasons. 
Mr and Mrs P havent given any information  thats materially different to what  Ive already 
seen. But Ive taken  on-board all their points  although Im not going to respond to each 
point individually.  
Theyve said they were  led to believe the 5% withdrawal allowance was applicable to them 
as they were told it existed in the first place, and received assurances from the Barclays  
adviser that it was available. However, Mr and Mrs P have acknowledged numerous  times 
they were aware  that Barclays werent tax advisers  and theyve also confirmed that they 
were told to seek tax advice  albeit  there  is a difference in opinion  of what the advice 
related to. I recognise  that it was potentially misleading of Barclays  to mention the allowance 
Ref: DRN72065642to Mr and Mrs P when it didnt apply to their circumstances. However, both parties  agree that 
whatever the information given to Mr and Mrs P by Barclays,  it was also caveated with the 
guidance that they needed to seek separate tax advice.   
In view of this, ultimately the issue for me to decide is whether Barclays  are responsible for 
the tax charge, and ultimately if its fair and reasonable to ask them  to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs P. And what that really means  in this case, is whether or not it was reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs P to rely solely on Barclays saying there was a 5% allowance  when they 
chose to withdraw from their bond.  I think its worth noting that this is a finely  balanced  case, 
and as their financial  adviser, its natural Mr and Mrs P would place a degree of trust in what  
Barclays have said about their options. But I have  to consider that alongside the other things  
that were said about withdrawing from the bond. 
Mr and Mrs P have  said they feel the bond doesnt have the 5% withdrawal facility and this 
isnt actually a feature  of the bond but only relates to a UK tax rule. Theyve  told us that at 
the outset their tax adviser said this investment should work for them  - but they couldnt  
make withdrawals within the first ten years - and that this information was also sent to 
Barclays at the same  time. However, Ive also seen the bond  does have the facility  to 
withdraw capital without triggering a chargeable event. And the suitability letter given to 
Mr and Mrs P does  say that withdrawals  can be taken  but tax implications  may be different 
and local advice should be sought.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and provisional decision are made  on a 
balance of probabilities - what  is more likely,  than not, to have happened  not on what  
definitely did or didnt happen. I recognise that theres a dispute over the notes from 
Mr and Mrss Ps meeting with Barclays, but I think whats more important is what  Barclays 
told Mr and Mrs P in the content of the email  following this meeting. The email noted that 
Mr and Mrs P could  take money  out, but this was subject to them checking with their tax 
adviser. 
So taking all that into account, I think its reasonable to believe that Mr and Mrs P knew there  
might be tax implications from making a withdrawal and that Barclays had told them  to seek 
local expertise numerous  times. Ive seen that when the withdrawal was being contemplated, 
Mr and Mrs P were  specifically told to speak to a tax adviser. I acknowledge that Mr P said 
he was reassured  on a call with the Barclays adviser  that other clients  had used the 
allowance  but I do think he ought  to have reasonably been aware that this could be 
incorrect because the adviser wasnt able to provide tax advice and also that this was 
different information  to what his tax adviser  in Guernsey had said when  they made the 
investment. So overall I dont think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to rely on what 
Barclays said, and they should have sought separate  advice.  So I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Barclays responsible for the tax liability.         
Mr and Mrs P have  said they felt that when they were  given  an actual monetary value of the 
5% allowance this meant  they were able to use this  not that they needed  to seek  advice on 
this. And that each  time they discussed this, they shouldve been  given a warning. However, 
I have seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs P contacted  Barclays themselves and asked for this 
information to be provided. So I dont think its reasonable  to expect an adviser to end their 
correspondence each  time with a reminder that tax advice should be sought. Ive also seen 
evidence that where  more  detailed follow up information on the withdrawal allowance was 
provided to Mr and Mrs P in a letter from the Barclays  adviser, they were told to discuss  
your options  for extracting  capital  from your bond  with your Tax Adviser. So I dont think  
Barclays have acted  unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs P.
Ref: DRN72065643As I said previously, I recognise that Mr and Mrs P feel strongly  about  this. But based  on the 
evidence Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs P were told to seek tax advice but didnt follow  that  and I 
dont think it was reasonable for them to rely solely on what  Barclays had said.  So in these 
particular circumstances,  I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Barclays  
responsible for Mr and Mrs Ps loss and require them to pay it. 
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision is 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72065644copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank Plc gave them incorrect advice  to withdraw funds  from 
their investment. Theyve explained that this caused them to suffer a financial loss.
background
In early 2007, Mr and Mrs P met with a Barclays  financial  adviser as they wanted to improve the tax 
efficiency of their deposit investment. The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs P should  invest  in 
an offshore bond. However this was recommended  based on Mr and Mrs P having  received 
professional tax advice - as the adviser  wasnt able to offer this - and Mr and Mrs P were resident in 
Guernsey so the tax rules may be different. Mr and Mrs P applied  for the bond in May 2007 and it was 
issued to them in August  2007.  
In June 2013,  Barclays contacted Mr and Mrs P to see if they wanted to withdraw  money  from their 
bond using their 5% capital allowance. Mr P told Barclays that they were  looking at their options and 
would come back to them when theyd made a decision.  In July 2013,  Barclays told Mr and Mrs P that 
they could withdraw up-to 30% of the original  balance  theyd invested tax-free  so they withdrew 
£700,000.
In January 2015, Barclays contacted Mr and Mrs P again to ask if they wanted to use their accrued  
5% allowance  - but they didnt want to use it at that point. In October 2015, Mr and Mrs P decided to 
use £250,000 of the allowance  to help a family  member. Mr P met with his tax adviser  to see if there 
would be any impact  to himself and Mrs P by lending  the money. The adviser then told Mr P that the 
5% withdrawals werent allowed under Guernseys  tax laws and she would need to disclose the 2013 
withdrawal to the tax authority. She also told Mr P that the 2013 withdrawal may mean  that the 
interest and growth  within  the bond  had now become  taxable.  
Mr and Mr P contacted Barclays to complain about what had happened. They said that they hadnt 
been told to seek tax advice  on withdrawals from their bond by the Barclays adviser before making 
them. And that theyd only discussed inheritance tax planning. They  explained that their tax adviser 
was discussing what had happened with the Guernsey tax authority - but they may now incur tax 
liability from the information Barclays had given them. After several months - in May 2016 - Mr and 
Mrs P received confirmation  that if they hadnt made the withdrawal  in 2013 their bonds interest and 
growth wouldnt  have been taxable. So Mr and Mrs P contacted  Barclays to ask for them  to refund the 
tax theyd now have to pay.   
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt  agree that Mr and Mrs P had only discussed  
inheritance tax planning with the adviser. They said that the adviser wasnt able to give Mr and Mrs P 
tax advice  - so hed noted that Mr and Mrs P were seeking tax advice before taking out the investment 
and making  the withdrawal from the bond. They  also said that Mr P had told the adviser  that hed 
sought advice from his tax adviser before making  the withdrawal - and that theyd  confirmed there 
wouldnt be any tax implications on the investment.  Mr P didnt agree so he asked this service  to look 
into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the Barclays  advisers follow up email  after 
the meeting and the meeting  notes from 2013 supported Barclays view that Mr and Mrs P were 
seeking tax advice before  withdrawing funds from their bond. So he felt that it was more likely that this 
was the case.  
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree as they felt that the advisers meeting notes were  inconsistent. They also 
felt that Barclays  shouldve double  checked with Mr and Mrs P that theyd sought tax advice before 
making a withdrawal from the bond. So the case  has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN72065645my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs Ps distress that they will now incur  a tax 
liability on their bond. However,  Ive reviewed  all the evidence available to me at length,  and I think 
that Barclays were clear that they couldnt offer any tax advice so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
tax advice/ conflicting  information
Mr and Mrs P have said that when Mr P met with the Barclays  adviser in June 2013, he didnt talk 
about the tax implications of their bond. And in fact the only tax they had discussed was inheritance  
tax, and what  they were planning for the future. I have noted that Mr Ps reply  email to the Barclays 
adviser also only mentions this.
However, Ive looked at the annual review  documents completed  by the adviser  at the time, which 
details the discussion with Mr P in more detail. The notes say amongst other things that as an option 
Mr and Mrs P could look to use their annual  5% capital  withdrawal allowance  (now 25-30% based on 
the bond  being opened  in 2007)  I cant see that there was any recommendation that they should  do 
this or that this was a preferrable choice to the other options  provided. Ive also looked  at the various 
follow up emails relating  to potential  withdrawals of the available deferred allowances  again, these 
give the possible amounts available to withdraw  not a recommendation  to do so.  
I can see that after the options  have been noted, the advisers comments  say that Rob confirmed that 
his tax advisers in Guernsey have said that he can make these allowable withdrawals without 
triggering any tax charge (as in the UK). And looking at the context of the notes, I dont think  these 
comments seem  out of place  particularly  as they they say that It should be noted that under  
guidance from his tax advisers in Guernsey, he muist retain the offshore bond for at least  10 years,  in 
order to avoid  paying any tax. So I think  that its more likely that the tax implications of the bond were  
discussed, and in particular  that Mr and Mrs P needed  to get separate  tax advice - but due to the 
personal circumstances at the time, and the length of time that has passed,  its understandable that 
Mr P may not remember this. 
Ive seen that when the Barclays adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs P to summarise the meeting notes,  he 
gave the three  options that had been discussed  in their previous meeting. One of these  was as 
follows:
2  Withdrawing some funds from the bond using the accumulated 5% annual capital withdrawal 
allowance, subject to you checking with your tax advisor  in Guernsey that this is fine.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs P said they feel Barclays emails  are contradictory as one mentions  
having received advice from the tax adviser  and the other that they would be checking with the tax 
adviser  and I dont disagree. However, I do think  Barclays made  it clear  from the outset that they 
werent able to offer any tax advice or guidance.  And throughout  the documentation, there are 
references to Mr and Mrs P having a tax adviser  in Guernsey  who deals  with this type of matter for 
them. So I think that the Barclays adviser expected them to discuss any tax implications with their tax 
adviser before making a decision  which is why he noted  on the documentation that Mr P would  be 
reviewing his options  before  making a decision.  
I recognise that Mr and Mrs P feel that Barclays have caused their financial loss by suggesting the 5% 
withdrawal in the first place.  However, as it is a feature of the bond,  I wouldve expected the adviser  to 
have at least  mentioned that this may be an option to them. And I think that when they were   
discussing the further  withdrawal in 2015, the new Barclays adviser  thought the tax liability had 
already been discussed  with Mr and Mrs Ps tax adviser  and it was fine to proceed.  I think  its likely  
this is also the reason that the follow  up emails regarding  future  withdrawals and calculations dont 
mention discussing this with the tax adviser. 
Ref: DRN72065646Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve been aware  that the Barclays advisers 
couldnt offer advice on the tax implications of making a withdrawal and any discussions on this would  
need to have  been confirmed with their own tax adviser. Ive seen that all the documentation relating 
to the bond mentions the UK tax rules - which I think Mr and Mrs P should  reasonably  have known 
they might not benefit from as theyre domiciled in Guernsey. So I dont think its reasonable for Mr 
and Mrs P to say they relied on the Barclays adviser  to highlight the tax liability impact on them for 
any withdrawals  or to remind them to speak to their tax adviser before  taking any action.   
duty of care to customers
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs P feel Barclays had a duty of care to check  if theyd received the tax 
advice that had been  discussed - or if they were going ahead with the bond without seeking that 
advice. And I recognise  that Mr and Mrs P were dealing with several difficult  personal issues at the 
time of the withdrawal. However, Barclays  arent  responsible for checking  that their customers have 
taken tax advice and they dont have to make a note of this on any discussion documents. They  only 
have to make their customers aware that they cant provide this and that it should  be considered 
before proceeding with any recommended investment.  As Barclays advisers are not tax advisers,  I 
dont think its reasonable  for them to decide what  advice Mr and Mrs P should have sought  in relation 
to their investment  as they may not given the right information.  
I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs P as its not the outcome  they were  hoping  for. 
But based on everything Ive seen,  I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept  or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2018.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206564