K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about advice  to transfer his existing personal pension  to a self
invested personal pension (SIPP). The SIPP fund was then invested  in a plot of land and an
unregulated overseas investment scheme.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice 
that was given in connection with the transfer and the steps  taken to facilitate the transfer.
background
Ive considered Mr Ms complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 
2021. Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision. For the reasons I set out I upheld the 
complaint. 
Mr M didnt  want  to comment  further.  Meyados legal representative did make further 
representations which Ive summarised:
Mr Ms decision to open a SIPP and transfer  the value of his pension benefits  was
made with assistance  and advice from a number of entities,  not just HDIFA. Id
continued to ignore the other entities involvement, even though  it was factually
undeniable that other parties were materially involved.
That wasnt fair or reasonable but irrational. Our unwillingness  to look into the
relationship between Mr M and Mr B  who was materially involved in advising Mr M 
to invest in the illiquid investments at the heart of his complaint and (once the SIPP  
was open) was to advise on his planned investments  meant my decision was being 
made in the light of a deliberate choice to exclude relevant matters.  The requirement 
(under FSMA)  to take into account  all the circumstances means the actions of other 
entities with whom Mr M interacted as part of his decision making cant be excluded.
Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities are involved, well disregard all but 
the one at which the complaint is explicitly directed and hold that firm accountable for
all failings, irrespective of where liability should properly lie. Entities are at the mercy
of who a complainant  happens to name on the complaint form and when many
complainants wont  have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities  of
those with whom theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations under FSMA and
demonstrably unjust  to one or more parties.
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Mr Bs 
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence which must have been 
available to Mr B have been unavailable to Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been 
at best incomplete  and Meyados  ability to defend itself has been seriously impaired.
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation. My decision was based  on the
premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement,  the investments  and so Mr Ms losses - 
wouldnt have occurred.  That oversimplifies the true position and failed  properly to
take into account both Mr Ms decision to invest  and that it is the investments, and 
not the SIPP, which are the primary cause of his losses.  The decision also disregards
how Mr M held himself  out to HDIFA.
Meyado also highlighted sections of my provisional decision:
Mr M had already decided to transfer his existing  pension  before HDIFA was
involved. His determination to transfer cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And,
following the transfer, Mr B was to advise on the investment. My decision was
Ref: DRN72760822irrational and relied on speculation. 
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all
evidences irrationality and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In terms of causation  it must  be accepted as a matter  of fact that a party other than 
HDIFA actually advised on the material investment. HDIFA had no involvement  in the 
ultimate decision to invest  in cultivated  land in Argentina. Its difficult, if not 
impossible, properly  to ascribe knowledge  of, and blame for, any investment decision 
made after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when  HDIFA  didnt  and couldnt  have  
had any influence or control  over the ultimate  investments. 
My assertion, that if HDIFA had advised against the transfer  (even though it 
expressly had no involvement  with the specific investment Mr M ultimately chose), 
was conjecture and at odds  with the evidence which strongly pointed  to Mr Ms 
determination not to heed warnings and ignores the reality that he ultimately invested 
in a product in which HDIFA  had no involvement.  And Id disregarded Mr Ms 
assessment of his own investment  experience and attitude to risk.
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt 
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer. As Id 
acknowledged, it was unclear whether Mr B was operating in a regulated capacity. 
Assuming he was I hadnt attempted to deal with that key distinction.
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing
should detract from its sympathy  for Mr M. Hed suffered loss as a result of investing
(on the advice of others) in investments  which had failed.  But my decision failed
properly to appreciate  causation  and reliance issues.  Based on the information wed
considered  or chosen not to consider  the decision  was unfair and unjust in
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mr Ms losses on Meyado  and didnt meet
our obligations  under FSMA. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out 
in my provisional decision,  Ive paid attention to the relevant Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules. Ive also carefully considered Meyados comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of
others and, in particular,  Mr B. I dont agree we havent made sufficient enquiries about that. 
Or that Ive misunderstood or ignored the part played by Mr B such that my decision cant 
properly be said to have  taken into account all the circumstances  of the case  as required by 
FSMA.
The central point  is that Mr M had been  referred to HDIFA for advice about transferring to a 
SIPP. HDIFA may have said it wasnt considering the proposed investments. But HDIFA 
should have known it couldnt  fulfil its regulatory duties to Mr M without looking at the overall  
transaction. To determine  if the SIPP was suitable, HDIFA needed to understand what it was 
going to be invested in.
Ref: DRN72760823Meyado says the regulators 18 January  2013 alert deals with the situation  where  a firm 
takes on a client  from an unregulated introducer, whereas here the referral came from Mr B. 
First, as Ive explained  in my provisional  decision and as Meyado has acknowledged,  what 
capacity Mr B was acting in isnt clear. Its possible he was an unregulated  introducer. If he 
was, Meyado would  presumably  agree that the alert does apply.  
But, even  if the referral had come  from another regulated firm, I dont see that would have 
changed HDIFAs responsibility to consider the proposed underlying  investment.  The 
regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014. Again it didnt follow the introduction of new 
regulations but restated the existing position.  It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. 
I think its clear  that, even if the introduction  had come from a regulated firm (as and Ive said 
its unclear here if it did) HDIFA had to consider the proposed underlying  investment too. 
HDIFA says it didnt  know about the Argentinian  farmland investment.  But, even if thats 
right, HDIFA should have  found out. Any advice about transferring to a SIPP had to take into 
account the proposed investment. 
I dont think the SCS Farmland investment  was suitable for Mr M. And certainly not for 
approaching 40% of his pension fund. Id also refer to what  I said in my provisional decision 
about a SIPP being generally  unsuitable  for Mr M, given his modest pension fund, lack of 
investment experience and that he didnt  have capacity for loss. 
   
Meyados main point  is the involvement  of others  and in particular Mr B. Ive considered  
carefully Mr Bs part in the matter. I acknowledge its possible  he gave investment advice. 
And that might have  been in a regulated  capacity. But even if Mr B (whether in an 
unregulated or regulated capacity)  had advised Mr M in connection  with the investment,  
Mr M was referred to HDIFA for advice about transferring his pension. HDIFA thought it 
could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. As Ive explained, its understanding  was 
wrong: HDIFA needed consider the proposed investments too.
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as its role was pivotal, since the eventual 
investments were wholly contingent  on the transfer  taking  place.  I dont think Mr M should  
Ref: DRN72760824have been advised to transfer to a SIPP  so he could invest about in a plot of land and the 
SCS Farmland investment. But for the transfer  Mr M couldnt have invested as he did. 
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of
where responsibility might properly  lie. I agree a complainant wont  always understand
the different  roles  and responsibilities  where  more than one party  is involved. 
But HDIFAs role was central. I think HDIFA should  have  advised Mr M against  transferring 
in order to invest as hed planned. I think suitable  advice would have been  for Mr M to retain  
his existing pension  arrangement with a major provider invested in a range of mainstream  
funds. 
In my provisional decision I considered carefully what Mr M was likely to have done  if HDIFA 
had told him it couldnt recommend he transfer. That does involve making  some  
assumptions as to what Mr M was likely to have  done. 
Based on what Id seen  and for the reasons I set out I thought Mr M was likely to have gone 
ahead with the transfer to the SIPP so that he could sell the plot of land which he already 
owned to the SIPP  for it to hold as an investment.  I said that was the main driver for the 
SIPP. 
But I thought the position was different in so far as the SCS Farmland investment was 
concerned. That was an unknown for Mr M. Unlike the plot of land he didnt  have any 
personal or vested interest. He was presumably  only proposing to invest because hed been 
told about the investment and that it would do well. If HDIFA had explained  to Mr M that a 
transfer, on the basis he was going  to invest almost 40% of his only pension fund in an 
unknown, unregulated and speculative investment, I thought hed have reconsidered 
whether he should  invest  in that fund. 
I dont think my conclusions about what Mr M is likely to have done if HDIFA had given him 
suitable advice  are irrational or at odds with the evidence. As I said in my provisional 
decision, as things stood, and in the absence of any indication from HDIFA about the risks 
posed by the SCS Farmland investment, Mr M had no real reason to question  whether he 
should go ahead. Thats still my view.  I dont see why hed have been determined to go 
ahead with that investment if hed been  told that it was too risky.  
On that basis (and coupled with the fact that I didnt see that Mr M had suffered any financial 
loss in connection with the plot of land) I proposed  limiting redress to the SCS Farmland 
investment. Mr M hasnt commented  further  or said that he doesnt  accept  my conclusions  
about the plot of land.  Or said that it wasnt the main reason for the transfer to the SIPP.
All in all my views remain as set out in my attached provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd must redress Mr M as Ive set out in my 
attached provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN72760825Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72760826PROVISIONAL DECISION  dated 23 February 2021
complaint
Mr M has complained about advice to transfer his existing  personal pension  to a self invested 
personal pension (SIPP).  The SIPP  fund was then invested in a plot of land and an unregulated  
investment scheme. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd is now responsible for the advice that was given in 
connection with the transfer and the steps taken  to facilitate the transfer.  
background
Heather Dunne, trading  as HDIFA, an appointed representative of Berkshire  Financial Advisers 
Limited, which later became Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) wrote to 
Mr M on 25 January  2012.   HDIFA  said Mr M had been referred to HDIFA by someone Ill call Mr B as 
Mr B didnt have the appropriate regulatory permissions to undertake the business   a pension  
transfer or switch.   
The letter recorded that Mr M had completed and signed (on 23 January 2012) HDIFAs  pension 
review questionnaire, letter  of authority and letter of engagement. HDIFA would gather data and 
undertake research and analysis before  preparing  a formal advice report  for Mr M, setting out 
HDIFAs recommendations about transferring. HDIFAs letter included the following:
In relation to the underlying investments we understand that you have already decided  where you 
wish to invest  your pension fund monies. You have already satisfied yourself  that this investment is 
suitable for your needs  and are not seeking  any further input from ourselves. Therefore  the handling 
of these transactions will not be dealt with by HDIFA.
Please note that we will not be making any comments with regard  to the underlying  
Investments that you have chosen. We accept no responsibility  for your  decision to purchase  
your preferred asset.
There was a declaration attached  to the letter, which  Mr M was asked  to sign and return. Amongst 
other things  it said that Mr B would work closely with HDIFA  and that the agency of the receiving  plan 
would be transferred  from HDIFA  to Mr B to enable him to receive renewal  commission and offer 
advice in respect  of the SIPP monies  in the future. 
I havent seen the suitability letter in connection with the transfer. I think HDIFA may have outsourced 
it to an adviser  with Berkshire Financial Advisers Ltd (as Meyado was at the time known).  But it isnt 
disputed that Mr M was recommended to transfer to a SIPP. Or that HDIFA undertook the transfer. 
On 14 February 2012 £59,971 was transferred  from Mr Ms personal pension to a new SIPP.     
£31,000 was then invested  in a plot of land and £23,000 into Food,  Water  and Energy SA - SCS 
Farmland. I understand thats an unregulated collective investment scheme involving cultivated land 
in Argentina. 
In January 2018, Mr M, through his representative, complained to Meyado. It said the complaint 
should be redirected to HDIFA. Mr Ms representative  replied, pointing out that HDIFA was an 
appointed representative of Meyado and so the complaint had been properly  directed  at Meyado as 
principal. Meyado didnt respond. The complaint was referred  to us. 
When we contacted  Meyado  it said the complaint had been made  too late - more than six years after 
the event complained of. Our adjudicator didnt  agree. He said the complaint had been made by email 
to Meyado on 23 January  2018. Meyado had said the event complained of had taken place on 27 
January 2012. On that basis the complaint had been made within  six years. Even if time ran from the 
date Mr M signed HDIFAs letter  of engagement  23 January 2012  the complaint had still been 
made in time.  
Ref: DRN72760827The adjudicator went on to consider the merits of the complaint.  He thought  the complaint should be 
upheld. Transferring to a SIPP  wasnt suitable  for Mr M. HDIFA had said it wouldnt be commenting 
on the underlying investments Mr M had chosen. And that it accepted no responsibility for his decision  
to purchase his preferred  assets. But the regulators  alert in January  2013 made it clear that suitable 
advice generally required  consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is the wrapper 
and the expected underlying investment which was in an unregulated scheme. Although  the alert post 
dated HDIFAs advice, it represented the position at the time the advice was given  (and so served as 
a reminder to advisers as to the regulators expectations). 
Meyado didnt  accept the adjudicators view. In summary  Meyado said: 
Wed failed to give proper regard to Mr Bs role. HDIFAs  letter dated 25 January 2012  
recorded its understanding  that Mr M had already decided where he wanted to invest  his 
pension fund and he wasnt seeking any input from HDIFA. 
It wasnt a non standard transaction. Emails between HDIFA and Mr B refer to the SIPP 
provider and not the investments about which  Mr M now complains.  He hadnt provided any 
evidence about the decisions concerning  the actual investments  hes complaining  about.  
Statements issued in 2013  and 2016 by the SIPP provider had been referred  to but copies  
hadnt been provided  to HDIFA  and Meyado.  If Mr M is relying on statements issued over four 
years after the advice was given,  issues of causation arise, including  if any intervening 
advice.  
Wed wrongly disregarded information Mr M had given in the fact find  which hed signed  on 
23 January 2012  and, in doing so, acknowledged  that HDIFA would  rely on what  hed said. 
Hed unequivocally categorised himself  as having  a high attitude to risk, confident in taking 
risks, willing to accept investment volatility  and acknowledging that there might be dramatic 
fluctuations in the value  of his investments.  It was inappropriate to seek now to reinterpret the 
answers hed given.  
We hadnt  requested information about the role of and advice given by Mr B. That failure had 
frustrated any possibility of us discharging our statutory responsibility  under the Financial  
Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) to reach a conclusion which is fair and reasonable  in 
all the circumstances.  Meyado pointed to emails showing that Mr M was dealing direct with Mr 
B about his pension  investments.  And HDIFAs letter  of 25 January  2012 referred to Mr Ms 
previous discussions with Mr B. Wed  reached an adverse finding (against HDIFA) without 
properly considering  Mr Bs involvement. That was irrational, illogical and unfair. 
There should be some  apportionment  of compensation.  HDIFA was simply (to its knowledge)  
arranging the transfer because Mr B didnt have the necessary permissions. HDIFA had made 
it clear in writing that it wouldnt be advising on the underlying investments. Its irrational to 
say HDIFA should be held 100%  liable for investments made outside its advice and on 
another partys advice. That incorrect conclusion  goes back to our failure  to consider Mr Bs 
role. 
Full documentary evidence as to advice  given by Mr B about the investments was needed. 
Further consideration should be given to whether Meyado is the proper  respondent to the 
complaint. The award against it should be significantly reduced.  
The adjudicator considered all Meyado had said. But he still thought the complaint should  be upheld.  
He said Mr B was Mr Ms initial contact. But Mr B had referred  the matter to HDIFA. Mr M had every 
right to expect  suitable advice from HDIFAs adviser. The suitability of the transfer could only be 
considered after proper consideration had been given to the proposed underlying investments. 
Whatever Mr M had discussed with Mr B should have been considered in terms of its suitability by 
HDIFAs suitably qualified adviser. 
Meyados position remained that there was no proper basis to hold it liable for any losses that might 
have arisen.  Meyado also said it couldnt undertake a loss calculation without evidence  as to the 
actual performance of the investments. At least two SIPP statements had been referred  to but hadnt 
been disclosed. Meyado  reiterated what it had said about Mr Bs involvement.
Ref: DRN72760828As agreement  couldnt be reached, the adjudicator told the parties  that the complaint would  be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision. The adjudicator  shared  the 2013 and 2016 statements with 
Meyado. 
Meyado said the January  2013 SIPP  statement (about twelve months after the initial transaction) 
didnt indicate any loss had been suffered. It warned that investment returns could vary and Mr M 
should review things  with his financial adviser. The November 2016 statement  was about three and a 
half years  after the advice. It wasnt clear what  further statements and/or warnings  had been given in 
the interim. Theres  no information about when or how the alleged losses actually arose. Its surprising 
for property  assets to have a zero value.  
Meyado has more recently referred to the High Courts judgment handed  down on 18 May 2020 in the 
case of Adams v Options  SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey Pensions  UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch).  
The claimant  had argued that the underlying investment  had been manifestly unsuitable and the SIPP 
provider had a duty to advise on the underlying  investment. The claim  was dismissed. The court held 
that the SIPP  provider  didnt owe a duty to advise on the underlying investments and there was no 
obligation to refuse the claimants instructions to transfer.  Meyado  argued the judgment was material 
to Mr Ms complaint.  Meyado  said it would be making further  submissions.
Weve also made some  further enquiries. We asked Mr M if hed got any incentive  payment in return  
for investing. We didnt think hed have got one in connection with the plot of land but there might 
have been a payment for the SCS Farmland  investment. Mr M confirmed he hadnt received  any 
incentive payment. He sent us copies of statements for his two bank accounts for the twelve month 
period after the investment had been made. Weve examined those and no payment is shown. 
We also asked whod recommended the investments.  And for some more  information  about  the plot 
of land. 
Mr Ms representative said the unregulated introducer had suggested the investments. About  the plot 
of land I understand that Mr M already owned it. Once  the SIPP was set up, he then sold the plot (for 
£31,000) to the SIPP. Thats  evidenced  by the SIPP application form completed on 23 January 2012.  
It records that Mr M was the vendor/transferor of a property  he wanted to transfer into the SIPP.  A 
solicitors name  is given. On 22 February 2012 Mr Ms bank account  received a credit of £30,972.40  
from that solicitors  firm, labelled as being in respect of the plot of land. I assume that was the 
payment of the purchase price less fees. The 2016 SIPP statement shows the value  of the plot as 
£1,373. 
The value for the SCS Farmland investment is shown as zero. I understand that a dividend  of 
£2,635.10 was paid into the SIPP  on 16 May 2013.  But that was the only payment Mr M has received  
in respect of the investment.  Ive also seen a letter dated 19 January  2015 from the SIPP provider  to 
Mr M. Amongst other things it shows the value of the SCS Farmland holding as £0. The letter says:  
Please note, you are currently  invested  within  SCS Farmland that is a distressed  investment and 
valued at zero. 
my provisional  findings
Meyado initially said the complaint had been made too late. Ive considered  jurisdiction.  But I agree  
with what the adjudicator said  that Mr Ms complaint  wasnt  made  too late. The complaint was made  
to Meyado within six years of the event  complained  of. That was the recommendation to transfer 
and/or the transfer  which then took place. In either case Mr Ms complaint was made  within the 
primary six year period and we can consider it. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive taken  into account relevant law and regulations;  
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Ive also paid attention  to the relevant DISP (Dispute 
Resolution) rules.
Ref: DRN72760829was HDIFAs advice suitable?
I note all HDIFA said in its letter of 25 January  2012 about why it wasnt considering the proposed 
investments. But HDIFA should  have known  that it couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mr M without 
considering the overall transaction. To determine if the transfer to a SIPP was suitable  HDIFA had to 
understand what the SIPP  was going to be invested in. 
Its clear from the regulators January 2013 alert (and further alerts issued in April 2014 and August 
2016) that HDIFA couldnt just advise on the SIPP itself. The proposed underlying investments were  
part and parcel of the advice  to transfer.  HDIFA needed to consider their suitability too. If the 
investments werent suitable then neither was the SIPP. Thats the case whether the introduction 
came from an unregulated  introducer or another regulated firm. Ive discussed below  Mr Bs status. 
I agree with the adjudicator that transferring  to a SIPP wasnt suitable for Mr M. His pension fund was 
modest. Even if his attitude  to risk was apparently high, he didnt have investment experience. It 
seems this was his only pension fund. I cant see that it was suitable  for him to transfer from a 
personal pension with a major provider  invested in a range of funds to a SIPP to invest  in two property 
based investments, one of which was an unregulated, overseas and specialist fund.  
Thats especially the case as Mr M was taking an income  and so any illiquidity would  be a problem. 
The investment in SCS Farmland represented approaching 40% of Mr Ms fund. Even if he was 
apparently prepared to take a high degree of risk, I cant see that investing  that proportion of his fund 
in a niche, unregulated overseas fund with no track record was suitable for him. He didnt have the 
capacity for loss that could and did result. 
Meyado has argued  that HDIFAs advice didnt  involve non standard  assets  the transfer was to a 
SIPP with a regulated SIPP provider. But, as Ive explained, HDIFA couldnt ignore what  the SIPP 
was going to be invested  in. The proposed  investments were part and parcel of the transaction. 
HDIFA couldnt give suitable  advice  about the wrapper without  taking into account  the proposed 
underlying investments. 
I think  suitable advice would have been for Mr M to retain his existing personal pension. 
the involvement of others
Meyados main point is that due to the involvement of others it isnt fair and reasonable to say that all 
Mr Ms losses flow from HDIFAs unsuitable advice and so Meyado should meet those  losses in full. 
DISP 3.6.1R requires me to determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Ive also considered DISP 3.5.2R (which says I may 
inform the complainant that it might be appropriate  to complain against some other  respondent); DISP 
3.5.3R (which deals with where we have two or more complaints from one complainant relating to 
connected circumstances); and DISP 3.6.3G (which says, if we have complaints against more  than 
one respondent in respect of connected circumstances, I may determine that the respondents must 
contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that I consider appropriate). I agree that the 
involvement of other parties  is a relevant factor. 
But Mr Ms complaint  has been  made against  HDIFA. A conclusion that, despite the involvement  of 
other entities, the complaint should be upheld  against the party complained about, and that party 
should meet  the consumers losses in full, wont necessarily be unfair or unreasonable. 
Meyado might argue  that Mr Ms losses arise from the investments and not the transfer or the SIPP  
itself. But if the transfer hadnt happened and the SIPP  hadnt been set up, Mr M wouldnt have been 
in a position  to invest as he did. On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
Ref: DRN727608210And I dont think Meyado can argue that later advice would have changed things  at least in so far as 
the SCS Farmland  investment is concerned.  My understanding is that it has been illiquid throughout. 
Mr M couldnt have sold the investment and reinvested the proceeds in something more suitable  even 
if hed been later advised to do that. 
HDIFAs letter  of 25 January  2012 records that Mr M had been referred  to HDIFA by Mr B and that Mr 
B didnt have the necessary  permissions to undertake  that type of business. Mr B has been  described 
as an unregulated  introducer. But I note from the declaration attached  to HDIFAs letter of 25 January 
2012 that another  firm is mentioned and which I think might  be a regulated firm. Its possible  that Mr B 
worked for that firm. I note from the FCA register that Mr B doesnt appear to have been working in a 
regulated capacity in 2012 although he previously had done. 
But, whatever the position and any advice given  by other parties, Mr B had referred  Mr M to HDIFA 
for advice. HDIFA  should  have advised Mr M properly on the overall transaction. HDIFAs  role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were wholly contingent on the transfer taking place.  HDIFAs  
advice that Mr M should  transfer  to a SIPP so he could  invest as he did  in a plot of land and a high 
risk, unregulated, illiquid fund - was unsuitable. But for the transfer Mr M couldnt have invested as he 
did. Regardless of what, if any, investment  advice had been given by others, HDIFA needed  to 
consider the proposed investments too. 
My starting point is to causation is that HDIFAs advice that Mr M transfer was unsuitable.  So it is 
responsible for the losses hes suffered in transferring  to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts  of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. 
HDIFA could have prevented the investments. Instead it facilitated them, having  given unsuitable 
advice that Mr M transfer.  He was only able to invest as he did because HDIFAs unsuitable advice 
unlocked the funds held in his existing personal  pension. 
If Meyado considers that others  had some responsibility  in the matter its presumably open to Meyado 
to pursue those other parties. I dont think Mr M would object, if Meyado met his losses in full, to 
assigning his rights to Meyado. 
what would Mr M have  done  if HDIFA had given him suitable advice?
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr M would have done if HDIFA had given  him suitable  advice  that 
he shouldnt transfer to a SIPP. Whether someone would have gone  ahead with a particular 
transaction in any event  will depend on the particular  situation. 
In some other cases weve seen that substantial incentive payments were  made in return  for investing  
in an unregulated fund.  But Mr M has confirmed  he didnt get any payment and hes produced his 
bank statements to evidence  that. So theres no suggestion that he was motivated by the promise  of a 
tax free cash lump sum. 
But Mr Ms circumstances were different  from other cases Ive seen in that he already owned one of 
the investments  which was then acquired  by the SIPP  the plot of land. 
Ive seen some emails  between  Mr M and Mr B. It seems Mr M was in contact with Mr B in January 
2012. Theres  an email from Mr M to Mr B on 20 January  2012. Mr M thanks Mr B for his quick 
response, refers to his paultry  pension funds and says he likes the idea of being able to move my 
land portfolio  into my Pension fund to release  capital which is locked up in the land. Mr M also refers  
to some health issues which  are concerning him and which make the resolution of the disposal of the 
land more  pressing. I can also see that, later on, when Mr M was returning all the documentation, he 
asked Mr B to proceed with all haste.
I think  those emails are significant. They show that Mr M was very interested  in realising the value of 
the plot of land he already  owned. As he said in his email,  selling the plot to the SIPP allowed  him to 
free up the capital value of the land. I think releasing the value of that asset was the main  driver for 
the transfer to the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN727608211In order  to sell the plot of land and realise its value, Mr M would have  needed to transfer to a pension 
vehicle  such  as a SIPP  - that allowed that type of direct property investment.  His existing personal 
pension arrangement wouldnt  have permitted the investment. Although, as Ive said,  I dont think 
HDIFAs advice to transfer to a SIPP  was suitable, I think Mr M would  have transferred in any event 
on the basis that it allowed  him to release the value of the plot of land and which he was keen to do 
and as quickly  as possible. 
Further, and in any event,  I dont see that Mr M has suffered any financial  loss in respect of the plot of 
land.  As  Ive said above, on 22 February 2012, Mr Ms bank account was credited with £30,972.40 
which was I understand the net proceeds of the sale of the plot. I assume  that the sale price agreed 
(£31,000) was the commercial value of the plot. I dont think the SIPP  provider could have permitted 
the transaction otherwise.  And Mr Ms had the use and benefit of the sale proceeds since 2012. 
According to Mr Ms 2016  SIPP statement the value of the plot had fallen very substantially and was 
then only worth £1,373. I dont know why that it. Or what its current value  is. But given  Mr M was 
apparently paid the full market value of the plot in 2012  I dont see hes suffered any financial  loss. Mr 
M might  argue that his SIPP has suffered a loss. But as hes the owner of the SIPP  I dont think it 
would be right to treat any loss to the SIPP separately. And, in any event,  if Mr M was always  going to 
go ahead with the investment in 2012, regardless of any advice  to the contrary, Meyado wont be 
responsible for any loss hes suffered  as, even with suitable advice from HDIFA,  Mr M would  have 
done what he did anyway. 
But I dont think the position  is the same for the SCS Farmland investment.  I can see why Mr M 
wouldve felt confident in going ahead with the sale of the plot of land to his SIPP, despite any advice 
to the contrary. Mr M already  owned  the plot. It was a tangible, physical  asset. I think thats very 
different to a decision as to whether to invest in a fund with which he had no connection and about  
which he had no knowledge  or experience.  
In deciding whether to go ahead with that sort of investment  hed be guided  by what  hed been  told 
about the investment, its prospects and the associated risks. I think in that situation  Mr M would  have 
been dependent on advice and so hed have been much more likely to heed any advice against 
investing because of the unregulated  and high risk nature of the investment. 
Mr M has said the SCS Farmland was suggested by Mr B. But, as Ive explained, HDIFA had to take 
into account  the proposed  underlying investment too. It wasnt open to HDIFA to proceed on the basis 
that Mr M was dealing with Mr B about the proposed  investments. If HDIFA didnt  know what  they 
were, HDIFA  should have  found out. 
Mr M no doubt trusted Mr B. But, as things stood, and in the absence of any indication from HDIFA 
that what Mr B was proposing may not have been suitable, Mr M had no reason  not to proceed with 
an investment in SCS Farmland. HDIFA should have said it couldnt  recommend the transfer and the 
investment in SCS Farmland and explained  why - because it was too risky.   
If HDIFA had explained the unregulated  and speculative  nature of the investment  and spelled out the 
risks that would have put into perspective what Mr M may have been told by others about the 
investment. I dont think its reasonable to assume that Mr M would have ignored advice from HDIFA. 
Ive explained why, despite  any advice  to the contrary, I think that Mr M would have  gone ahead  with 
the transfer to the SIPP and the investment  in the plot of land. But, in my view, the same isnt true for 
investing in SCS Farmland. I think suitable advice  from HDIFA  would have made  Mr M reconsider. 
Meyado has queried the current value of that investment.  Ive referred above to the SIPP  statements 
and the letter dated 19 January 2015 from the from the SIPP provider describing the SCS Farmland 
as a distressed investment.  So I think its clear the investment has zero value. 
Meyados comments  about the court case
Ref: DRN727608212Meyado has referred  to the case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP. Meyado  did indicate that it 
wished to make further comments about  the case. Meyado  has had ample time to do so. I dont see 
that the case  is relevant. 
First it relates to a SIPP  providers obligations, whereas Mr Ms complaint is made  against his 
independent financial  adviser. Secondly, the issue in the court case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers obligations in an execution only transaction. Here HDIFA was
providing regulated advice.  I dont  see theres anything  in the Adams v Carey judgement which is 
obviously relevant to the present case.
fair compensation  
My aim is awarding redress is to put Mr M as far as possible in the position  hed be in now if HDIFA 
had given him suitable advice and taking into account what I think  Mr M would have done,  had 
suitable advice been given. Im limiting  redress to the SCS Farmland investment. I think  Mr M would 
have transferred to a SIPP in any event  (to facilitate the purchase of the plot of land). Im not making 
any award in relation to the SIPP itself or in respect  of any ongoing SIPP fees on the basis that Mr M 
would have transferred to the SIPP in any event.  
To that end, Meyado should.  
Compare the performance  of Mr M's investment  with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Meyado should pay it into Mr Ms pension plan, to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Meyado is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr M would  have  been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 
75% of the compensation.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr M in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Meyado considers it is required by HMRC 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off and give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
SCS Farmland investment
still 
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index   date of      
purchasedate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
Ref: DRN727608213This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. If, at the end date, the 
investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find 
the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Meyado  should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Meyado is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil
for the purpose of calculation. Meyado may wish to require that Mr M provides it with an undertaking 
to pay Meyado any amount  he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan. 
Meyado will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment  should  be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually  paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the investment  should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept  if Meyado totals all those payments  and deducts 
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the
index is close enough  to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure  of comparison
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Limited must redress Mr M as 
Ive set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7276082