K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  unfairly refused  his claim for flood damage 
and voided his buildings insurance policy from the last renewal.
background
Mr P had buildings insurance  with Tesco  Underwriting  Limited that he originally took out in 
December 2015  and last renewed  in December 2017. In 2018 he made a claim for flood  
damage under his policy. But when Tesco sent a loss adjuster to the property, it found that 
the house had six bedrooms, not the four bedrooms  noted on the application. Tesco  said it 
doesnt provide  buildings insurance for properties  with more than 5 bedrooms  so it voided 
the policy from the date of last renewal.
Mr P complained to Tesco about  this and argued that not all the rooms  counted  were  
bedrooms. But Tesco rejected his complaint so he came to this service. Our investigator  
originally thought the complaint should  be upheld because Mr P had been able to get a 
quote for insurance  for a six bed property on a Tesco  website. But based on further  evidence  
from Tesco about its underwriting policy  he changed his view and thought the complaint 
should be rejected.  Mr P disagreed with this and asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
Tesco has to consider Mr Ps claim and Ill explain why.
My role here is to decide whether Tesco was entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy  and not pay his 
flood claim.  In reviewing  this complaint,  Ive considered the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations on a consumer when 
entering into an insurance contract and the remedies available  to an insurer when  a 
consumer fails to fulfil their obligations if it can show they made what the Act describes as a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA it is for Tesco to show Mr Ps representation  was a qualifying  
misrepresentation by showing  he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when he took out his policy.  It also needs  to show  it wouldnt have offered 
him cover at all if he hadnt made the misrepresentation, or it would have done so on 
different terms. Once its shown it was a qualifying misrepresentation what  its entitled  to do 
depends on whether the misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless.  
Ive looked at the question  Mr P was asked  when he took out his policy.  He was asked to 
state how many bedrooms were  in the house  to include all rooms designed as bedrooms.  
The note on the website stated Bedrooms include rooms originally designed  as bedrooms 
but now have  another  use such as studies, and rooms that have been converted to 
bedrooms. He entered on Tescos website that he had four bedrooms.  But when his claim 
was assessed  the loss adjuster found there  were  six bedrooms.
Ive looked at the evidence provided  by Mr P and the business which I appreciate is 
conflicting to some extent.  Mr Ps provided evidence from one property website at the time 
he bought the house showing the house as having four bedrooms.  Tescos given us 
evidence from two property websites showing the property listed as having six bedrooms.  
Ref: DRN71686362Ive also considered the photos of the rooms. Mr P says there are no more than five 
bedrooms and the last room was used as a playroom  with a mattress  used for childrens 
seating. But based on all the information,  I believe  it is likely that the property would be 
considered as a six bed property for sale. Even if the two loft rooms are smaller than the 
other bedrooms, I believe they could easily be used as bedrooms. Therefore I find that the 
property should  be considered as a six bedroom  property even if not all are regularly used 
as bedrooms.  
Tesco needs  to show first of all that by answering  this question in the way he did Mr P failed 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. I think Tesco  has shown that Mr P 
failed to take reasonable care. I say this because one of the considerations under CIDRA is 
how clear the question the consumer was asked was. Mr P was asked a clear question 
about the number of bedrooms and he appears to have answered  this incorrectly  in his 
response.  
Tesco has shown from its underwriting guidelines  that it wouldnt have offered Mr P a home 
insurance policy at all had it known the correct  number of bedrooms.  In my view this means 
that Tesco has shown  there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA says a qualifying  misrepresentation  can be considered as careless, deliberate or 
reckless. In this case Tesco has concluded  Mr P made his misrepresentation carelessly. It is 
for Tesco to demonstrate this and having  carefully considered what  Mr P and Tesco  have 
told us, Im persuaded  Tesco  has acted fairly  in treating the misrepresentation in this way. I 
say this because  Mr P ought to reasonably have known that an assessment of his home 
would conclude that it had six bedrooms and could have inquired about this if he had any 
doubts. 
Tescos accepted that Mr P didnt deliberately provide it with misleading  information. This 
means it wouldnt necessarily void the policy if it wouldve  insured  Mr P based  on the correct 
information. So the second question  I need  to decide is whether or not Tesco Underwriting 
Limited would  have insured the property  at all if it had been told the property had six 
bedrooms. Mr Ps provided  evidence  that a quote was produced for a six bedroom property 
on a Tesco website. But Tescos told us this wasnt a quote  for insurance underwritten by 
Tesco Underwriting Limited.  It says Tesco Bank  works with a panel of insurers who offer 
different policies based on different criteria and these are available through Tesco Banks 
website. The quote Mr P found was a quote for insurance provided with a different insurer. 
So I dont  think the quote shows that Tesco Underwriting Limited wouldve insured a six bed 
property even if insurance for such a property was available through Tesco Bank.
Tescos provided a screenshot of its underwriting policy on the number of rooms  in a 
property. This shows it wouldnt insure  properties  with more than five bedrooms over the 
entire period of Mr Ps insurance. So I find that Tesco Underwriting Limited  wouldnt have 
insured Mr Ps property  if it had been told it had six bedrooms. In these circumstances, I 
think Tescos  acted  fairly in rejecting the claim and voiding the policy.  An insurer  is entitled  to 
void a policy  under CIDRA  where  it wouldnt have offered  cover, and so it was fair for Tesco  
to void Mr Ps policy. 
Tesco says its policy is to refund premiums  from the last renewal date, however because  its 
provided evidence  that it would  never have provided insurance, I dont think thats  enough. If 
the insurance would never have been  provided, I find it should  be voided  from the start. 
Tescos argued that CIDRA requires it to return Mr Ps premiums but isnt specific that this 
should be from the start of its insurance  rather than from renewal. But I think  its fair for 
Ref: DRN71686363Tesco to refund premiums  from the start as it wouldnt  have provided insurance based on 
the correct information and therefore  wouldnt have considered his claim at any time since  
he first took out the insurance. But it is not required to consider  his claim as there was no 
policy in place to offer him cover.
I know this will be a very disappointing outcome for Mr P but I hope Ive explained my 
reasoning.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld to the extent 
that Tesco Underwriting  Limited should  refund the insurance premiums  to the start of the 
policy, not only to the point  of renewal.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7168636