K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mrs Y says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Y case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs Y says that there  was no mention of PPI, and that it mustve been added  to her 
account without  her knowledge  or consent.  But I think  BoS made it clear  that Mrs Y didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because BoS has provided 
a copy of Mrs Ys credit card application,  on this I can see that PPI is presented as an 
optional product. The PPI has been selected,  and Mrs Y has signed to confirm  the 
selection. This is separate to her signature for the card.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs Y so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs Y about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs Y, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs Y has said, including what  shes  said about  having good 
sick pay from her employer at the time. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of, and for 
longer than Mrs Y wouldve received full pay for. And as I think she knew she was taking out 
PPI, she wouldve done so knowing what she already had in place. So this point doesnt 
change my decision and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN78674122what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mrs Y any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Mrs Y any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs Y the difference between 
what Mrs Y owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mrs Y 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs Y can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs Y any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7867412