K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about the short term loans she took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Miss M says that she was dependent on short  term lending.  She says that 
QuickQuid failed to carry out adequate assessments, if it had done these it wouldve seen 
that her financial situation  wasnt good and it wouldnt have lent to her.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me  an ombudsman.  
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ms complaint should  be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid and Miss M received my provisional  decision. Miss M didnt have anything  to add.
QuickQuid didnt agree with my provisional  decision.  It said that:
it wasnt reasonable to say that the loan amounts were generally increasing as loans 
5, 6 and 7 were  for lower amounts than loan 4 
there were some breaks in Miss Ms lending, and she had a good repayment  history.  
These showed that she wasnt dependent  on short term lending  and she wasnt in 
financial difficulty 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do see that there wasnt always loan on loan increase in the amounts Miss M borrowed. 
But, as I said in my earlier  decision,  loan 4 was a large increase compared with what  Miss M 
had borrowed before. And whilst  Miss M did take some lower loans going  forward the 
amounts she was borrowing from loan 4 onwards generally remained much higher than the 
amounts she borrowed  at the early stage of the lending. In any event I dont think this 
lending pattern is indicative of Miss M moving towards financial stability, I think it shows  the 
opposite. 
And Miss M did borrow  from QuickQuid for a long time. QuickQuids records show that she 
borrowed for over two years. So taking this into consideration, and the amounts Miss M was 
borrowing, I dont think the breaks in the lending were long enough  for QuickQuid  to be able 
to assume that Miss Ms situation  had improved. And I still think that, given what I know  
about her situation,  borrowing these amounts, over this length of time, is evidence  of 
financial difficulty in itself.  QuickQuid shouldve realised this and not continued to lend to her. 
So I still think Mss Ms complaint should be upheld and largely for the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN74435512putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 to 8 should be removed from Miss Ms credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ms complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019. 
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74435513extract from my provisional decision
Miss M took out eight  payday loans  between March 2015 and April 2017. These were  mostly loans 
with one, two or three  repayments. When there was more than one repayment, there would  be one or 
two smaller repayments then a larger  one. Some of the information QuickQuid has given us is shown 
in the table below:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowed 
(£)term (days)number of 
repaymentsdate ended
1 30/03/2015 200 88 3 26/06/2015
2 14/10/2015 100 71 3 19/12/2015
3 14/02/2016 100 39 2 05/03/2016
4 05/03/2016 700 83 3 27/05/2016
5 18/06/2016 300 101 3
5a 23/07/2016 100 66 312/08/2016
6 20/08/2016 250 38 1 26/08/2016
7 29/10/2016 100 32 1 30/11/2016
8 01/04/2017 400 90 3 30/06/2017
QuickQuid has looked at Miss Ms complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said that it did 
appropriate checks for all of the loans. And these checks showed that the lending was affordable 
based on Miss Ms declared monthly income. It also said that Miss M wasnt dependent on short term 
loans and she didnt  notify it of any financial  hardship. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ms complaint  and recommended that QuickQuid refund the 
interest and charges that she paid on loans 4, 5a, 6 and 8. QuickQuid didnt agree with this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to partially uphold Miss Ms complaint.  Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available  I think QuickQuid was wrong to have given  Miss M loans 4 to 8. Ill explain 
why.
When our adjudicator looked at this complaint,  he thought  that QuickQuid had made proportionate 
checks for loans 1 to 3 and that QuickQuids  decisions to approve these  loans were reasonable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks for loans  4 to 8. He 
thought if it had then it wouldnt have agreed to lend Miss M money for loans 4, 5a, 6 and 8. This is 
because he didnt think that Miss M could  afford  the repayments.  And QuickQuid wouldve seen  this 
had it completed better checks.  But better checks wouldve shown  that Miss M could afford loans 5 
and 7 and so he didnt think QuickQuid  irresponsibly  lent these  loans.
QuickQuid didnt comment  on our adjudicators findings about the proportionality of its checks  or the 
affordability of the loans,  nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded  to our 
adjudication saying:
Ref: DRN74435514 Thank you for your email.  I have reviewed your assessment  regarding Miss M's complaint by 
which you are in the belief that QuickQuid irresponsibly lent some loans  that were issued  post 2015.  
Whilst I appreciate  the points you have made, I am still in the belief that the checks QuickQuid carried 
out were adequate and sufficient to the types and amount of credit provided. I have now attached  the 
entire lending process including all the checks that we perform prior to lending, the screenshots  of 
customer applications as well as the sample acknowledgement from the contract  that customers  have 
to check  when  their repayment amount is greater than their estimated disposable  income 
QuickQuid first mentioned  this argument in its business  submissions  to us in which  it said:
We started implementing changes  to the affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes 
were completed by 28 Feb 2015. Starting 1 March 2015, before Miss M borrowed these  loans, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook and that 
was in place at the time we received authorisation by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually  for each loan
It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks. And this response didnt change  
our adjudicators opinion.
This Service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument  directly and through earlier final 
decisions. So I am not going  to expand on this point any further here, though I have considered  it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. 
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Miss Ms complaint and what  both parties have said about  
this.
The FCA was the regulator  at the time Miss M borrowed  the loans in question. Bearing in mind  the 
rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN)  and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am not 
quoting the specific regulations here because, as before, I would expect QuickQuid to be conversant 
with these  through previous  ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, which  set these  out 
in detail.) 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed checks;
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics  of Miss Ms complaint.  Miss M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion 
about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about  these loans. 
So I wont be making a decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship 
Miss M had with QuickQuid. So they are something Ive taken into account  when considering  the 
other loans  she took.
QuickQuid says: 
it recorded Miss Ms monthly income  as being £1,050 for loans 1 and 2 and £1,180  for the 
remainder 
it recorded her monthly expenditure  as £465 for all of the lending
it validated the information it obtained using credit reference agency data
it used  the information it had gained from the credit  reports to adjust the amounts Miss M had 
provided to calculate  what it called her estimated disposable  income
Ref: DRN74435515Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss M would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?  If not, would  those checks  have 
shown that Miss M would have been able to do so?
Our adjudicator didnt think that QuickQuids  checks went far enough  for loans 4 to 8. But Im not 
upholding Miss Ms complaint on the same basis. This is partly because  I think the lending pattern 
itself was harmful or unsustainable. And Miss M hasnt been able to provide any further information 
that shows what QuickQuid  wouldve seen had it made further  checks. So I wont comment further on 
the checks  QuickQuid made. 
And I havent recreated individual,  proportionate affordability checks  for loans 4 to 8 because I dont  
think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Miss Ms indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so QuickQuid should have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given the 
particular circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this 
because:
the amounts  Miss M was borrowing were generally  increasing, and QuickQuid ought  to have 
realised it was likely her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. There was a very sharp  
increase in the amount she borrowed for loan 4, and Miss M increased  the amount she 
borrowed for loan 5 shortly after starting  it
Miss M wasnt really reducing the amount she owed QuickQuid.  She was in effect paying  
large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period. By loan 4 shed had a 
lending relationship with QuickQuid for just under a year.  And this continued for another  year 
going forward. 
And whilst  there  were  some breaks in the lending I dont  think these  were long enough  at any 
time for it to be reasonable for QuickQuid to think Miss Ms financial situation had improved.
I think  that Miss Ms lost out because  QuickQuid  continued to approve loans from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ms ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans
So Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans  4 to 8 because the overall pattern of lending 
increased her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shes lost out 
as a result.
did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Miss M in some other way.  
Ref: DRN7443551