K821x#15complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about the sale of a legal expenses insurance  policy  by Hepworth 
Insurance Services Ltd.
Mrs E says the policy was mis-sold.
background
In July 2019 Mrs E purchased a legal  expenses insurance policy from Hepworth Insurance. 
In October  2019 she made a claim on that policy for cover to bring a claim against her tenant 
in respect of some repairs to her property. The underwriter of the policy declined cover  for 
two reasons; They said the policy  wouldnt respond where the property that was the subject 
of dispute wasnt  Mrs Es main residence  and the dispute itself began before the insurance 
was in place. 
Mrs E is unhappy because she says Hepworth Insurance was aware she lived abroad and 
the property she was insured for wasnt her main residence. Because  of this she said the 
policy would never  have covered her for property disputes. So she wants Hepworth 
Insurance to cover  the legal  costs  shes incurred in respect of the dispute with her tenant.
Our investigator considered Mrs Es complaint. He concluded the policy  had been mis-sold  
and that Hepworth Insurance should  refund the policy premium to Mrs E together with 
interest of 8% per year simple, as well as pay her £100 for the distress  and inconvenience 
the mis-sale caused  her. Mrs E wasnt happy  with this. She says Hepworth Insurance  should 
cover the costs associated with her claim against the tenant. Shes  also complained about 
the length of time it took Hepworth to deal with her complaint  and feels  which  caused  to her 
to incur further solicitors  costs. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that Mrs Es 
complaint should  be upheld  in the same  way proposed by the investigator.  Ill explain why.
The policy was sold by Hepworth Insurance on an advised basis. That means they had a 
duty to ensure it was suitable for Mrs Es needs and circumstances as well as ensure she 
had enough information about it to decide whether to take it out.
Its clear from the policy terms that the property disputes section of the policy would only 
offer cover in relation  to Mrs Es main home. Her main home was out of the country. She 
stayed in the building that housed her tenant when she returned to the UK. So, it cant  be 
said this was her main home. Because of this, I agree that this part of the policy  was 
unsuitable for her needs and circumstances. 
Mrs E says that this means Hepworth Insurance should cover her legal costs  in dealing  with 
the dispute with her tenant. I dont agree. That claim was turned down for two reasons. The 
first was because the property that was the subject of the claim wasnt  her main residence. 
The second  was because the dispute  was pre-existing. Mrs E strongly disputes the latter,  
but I dont agree.
Its clear from everything Ive seen that Mrs E had some  difficulties  with her tenant before the 
Ref: DRN70117642policy was in place.  She says the issue that gave rise to the claim was when her tenant 
refused to do some work to the property after a surveyors report  was obtained. But the 
surveyors report was obtained because there  was damp in the property. And given what  
shes told us, the damp  was present  before she purchased  the insurance. So, I think  it 
wouldve been reasonable for her to have been  aware there might be a problem with the 
property that couldve  given rise to a claim when she took out the insurance. 
In addition, Mrs E says there were issues with the boundary before the insurance was taken 
out. Although  that might  not be connected  to the damp, its common  for neighbour and 
tenant disputes to involve  a number of different problems that are often wrapped  up together  
in one claim. Given the problems she was having with the boundary  and damp, I think its 
more than likely Mrs E was aware  there might be problems with her tenant  in future, such 
that they would give rise to a claim. Because of this I dont think that this claim wouldve 
been covered  by this policy or any others she wouldve sought to take out in July 2018.  So 
even if Hepworth Insurance hadnt  mis-sold  it, I find it unlikely she wouldve succeeded in a 
claim. The correct remedy  is therefore for Hepworth Insurance  to return the policy premium 
to her together with interest as set out in my award  of fair compensation below.
Mrs E has also said that Hepworth Insurance didnt respond to her complaint  about cover in 
a timely  manner and that she had to instruct solicitors before they were prepared to deal with 
the matter. Whilst that might be the case, that doesnt mean that Hepworth Insurance need 
to pay her solicitors costs. It wasnt necessary for Mrs E to instruct  solicitors  to bring a 
complaint to this service.  We dont generally  award consumers their representatives costs in 
doing this because were an informal dispute  resolution service. And in any event, we cant  
consider complaints about how a business  has complaint handled- its not a regulated 
activity, so falls out of the scope of what we can look at. That having been  said,  I appreciate 
the mis-sale of the complaint itself has caused Mrs E some inconvenience.  Had Hepworth 
Insurance made the limitations  of the policy clear, this wouldve better managed  her 
expectations. So, I agree  that they should pay her £100 to compensate  her for the distress  
this might have caused her.
fair compensation
Hepworth Insurance should:
Refund the cost of the policy premium to Mrs E together with interest at 8% per year 
simple* from the time it was paid,  until its reimbursed, and;
Pay her £100  for the distress and inconvenience  caused to her by the mis-sale of the 
policy. 
I understand Hepworth Insurance have offered to settle Mrs Es complaint by paying her 
£125 in settlement of her complaint. Its up to Mrs E if she wants  to accept  that in payment  of 
my award of fair compensation.
Ref: DRN70117643my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint  against  Hepworth Insurance  
Services Limited and direct them to comply  with my award of fair compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
* I understand that Hepworth Insurance Services Limited are required to deduct  basic  rate 
tax from this part of the compensation.  Whether Mrs E needs to take any further  action will 
depend on her financial  circumstances.  More information about the tax position can be found 
on our website.
Ref: DRN7011764