K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr B complain Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance  Company  of Europe SE has cancelled 
their insurance policy unfairly.
background
Mr M and Mr B took out insurance with Aioi which started on 2 November 2018. Mr M was 
the principle policy holder  and Mr B a named driver.  On 6 November 2018  Aioi wrote to Mr M 
asking for a copy of the V5 document. The letter was headed  urgent and required the 
documentation within  seven  days.  The letter also explained that if it wasnt received by 13 
November 2018  the policy would be cancelled the following day. 
The same request was also sent the same  day to the e-mail address  that Mr M gave when  
taking out the policy.  And a text message informing him that Aioi had written  to him by post 
and e-mail and the matter required immediate attention, was sent at the same time. It was 
assumed by Mr M (or Mr B it isnt clear which)  that the text was in relation to the black  box 
and so a call was made  to arrange  an appointment to fit the box. 
As Mr M didnt send the requested  information by the required time, the policy was cancelled 
on 14 November 2018. A text message  was sent confirming this was sent on 15 November 
2018. Cancellation confirmation  was also sent by letter and e-mail on 14 November 2018.
Mr M subsequently  contacted Aioi about this issue as he didnt  receive the letter  requesting 
the V5 until 12 November  which didnt  give sufficient time to provide the information.  And    
Mr M said, although looking at his e-mails everyday  day, he didnt receive an e-mail 
requesting the V5. He did, however, say this might have gone into a spam/junk folder. Aioi 
said it would  look into what correspondence  had been sent and look into the matter and 
arrange a call back. Ultimately Aioi stood by its decision to cancel the policy. 
Mr and Mr B subsequently made a complaint about the cancellation  and the service 
received. Aioi upheld  the complaint in part. It didnt think it had done anything  wrong  in 
relation to cancelling the policy. But it did agree  a call which  took place following that wasnt  
handled well and offered a £10 voucher. Not happy with that Mr M and Mr B asked us to look 
into it. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded Aioi hadnt done  anything wrong. 
She was satisfied Aioi had used the correct  contact details to let Mr M know that further 
information was needed. She didnt find Aioi was responsible for Mr M not receiving the 
requests until he did.
Mr M and Mr B are unhappy with the outcome and have replied at length.  In summary they 
have said:
It is not their fault they didnt receive the letter sent requesting the V5 until 12 
November and contrary to the investigators  view, this didnt leave sufficient time to 
get the documentation to Aioi. Her suggestion  this could have been done with a 
smartphone makes  an unfair  assumption either  of them have a smartphone which 
they dont.
And when the letter  was received Mr B was in a panic and wasnt  able digest all of 
the information it contained. Giving someone  a day to provide the information wasnt 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN70383642Mr M doesnt  speak English well and he doesnt  deal with technology well either.  It is 
possible the e-mail went into a spam/junk folder which he doesnt check  because of 
the dangers of doing so. And also there  is reference in a call to Mr M checking e-
mails daily, but it isnt certain  it was Mr M speaking  and it could have been a family 
member.
The text message wasnt clear what it was in relation to. 
They continue to believe  they have been  treated unfairly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I understand Mr M and Mr B feel very strongly  about  this matter. And although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments  above, I would like to reassure Mr M, Mr B and 
Aioi that I considered  everything that has been  said and provided. 
Aioi has cancelled Mr Ms policy  following  it not receiving requested  information.  I can only 
ask Aioi to do something in relation  to that if I find it has done  something wrong. 
Aioi wrote to Mr M on 6 November 2018  asking for the V5 document to be sent within  7 
days. It also warned  Mr M that if it didnt receive the requested  information  it would cancel  
the policy on 14 November 2018.  The letter was sent to the correct address. On the same  
day, Aioi also sent Mr M an e-mail requesting the same information and giving the same 
warning. 
I understand the letter wasnt received by Mr M until 12 November. But that doesnt mean 
they were only given one day to provide  the information as Mr B argues. The letter gave 
them seven days  that they received the letter some time later is not in Aiois control. Im 
also mindful that Mr M was also sent an e-mail, to the address that Mr M gave Aioi to use. 
Mr M confirms in a call that he checks his e-mails daily. I dont find Mr Bs suggestion  that it 
might have been a family member that said Mr M checks  his e-mails daily persuasive  
during that same call, Mr M explains this to two different members  of staff and then the call is 
passed to Mr B. So Mr B would definitely know whether or not Mr M made the initial call. And 
if he didnt, as has been suggested  by Mr B, then I would have similar concerns to the 
investigator about someone  calling Aioi purporting to be Mr M. 
I accept the e-mail may have gone into Mr Ms spam/junk folder. I also accept that Mr M 
might not want to open e-mails that are in that folder. But that is his personal choice and 
where the correctly  addressed e-mail arrives is again not something Aioi has any control 
over. And e-mails are received almost  instantaneously and so Im satisfied  Mr M did, in fact, 
have the full seven days in which to comply with the request. 
Mr B also makes much of the text message not being  clear about what  it was in relation to. I 
agree it doesnt  specifically  mention  the need  for the V5, but it does  refer to the recent e-mail 
and letter sent. So Mr M and Mr B would have known  Aioi had sent an e-mail and letter. This 
text was also sent on 6 November  2018. This should, at the very least,  have prompted  Mr M 
to check his e-mails. But instead it appears  Mr M (or Mr B) assumed,  incorrectly,  this was 
about the black box fitting. 
Ref: DRN70383643Aioi used three different communication methods to request the information it needed from 
Mr M. Those communications were sent to the correct contact details provided by Mr M 
when he took out the policy. If contact from Aioi should have  gone  elsewhere, that was 
something Mr M should have asked  for. I am satisfied Aioi made the requests correctly and 
provided sufficient warning of what would happen  if the request wasnt  fulfilled. I find no 
basis on which to say Aioi has done  anything wrong  and so I make no award.  
I also understand Mr B is unhappy that a £30 administration  charge  has been applied  to the 
refund of the insurance premium.  The charge is allowed  for in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. There would have been a cost to Aioi in both setting  up and cancelling the policy  
and I dont find it was unfair of Aioi to apply to the charge.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7038364