K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited has handled her claim.  
background
Mrs E has a building insurance  policy with Aviva.  In January 2018,  she made a claim for 
storm damage to a wall in a barn at the back of her property. Mrs Es husband  has been 
assisting Mrs E with the claim. She also appointed  a representative to deal with Aviva  all 
references to Mrs E include any submissions made by both the representative  and Mrs Es 
husband. 
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that the damage wasnt  caused  by a one-off  storm 
event. 
Mrs E complained and raised the following concerns:
The claim wasnt dealt with fairly and Aviva  interfered
Surveyors on site agreed that the cause  of the damage  was storm related, but this 
isnt reflected in the reports presented
There was an attempt  to close the complaint incorrectly 
The claims handler didnt use plain English and made veiled threats
Unhappy with Avivas  response to her concerns, Mrs E referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think  Aviva  had done anything wrong. 
She found that Aviva had based its decision to decline the claim on the expert  reports and 
there was insufficient  evidence  of what the surveyors had agreed to on site. 
Mrs E disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The surveyors met and agreed  that the storm had caused the damage, but this 
wasnt reflected in the reports 
Aviva  changed its mind  first it made  an offer to settle but then repudiated the claim
The structure was adequate
It was the storm which caused the final failure 
And so the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mrs Es 
complaint should  be upheld  and largely for the same  reasons as already explained  by the 
investigator.
The relevant  industry  rules say insurers should handle claims promptly  and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy covers:  loss  of or damage  of the buildings caused bystorm  or flood. But it 
doesnt cover wear or tear and says: All property insured by this policy  must be maintained  
in good condition.
Ref: DRN75749822As this complaint  relates  to a claim for storm damage,  Ive considered the following three key 
factors:
1.Did a storm happen at the location  of the damage around the time of the claim?
2.Is the damage consistent with the type of damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage?
Ive set out below the facts in relation to each  of the three key factors:
1.Did a storm happen at the location of the damage around the time of the claim?  
According to weather  reports, there were high winds throughout January 2018 and so Im 
satisfied a storm happened at the location of the damage at around the time of the claim. 
2.Is the damage consistent with the type of damage that would be caused by a 
storm?
In her claim  to Aviva, Mrs E confirmed that the barn walls started  to bow, and the roof had a 
slant on it following the bad weather.  A crack also appeared.  Aviva investigated the damage  
to the property which is documented in the expert  reports as follows:
Report from June 2018  the first expert didnt think a single event had caused the failure of 
the front wall of the barn.
Report from November 2018  a second expert said the cracking appears to have been 
caused by a sudden imposed load and the masonry has suffered from structural  movement. 
This expert said the crack  seemed to have  appeared following the heavy snow  earlier  in the 
year. 
However, there was no snow in January  2018   the snowfall  came later in February  and 
March 2018.
Report from June 2019  the first expert compiled a further report and confirmed he didnt 
think a single storm event  was the primary  cause of the failure.  It was the inadequate 
structure of the roof.
So based  on the above, the experts disagreed on what  caused  the damage. The report in 
November 2018  suggested heavy snow caused  the crack. But the crack appeared before 
the snowfall in 2018 and so something other than the snow must have caused the crack. 
Aviva carried  out further investigations and found  evidence that the roof of the barn was 
spreading prior to 2018  and so the damage  wasnt solely caused by the storm. 
Mrs E said she would get further independent evidence but this hasnt been  provided and so 
I havent got anything further to consider. 
3.Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
As set out above, according to the expert reports and further information revealed in Avivas 
investigations, the storm wasnt the main  cause of the damage.
Ref: DRN75749823Avivas offer to settle  and subsequent  repudiation  of the claim
Aviva made an offer to settle the claim by offering a contribution to the cost of repairing the 
damage to the wall in the sum of £16,256.48. This offer wasnt accepted, and Aviva  
continued with its enquiries and investigation. 
It formally repudiated the claim in May 2019  and made the following points:
The policy doesnt cover wear and tear and all property insured by the policy  must be 
maintained in good condition
Mrs E was under a duty to contact Aviva as soon  as reasonably  possible following an 
event or cause likely  to lead to a claim
There was no documented weather event on or around 18 January which  would have 
resulted in structural damage to the scale of the deterioration presented
The claim wasnt reported  until the end of March  2018
A planning application from 2017 mentioned the roof which  is spreading
Experts have  said the bowing of the front wall of the property is as a result  of the 
horizontal force from the roof, known as roof spread
Given the construction and alterations over the years which includes the removal of 
internal walls, the failure of the roof was inevitable
If the roof had adequate horizontal  restraint,  then the top of the wall wouldnt have 
bowed out and wouldnt have cracked  and failed
Storm  therefore isnt the proximate cause of failure of this structure 
A number of other cracks are older  and worn around the edges, there  is general  wear 
and tear to mortar joints and the reports confirm the roof is spreading
Avivas position was prejudiced by the failure  to report  the claim promptly but as a 
result of additional enquiries  undertaken, it is now able to clearly  determine that the 
failure of the structure has arisen as a result of long-term wear and tear and historic 
defects in design. 
Having considered the above reasons given by Aviva,  I dont think  it unfairly declined  the 
claim on the basis that the main cause of the damage wasnt the storm.
Throughout her submission to this service, Mrs E has said there was no mention  of any 
problems with the property or the structure  for many years prior to the storm in 2018 and so 
there is no evidence  that the structure was inadequate.  However,  Im satisfied that Aviva has 
provided the appropriate evidence from the planning  application in 2017 which shows  that 
the roof was spreading. Both experts  agree that the failure of the roof was inevitable 
however one expert says the storm caused the final failure whilst the other expert  doesnt  
think a one-off event  caused the failure.  
The second  expert carried out a further survey  explaining why he didnt think the storm 
caused the damage. Im persuaded by his report on the basis  that the first expert  attributed 
the cracking to the snow. But this couldnt have been the cause as the crack appeared in 
January 2018  and the snowfall came  later in February and March  2018. And so Im not 
satisfied the weather in January 2018  caused  the damage. 
The claim  wasnt dealt with fairly, Aviva interfered 
The claims  handler didnt use plain English  and made veiled threats
Ive reviewed all of the information and correspondence passing between  the parties and I 
dont think Aviva has interfered or dealt with the claim unfairly.  Mrs E has said that Aviva 
Ref: DRN75749824shouldnt have contacted an expert without their knowledge but as Aviva  was handling the 
claim, I dont  think this was unreasonable. Theres no evidence that any contact  from Aviva  
caused any problems  for any of the experts. 
Mrs E says Avivas communication with an expert was inappropriate and he refused to be 
involved. However, the recording of this call isnt available and so I cant  conclude  that 
Avivas contact was unreasonable or that any threats were  made.  
Ive reviewed the claims handlers correspondence  and although he hasnt used  plain 
English, I dont think this was unreasonable as he was dealing with a loss assessor,  Mrs Es 
representative, who is a professional. 
Complaints handling 
Our investigator said complaints handling isnt a regulated activity  and so she couldnt  
comment . However, as the complaints handling is connected to the complaint about a 
regulated activity, I will address it in my decision.
Ive seen that the complaints were  referred to the complaints department and three  different 
responses were sent  the claims handler  did respond and apologise but Mrs E said she 
wanted the matter  to be escalated and it was  and so I dont  think  any loss has been  
caused as a result.
Overall, I dont  think Aviva has done anything  wrong. I appreciate Mrs E will be disappointed 
in my decision, but I have based  my decision on the evidence available to me. 
Ref: DRN75749825my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Mrs Es complaint  should  be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Yours sincerely
Shamaila Hussain 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7574982