K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  (Admiral) handled two 
claims made  against his home insurance  policy.
background 
In March 2018 a pipe in Mr Fs loft split and caused flooding to his property. Mr F made a 
claim under his home insurance policy for escape  of water and, as a result,  Admiral  
arranged for dehumidifiers to be installed in the property to assist  in drying it out before  it 
was able to begin works  on the property.
The dehumidifiers were  due to be taken out of the property in early June (subject to testing 
showing that the property had dried out sufficiently)  but this appointment needed  to be 
delayed to the following week due to staff illness. During that week, Mr Fs home  was 
burgled. His two back doors  were  smashed and some of his own contents were stolen as 
well as the dehumidifiers. Mr F believes the dehumidifiers compromised the security of his 
property and led to the burglary.
Mr F is unhappy  with how Admiral handled these two claims.  He says there were 
unnecessary delays. And he is unhappy  that Admiral  only offered him a one-bedroom 
property as alternative accommodation  when  his own property was uninhabitable as his 
property is a four-bedroom  house. Mr F says he needed the additional bedrooms to allow his 
daughters to stay with him, which they were unable to do for a long period of time. Mr F says 
Admirals handling  of this case has caused him a significant amount of stress  and would like 
to be compensated  for this.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In short, he said that 
Admiral were entitled to only offer a one-bedroom property  as alternative accommodation 
under the terms  of the policy as it was only Mr F living there.  And as Mr F ended up living  
with his girlfriend  and Admiral paid him a generous disturbance allowance  of £1,100 per 
month, he thought  Admiral had done  enough in relation to this issue.  He agreed there had 
been delays so thought  the compensation should be increased to a total of £650.
Admiral agreed with our investigators recommendations,  but Mr F didnt agree. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Mr F says he believes the dehumidifiers compromised the security of his property but hasnt 
provided any evidence  to show why he thinks this is the case.  Putting dehumidifiers  in a 
property is common practice in a claim involving an escape of water as it is necessary for the 
insurer to dry out the property before beginning any works  and I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Admiral  did anything  wrong in this respect or that the burglary was linked to the 
dehumidifiers.
Ref: DRN75516612Mr F is unhappy  that he was only offered a one-bedroom property. This was because  he 
was the only permanent resident at his property so under the terms of the policy,  Admiral 
only needed to rehome him. I can appreciate  that moving to a smaller property would have 
been inconvenient, but Admiral were only obliged to find a property suitable for Mr F  not 
one that was a comparable  size to his own property. And in any case, he ultimately declined 
the alternative accommodation and moved  in with his girlfriend. Admiral  paid his girlfriend 
£1,100 per month while Mr F stayed with her, which I think  is a generous  offer in the 
circumstances, so I dont  think  admiral needs  to take any further action in this respect.
I have also considered the delays and customer service received by Mr F, which I agree at 
times has fallen below the level of service he reasonably ought to expect. I can see there 
were delays throughout the handling  of Mr Fs claim and that he wasnt regularly kept up to 
date with the progress of it. And even after Admiral  offered to call him weekly  with a progress 
update, this didnt happen  which must  have been incredibly frustrating.
But I can also see that some of the delays and what Mr F perceived to be poor customer 
service was as a result of Admiral validating the claims. This situation was unusual  to 
make two claims so close together  and Admiral had concerns  about that, which  it needed 
to check before proceeding with the claim. I realise this did cause a delay and that Mr F was 
frustrated with the way he was spoken  to. But Admiral needed to check the information it had 
been given  and I dont  think that was unreasonable in the circumstances.
So taking everything into account, I agree with our investigator that the total compensation 
should be increased to £650  to reflect the distress  and inconvenience caused by Admirals  
handling of the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
should pay Mr F a total of £650 compensation including the amounts previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7551661