K821x#15complaint
Miss J says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Sunny provided to Miss J between August 2015
and September  2015. Miss Js borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate Taken
Date 
RepaidInstalments   AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 10/08/2015 28/08/2015 6 £100.00 £27.98
2 12/08/2015 28/08/2015 6 £150.00 £69.47
3 15/08/2015 28/08/2015 6 £500.00 £205.37
4 28/08/2015 30/09/2015 6 £850.00 £255.70
5 03/09/2015 30/09/2015 6 £50.00 £270.21
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Js complaint and thought the loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have
been given as Miss J as she had existing pay day loans and was having issues managing 
her finances.  Sunny  disagreed that it was wrong to provide these  loans and it carried out 
adequate checks. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss J could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly and 
reasonably have done more able for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN74556082refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Miss J could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to do any more  when it lent Miss J loans 1 to 3. 
Miss J didnt  disagree with this so I wont be making further findings on these loans, but I 
have considered them when looking at Miss Js borrowing history  and her financial situation 
overall.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Js complaint and said that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been 
given as Miss J was struggling  with her finances.  This was based on the borrowing history to 
date with Sunny.  Sunny  didnt agree, and said it carried  out a sufficient and robust credit 
worthiness assessment. 
I agree  that Sunny shouldnt  have  given Miss J loans 4 and 5 and Ill explain why.
By loan 4 I think Sunny shouldve carried out further  checks to obtain  a clearer  picture of 
Miss Js financial  circumstances. Miss J had taken 4 loans in quick succession  with Sunny. 
And Miss Js borrowing pattern by this stage suggested she wasnt in a position to repay her 
loans without further borrowing. This is especially the case as loan 4 was for a higher 
amount. I think if Sunny  had carried out proportionate checks  it wouldve  seen that Miss J 
would not have been able to meet her commitments  given her monthly disposable income  
which based on the information  that was available was only £84. Given the repayment for 
loan 4 was for £255.70 I think this information  shouldve prompted a more thorough 
assessment of Miss Js ability to sustainably repay  the loan. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 and Sunny should put things right
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Miss J loans four and five.
Ref: DRN74556083A.)Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Miss J towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third 
party where applicable, but not including anything Sunny  has already refunded.
B.)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by Miss 
J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.)Sunny  should  pay Miss J the total of A plus B.
D.)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Miss Js credit 
file in relation  to loans four and five. If Sunny has sold any of the loans  you should 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give
Miss J a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Js complaint. Elevate Credit International
Limited should pay put things right for Miss J as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Miss J to accept  or reject my decision
before 20 March 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7455608