K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Stargate  Capital Management  Limited (SCM) misled  her about its FX
Perpetual fund and managed the fund poorly.
background
In or around April 2016, Mrs S invested £56, 517.09,  with SCM in its discretionary  managed  
FX Perpetual fund.  By July 2017 the final surrender value was £50, 438.28.
In 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  the regulator,  undertook  an investigation 
into SCM and subsequently  issued two Supervisory Notices, resulting  in the closure  of the 
fund. Mrs S relies upon the findings  made by the regulator and says she was given  
misleading information about the investment and it was poorly managed  by SCM.
SCM say this investment  was suitable  for Mrs S and she was aware that it was high risk.
They say the FCA were mistaken  in reaching  their conclusions and misunderstood the 
strategy used to run the fund. They maintain that the FCA unfairly forced  closure of the FX
Perpetual fund which caused losses. SCM say the closure led to claims against  the backstop  
becoming invalidated and accounts were closed before  their account anniversary, which 
meant that surrender values applied.
Our investigator thought that Mrs S was willing and able to accept the risks of an 
arrangement where her money would be used  to trade currency  CFDs (contracts for 
difference) but she thought some of the key risks and features of the FX Perpetual service  
were either misleadingly presented or not made sufficiently clear.  She thought it was unlikely 
that Mrs S would have  invested had things been  presented fairly. Our investigator asked
SCM to refund Mrs Ss losses plus 8% interest  calculated from 7 July 2017.
SCM didnt agree with the view, so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019,  in which  I upheld  the complaint. Both parties 
have now reviewed that decision.  Mrs S agrees with it, SCM disagree. In essence, SCM say:
1.clear warnings were given about  this complex and risky investment;
2.it isnt possible to give full information to every investor, as their needs vary;
3.the algorithms  worked  so that there would always be open positions  which  were at a 
loss;
4.Mrs S elected to continue with the fund after receiving a letter  from the FCA in 
February 2017;
5.the BSF was provided by a third party and the closure  of the fund by the FCA meant  
the BSF could not operate in any event;
6.it is unfair to award 8% interest as it is unknown what Mrs S would have done with 
the funds. If she had invested  elsewhere  she might have  made a loss and if she had 
kept the funds  in cash, she would not have achieved this level of return;
7.the outcome  in the provisional decision saves Mrs S from her own incaution.
Ive considered the matters raised by SCM and Ive looked at everything again  in order  to 
reach a final decision.
Ref: DRN75826442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points raised  by SCM, but Im not persuaded they change my 
decision.
As I explained in the provisional  decision:
suitability
Its not disputed  that Mrs S was a high net worth individual with relevant, investment 
experience. It is fair to say that investing  in trading currency  CFDs was not unsuitable for 
her.
But Ive looked  at this specific fund and for the reasons set out below, I dont think  Mrs S was 
given clear and fair information about its performance and the level of risk associated  with it.
Had fair information been provided, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs S wouldnt 
have invested  in the fund.
There are three main areas of concern:
1. Performance  data,
2. Loss on introduction and withdrawal,
3. Fundamental  lack of understanding around  the operation of the basket stop.
performance data
SCM held the fund out as being successful. But SCM now accept that the fund was 
marketed by reporting closed trade  P&L. In other words the figures  presented didnt include 
open positions. These positions represented  losses which  had effectively been crystallised 
due to hedging, but hadnt been  realised  by closing the trades. The FCA investigation 
identified that open losses were not being  captured  in the performance data.
The fund had lost around £185,000 by January 2016. But as these losses  hadnt been  
realised at the time Mrs S invested, they werent  shown  in the performance data available  to 
her. So the success  of the fund was misrepresented. Additional losses  of £221,000 were 
accrued in October 2016. In not crystallising these losses,  SCM were able to manipulate the 
data and as a consequence, the apparent success of the fund.
Whilst I agree that past performance might  not indicate how a fund will perform in the future,
I think performance would have been a factor that Mrs S would have taken into account  
when deciding whether or not to invest.  Im not satisfied that Mrs S wouldve invested  had 
the true picture of the extent of losses been presented.
loss on introduction and withdrawals
The client  terms in the application form state  that clients accounts will be added to the MAM 
Master Account, from which they will be allocated a proportion of the open  trades.  These 
trades could close for both a negative and positive  value  and would  be added to the clients 
account. The terms further state  that withdrawals will be given a surrender  value,  calculated  
Ref: DRN75826443by the current account  balance  minus  the accounts  percentage  allocation  of the trades open 
on the MAM  Master Account.
So there was a real and material risk that investors would be allocated  a loss from the 
master account, which  would negatively impact the value of their investment at the time of 
surrender.
SCMs response to the existence of this risk is muddled. They have claimed that investors 
didnt inherit any of the open trade drawdown  and were not allocated  losses on the guardian  
hedges, so new account holders were  unaffected. But in response to recent  questions  they 
concede that the algorithms  were  designed to take positions against  the trend opening at a 
loss and new investors had to take portions of the open loss positions  as SCM couldnt stop 
the algorithms  trading  when the new investors  came in. So the reality was that new investors  
were immediately allocated losses and SCM took a risk with new investors money  that the 
trend would reverse  and the positions would close at a profit.
In my view this risk of losses  being  added from the MAM, wasnt  brought clearly to the 
attention of new investors. The terms were not prominent or highlighted in the application 
form, being embedded at page 6, in a list of general  terms.  And I havent seen anything  else 
from SCM to show  that Mrs S was warned about these potential losses from the main 
account, and the impact  they could have  on the return  on her investment. The thrust  of
SCMs submission about  this matter has been  to downplay the risk. In my view,  the risk of 
losses being allocated  from the main account  to individual investor accounts would have 
been a relevant factor for Mrs S to consider when deciding whether or not to invest.
basket stop facility
Ive read the information about  the basket stop facility (BSF) in an FX Perpetual brochure. It 
says that investors  can recover their net losses from the BSF on the anniversary of opening 
an account. This is repeated in a corporate  undertaking  set out in a leaflet about  the fund 
headed Your Accounts  and Risk. At the top of the second page it says investors  are 
entitled to claim back, net trading losses suffered due to a failure of the algorithms to 
generate an annualised realised trade profit. So investors would reasonably have believed 
that trading risks were significantly reduced, by the opportunity to reclaim losses  through the 
BSF. And this message  was re-enforced in the brochure which held the BSF out as a 
technique employed to mitigate  trading  risks.
But the reality was different. The facility was only available  for realised losses. The FCA 
investigation identified  that losses were not being realised and instead remained fully 
hedged. In practice,  open positions  were  being held for extended periods of time, with the 
result that investors couldnt claim against  the BSF as the losses  werent being crystallised.
By March 2017, unrealised losses totalled £368,  000 around  18% of FX Perpetuals total net 
assets.
The brochure says that open trade  positions are not taken into consideration when  applying  
the BSF.  The Your Accounts and Risk leaflet says at the very end that unrealised  trade 
positions are not taken  into consideration when applying the corporate undertaking. These 
matters were not highlighted. And from what Ive seen, the extended holding of open  
positions and the delay  in realising losses wasnt explained to investors and wasnt  evident  
from the performance data (as explained above). This was important information  because it
Ref: DRN75826444had a direct  impact on investors ability to assess the true likelihood of being able to make a 
claim against the BSF. In my view the information  given about  the basket stop was 
misleading.
SCM say the hedged  basket drawdown was around  22% in January 2017 and this had 
reduced to 10% of the value of the fund via profit offset by June 2017. They say if the FCA 
hadnt forced closure of the fund,  the hedge margin drawdown would  have been  potentially 
eliminated by October 2017. In other words, SCM say their strategy  was working.
It may be that there  had been  a reduction in the hedged basket drawdown at this time, but
SCM fail to grasp that as future performance  couldnt be guaranteed,  it was misleading to 
give reassurance that a profit would be generated to off-set any losses.  SCM didnt clearly 
explain that it was also possible  that the percentage drawdown could increase over time.
And if investors then exited the fund, their losses would  be higher.
Ive also looked  at how the guardian hedge operated in practice.  SCM say that rather  than 
close trades showing a loss, they took a hedge trade in the opposite direction.  That hedge  
was then tactically unwound to smooth the losses and give a profit on the overall position.
But once the hedge  was put on, the loss was effectively realised and the balance  of the 
running account wouldnt change, even if the market  went  up or down. The losses  would 
only be recouped  by timing the unwinding of the hedges with favourable  market  conditions.
In effect, that is the same as placing  a new trade  and hoping it makes a profit.  SCM were  
hoping to trade out of the losses over time.  The guardian  hedge  simply hid the existing 
losses, during the period SCM were trying  to trade to recoup them.  So the existence  of the 
guardian hedge didnt alter the inherent risks in trading  currency.  And in my view it was 
misleading to suggest that it did.
SCM say that a smoothing  strategy  was applied,  designed to provide investors with a 
smoothed return similar to that of a life company with profits investments. Im particularly 
concerned by the analogy  drawn by SCM between this forex trading fund and a with profits 
life policy. A discretionary  managed forex  trading account simply isnt comparable with a with 
profits life policy. The products are entirely different. One is a high risk investment designed 
to bring short to medium term gains, whilst the other is a relatively low risk investment 
designed to pay the cost of a specific life assurance  policy over the long-term. And the level 
of risk with each investment is significantly different. A forex  trading account  being a high 
risk, leveraged product; a with profits  bond being  suitable for those with a much  more 
cautious attitude to risk.
This unrealistic analogy evidences a fundamental lack of understanding  by SCM as to the 
risks involved with the fund they were promoting and managing. This conclusion was also 
reached by the FCA. It bolsters my view that SCM likely misrepresented  the risks with the 
fund to Mrs S. Ive also noted that the FCA found the BSF was being operated solely in the 
interests of SCM and a third party, to the detriment  of SCMs clients.
Mrs S has been clear that she feels SCM treated her unfairly. I think  it is unlikely that Mrs S 
would have chosen to invest in this fund had she been provided with fair information about  
its performance, the allocation of losses from the MAM account and the reality of basket  stop 
strategy. So SCM needs to put things  right for Mrs S.
putting things  right
Ref: DRN75826445I cant fairly say what Mrs S might  have done with her funds  if she hadnt made this 
investment. So I think its fair and reasonable to put Mrs S back into the position as if the 
investment hadnt  been made.  So SCM should refund Mrs S losses  and pay 8% on that sum 
from 7 July 2017 to date of settlement.
 
response to provisional  decision 
Looking at the additional points raised by SCM, Ive already said that the nature of the 
investment, trading in currency CFDs, was suitable  for Mrs S given her particular 
circumstances. And I agree there  were  some general risk warnings. But the crux of this 
complaint concerns misleading information  being given about the particular fund and Im still 
not satisfied that SCM has raised  anything new about this. 
SCM state that the algorithms worked so there  would be open  positions at a loss. But SCM 
still fail to grasp that it was the failure to capture the open positions  at a loss in the 
performance data, which  meant  that misleading  figures were relied upon when promoting the 
fund.
Further, for the reasons Ive already given, it wasnt made clear to investors that they would 
be allocated open  positions at a loss from the main  account.
It remains my view that SCM held out the BSF as being a means  of reducing the risk of loss 
from the investment.  They issued  the brochure  on the FX Perpetual  Fund. Despite  being  
aware that open positions were being  held at a loss, they didnt explain this clearly or set out 
how this affected  the operation of the BSF.
SCM essentially say Mrs S losses  are down to her own incaution  and its disingenuous  to 
say Mrs S didnt fully understand the risk she was taking. I dont agree. Mrs S wasnt in a 
position to understand the risks Ive identified because they werent highlighted, being either 
hidden or misrepresented.  That meant  Mrs S wasnt  able to make a proper assessment of 
the risk with this particular  fund. In my view, SCM still fail to grasp how this particular 
complaint has been framed.
So for all the reasons  given above, I am upholding this complaint.
It remains my view that it would be fair and reasonable to refund Mrs Ss losses, namely the 
difference between  her initial  investment  and the final surrender value plus interest. 
SCM say the use of an interest rate of 8% is unfair, as I cant  say what Mrs S wouldve done 
with the funds. Mrs S could have made  a loss or a profit had she invested elsewhere. But an 
award of interest  is not meant to reflect the return Mrs S would have received. It is meant to 
compensate Mrs S for being kept out of her money  for a period of time. Ive taken into 
account that Mrs S has been deprived of the funds because she was misled into making this 
investment. So I am satisfied the use of 8% is fair, to account for the wide range of 
possibilities and Mrs S having been  deprived  of the use of her money.
So in these  circumstances,  I think its fair and reasonable for SCM to pay 8% simple interest 
on the losses set out above from 7 July 2017 to date of settlement.
Ref: DRN75826446my final decision
I am upholding  this complaint. I direct SCM to refund  Mrs S losses  and pay 8% simple  
interest on that sum from 7 July 2017 to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7582644