K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C dont think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use their 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  compensation to reduce the debts from which  they were 
discharged when their protected  trust deed  came to an end in April 2014.
Mr and Mrs C felt strongly that the joint loans werent part of the trust deed which  was 
discharged in 2011. Only the loan in Mrs Cs name  was included  in the trust deed and that 
RBS shouldnt use the money  due to Mr C to clear a debt in Mrs Cs sole name.
background
In November 2019, I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I wasnt  intending 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms 
part of my final decision.
Following receipt of my provisional decision,  RBS said it didnt wish to add anything  further in 
relation to this complaint. But it did clarify that my provisional decision incorrectly  stated  the 
outstanding balance for Mr C as £7,642.42  when it should in fact have read £7,462.42.  And 
further it stated that a total of £11,764.10 in redress was paid to clear the balances, not 
£11,649.85 as stated  in my provisional decision.  This figure  altered because  of additional 
interest.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond  to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
In my provisional decision (attached)  I mentioned  that some court cases had been  heard 
which considered  who PPI compensation should  be paid to when a consumer has been 
discharged from a protected trust deed.
In one of the court  cases, Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. the court  
said RBS couldnt  use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which they 
were discharged when  the trust deed came to an end. But I explained  that this was being 
appealed by RBS  and that the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN75434622Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
deed ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended the debtor was discharged from her 
debts, so there was no longer any debt owing  from her to the bank which  could be subject to 
set-off.
At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
Mr and Mrs C have not responded  to my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in it. 
RBS lost the appeal. However,  as explained in my provisional decision  I have  considered 
the relevant law. And when I initially gave  my provisional decision,  I did so when the law had 
already found  in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal  position  
within Scots  law about what happens when  consumer  is discharged  from their trust deed 
(although Im mindful as Ive said above,  RBS maybe appealing this further to the Supreme 
Court). But as I also explained in my provisional decision, whilst I take into account the 
relevant law  Im not bound to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching test of whats  fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  as required of 
me through  FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Mr and Mrs C  when Mr and Mrs C, because  of the trust deed, now wont  ever 
have to repay the monies borrowed and left unpaid.
So, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75434623Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C dont think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use their payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debts from which  they were  discharged  when 
their protected  trust deed came to an end in April 2014.
Mr and Mrs C felt strongly that the joint loans werent part of the trust deed which  was discharged in 
2011. Only the loan in Mrs Cs name was included  in the trust deed and that RBS shouldnt use the 
money due to Mr C to clear  a debt in Mrs Cs sole name.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a number of loans  between November 1994  and February  2002. Some  were  in 
joint names and some were in the name of Mrs C only. At the same time they took out PPI policies to 
protect their repayments.
In March 2008  Mr and Mrs C entered  into a trust deed as they were unable to pay all their debts when 
they fell due. This became  a protected trust deed for their creditors.  This is an alternative in Scotland  
to bankruptcy (called  sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement  between  a 
consumer and their creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
RBS records show that following the completion of the trust deed in 2014, Mr Cs outstanding  balance 
was £7642.42 (including a joint current account with Mrs C) and Mrs Cs outstanding  balance was 
over £34,000 which included the £7642.42  for the joint account and a further £26,651.20 for the loan 
account in her sole name. While RBS didnt chase for the outstanding  sums the debt still existed. So a 
substantial amount of debt was left unrecovered from Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C complained to RBS about the mis-sale  of these policies in January 2018.  RBS upheld  
the complaint about the sale of the PPI policies  and offered to refund the PPI premiums and the extra 
interest that Mr and Mrs C had paid to date together with simple interest to compensate them for the 
time theyd been out of pocket.
RBS offered to pay back around  £11,649.85. RBS said it would set off Mr Cs 50% of the redress 
(£5824.92) against the balance outstanding on his accounts when his trust deed came  to an end 
which was £7,642.42. RBS said it would  set off Mrs Cs 50% of the redress against the remaining 
£1,613.20 owed on the joint account and RBS said the rest would  be set off against the sum of 
£26,651.20 owed on Mrs Cs sole loan account. To summarise the PPI redress paid to Mr and Mrs C 
reduced the joint loan balance to £0.00 and Mrs C still has an outstanding  balance of around 
£22,349.52. 
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs C signed  the acceptance forms  for all the loans. The forms also stated:
If I am, or have been, subject  to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), Protected Trust 
Deed, Bankruptcy or Sequestration, any payment will be made to the relevant account I hold 
with you. Any disbursements due under the terms of the arrangement will then be managed  
by the Groups  insolvency  team. 
I understand that the offer will take into account consideration of any arrears  on my 
account.
RBS confirmed it had used the redress to offset  against its total claim  in the trust deed. But Mr and 
Mrs C dont think the PPI compensation they were offered should be used by RBS in this way. 
Ref: DRN75434624They say that the joint loans werent  part of the trust deed which  was discharged. Only the loan in Mrs 
Cs name was included in the trust deed  and that RBS shouldnt use the money  due to Mr C to clear a 
debt in Mrs Cs sole name.
Our adjudicator said that she didnt think this complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that the way 
RBS had offered  to settle the complaint was fair. Unhappy with the adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs C 
asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.  So the matter has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
I will explain why.
As RBS has upheld Mr and Mrs Cs PPI mis-sale complaint, Ive just looked  at whether what its done 
to put things  right is fair and reasonable.  I havent looked at how the PPI policies came  to be mis-sold.  
And Mr and Mrs C havent  raised any issues about the amount of compensation offered so I also 
wont consider  this. Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that RBS has set-off the amount of compensation  to 
reduce the total loan amounts that havent been fully repaid rather  than paying  the compensation  
directly to Mr C. RBS shouldnt use the money due to Mr C to clear a debt in Mrs Cs sole name.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr and Mrs Cs 
PPI compensation offer to reduce the much higher amount of debt which they werent required to 
repay back to it (and was written off by RBS) after their protected trust deed was closed in 2014.
Ive thought carefully about  what  the law says about  protected trust deeds. In recent years there have 
been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a trust deed has been 
discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
So in this case the Supreme  Court said that the PPI compensation should  not be paid to the trustees 
for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should  be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
Ref: DRN75434625So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
In this case I am aware of and have  taken into account the relevant  law. But I must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable  to both parties, not just the relevant case law, in the 
particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  Having done  this, I think its fair for RBS to use 
the PPI compensation to reduce the money Mr and Mrs C borrowed and didnt repay.
I appreciate that RBS cant now chase Mr and Mrs C in court for the money  that they owed when they 
entered into a protected trust deed. But I can see from the evidence RBS has provided that Mr and 
Mrs C still owed a substantial amount more than they repaid off their loans. Its likely that wont now 
ever be repaid. 
Just because Mr and Mrs C entered into a protected trust deed  Mr C owing over £7000 and Mrs C 
owing over £26,000 plus her part of the joint account - and Mr and Mrs C were discharged from the 
debt when the trust deed  ended, doesnt make a difference to what is fair. I think  it would be unfair to 
tell RBS to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation when  they dont now have to repay  the borrowing which  
was still outstanding.
The fact that Mr and Mrs Cs protected trust deed had come to an end before  this offer of PPI 
compensation was made and after Mr and Mrs C were discharged from it doesnt, in my opinion make 
a difference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I dont think  anyone would  think  
it fair to require RBS to repay the PPI compensation directly to Mr and Mrs C when they dont  now 
need to pay back to RBS a much  bigger  amount which they borrowed to take out their loans. In reality 
Mr and Mrs C have borrowed considerably more from RBS than they have paid back.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of Mr and Mrs Cs 
protected trust deed.
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Im currently  minded to decide that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr and Mrs Cs 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount they owed and didnt repay when  their trust 
deed came  to an end. 
So unless comments or information I get by 5 December  2019 change  my mind, based on what  Ive 
seen so far I dont plan to ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything  more to put things right.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7543462