K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a further  loan to him when  he already  
had an existing loan.  To settle  matters he'd like his loan to revert to the amount it was 
previously.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ss complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision  I also 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. Below,  Ill again summarise the 
background to Mr Ss complaint and my provisional findings, so that all relevant information  is in 
this one decision.
Mr S says he went to a branch of Barclays to get a new card. At the time he already had 
an existing loan with Barclays for £1,200. He says a member of staff told him he should 
borrow  extra  money to bring the interest rate down. A new loan for £2,100  was opened for 
him in branch.
Mr S says he's vulnerable and can't manage his finances and Barclays  didn't explain that 
the interest  would cost more than £600 over the term of the loan and would  take four years  
to pay back.
He thinks  Barclays pressured him into borrowing extra money he didn't  need. To settle  
matters, he'd like to go back to paying his original loan because he doesn't think the new 
loan is affordable  to him.
Mr S complained to Barclays  but it didn't uphold  his complaint. Barclays  said Mr S hadnt 
made them aware he was vulnerable at the time. It didn't agree the loan was mis-sold. It 
couldn't find any evidence he was persuaded to take out the top-up  loan or that the sale of 
the loan was irresponsible. The interest rate on the top-up loan was lower  than on his 
existing loan so Barclays thought his request for further borrowing was reasonable.
Mr S wasn't  happy with Barclays' response  so he referred his complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator didn't recommend that his complaint should be upheld.  The investigator 
thought that the information provided  by Barclays showed  Mr S completed his income and 
expenditure in branch.
She thought  Barclays had assessed whether the loan was affordable to him based on 
information he'd provided and on its own internal assessment. She thought his earlier loan 
had been well managed  and he showed  no signs  of difficulty making his repayments so 
she couldn't see why further lending to him wouldn't be appropriate.  When he took out the 
new loan the APR reduced from 23.9%  to 14.6% and as the term was extended  his 
repayments  were kept at a similar  level.
She thought  Mr S had only made Barclays aware of his vulnerability after his visit so 
she didn't think  Barclays could've  been expected to take this into account at the time.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator's view. He says he didnt attend  the branch with a view to 
taking out a loan and he says he didn't provide details of his income and expenditure in 
branch.  He doesnt  think Barclays  calculated his disposable income correctly and he thinks  
the adviser may have been driven  by financial rewards.  Mr S felt pressured  into taking a new 
loan he didn't  need and this meant an additional  £300 of interest  payments.
Ref: DRN78680342In response our investigator took account of his concerns but she didn't  see any reason  why 
Barclays wouldn't have  lent more  money or that it pressurised him into doing  so. She noted 
that the payments on his initial loan were made on time and she thought the new loan was 
kept within  his affordability. She also explained  that Barclays had confirmed that members  of 
staff aren't  financially rewarded for offering products  to customers.
She appreciated that Mr S felt pressured  into taking further borrowing but she explained 
that he had a cooling  off period and he could have ended  the agreement. She also expected 
Mr S to have raised his concerns that the loan was mis-sold  with Barclays sooner.
Mr S remained unhappy  with the investigator's  second view. He didnt  think  shed dealt 
with his concerns that he didn't complete an income  and expenditure  form. And he says  he 
wasn't told about the 14 day cooling off period  at the time. He also thinks  Barclays is bound 
to say it doesn't  offer financial incentives to sell loans. He's asked  for an ombudsman' s 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt proposing to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.  I said:
I have no way of knowing for certain what was discussed when Mr S took out the new loan 
for £2,100.  In cases like this I make  my decision based on the available  evidence and what  
is more  likely  than not to have happened based on the information  I have and the wider  
circumstances.
Before agreeing  to lend to Mr S, Barclays  needed  to make proportionate checks to make  
sure he could repay the loan in a sustainable  way. There's no prescribed list of checks a 
lender should make  but these checks need to take into account a number of things such as 
how much is being lent, the repayment amounts  and the consumer's income and 
expenditure.
When a consumer complains that a business  has lent to them  irresponsibly  we don't just 
look at whether or not they could afford  to repay the credit at the time it was given,  but we 
also see if there's  another reason  why they shouldn't have  had the credit. Here, Mr S says 
Barclays shouldn't have lent to him because he's vulnerable. I haven't seen anything to 
suggest Barclays was aware of Mr S's vulnerability  at the time so I don't  think  it could  
reasonably have been expected to have taken this into account when he applied  for his new 
loan.
was the new loan affordable?
I think Barclays  did enough to check the new loan was affordable  to Mr S. It took into 
account the income  and expenditure details he'd provided and-  because Mr S was an 
existing customer-  it also completed its own internal assessment of Mr S's income  and 
expenditure to ensure he had sufficient disposable  income to make  the loan repayments .
Our investigator explained that Barclays  calculated Mr S's income as £1,601 per month  
based  on a variety of regular transactions and this excluded certain benefit  payments to him. 
She explained that the income and expenditure Barclays used showed  Mr S's income as 
£1,300 and expenditure of £662 and she explained that Barclays'  system  showed  a higher  
level of disposable income but its decision to lend was based on the lower  level of 
disposable  income Mr S declared at the time.  I've looked at the information  provided  by 
Barclays but I don't think the investigator correctly set out how Barclays reached  its decision  
to lend. I'll explain why below.
Ref: DRN78680343The investigator correctly explained  that information provided by Mr S showed  his income 
as £1,300 and expenditure of £662. In addition, Barclays explained that its own internal  
assessment of Mr S's income-  based on the regular credits to his account and excluding  
certain benefit payments  to him - amounted  to £1,601. Barclays'  internal  calculations of Mr 
S's monthly expenditure was also higher than the figure Mr S had given. So overall 
Barclays'  internal calculations resulted in a lower level of disposable income than that given  
by the information Mr S provided. Barclays confirmed to us that it based its decision  to lend 
not on the higher disposable income figure provided  by Mr S but on its own lower-  and 
more  conservative-  assessment of his disposable income.
I can see that based  on its lower internal assessment of Mr Ss disposable  income, it 
calculated that Mr S had sufficient disposable  income to make his monthly payments of 
£57.33 so I don't have any reason to think the loan wasn't affordable to him. The rate of 
interest on his new loan was significantly lower than on his previous loan and - because the 
term of the loan was extended - this meant  the payments under  his new loan were only a few 
pounds more than he'd previously been paying.
I've also looked at Mr S's bank  statements  after the new loan was made  and these don't  
show any obvious signs that he wasn't  able to afford  the new loan at the time it was made. 
I say this because his account  appears  to have been managed within his agreed  overdraft  
limit and it appears that he repaid his instalments  in full and on time.
I'm aware  Mr S disputes that he provided details of his income and expenditure  to 
Barclays.  However,  Barclays has provided information that suggests this information was 
given when  he visited the branch.
I have no way of knowing  what was discussed  during  this meeting  but even  if Mr S didn't  
provide details  of his income and expenditure to Barclays, it wouldn't alter my conclusions.  I 
say this because I've already explained above that Barclays didn't base its decision  to lend 
only on the financial  information provided by Mr S. Instead it made  its own internal  
assessment of Mr S's income and expenditure based  on its knowledge of his account.
I haven't seen anything  to suggest the new loan was mis-sold to him. I've already  explained  
that Mr S made payments under his earlier loan on time. And his statements don't show he 
was having difficulty making  the repayments under  his new loan. So I can't say the new 
loan was unaffordable.
I can see that the proceeds  of the new loan were partly used by Mr S to repay his existing  
loan. The new loan was at a significantly lower rate of interest than his existing loan and the 
term of the new loan was over a longer period so his repayments were at a similar level and 
his monthly payments increased from £51.86  to £57.33. So I can't  say Mr S was financially  
disadvantaged to a material  extent by entering  into the new loan.
I realise Mr S says he never wanted the new loan and felt pressured into taking it. I appreciate 
his concerns but I haven't seen anything to suggest this was the case.
I've been provided with a copy of the loan agreement Mr S signed. This explains that he had 
a 14 day cooling off period  in which he could  terminate his loan agreement. I realise Mr S 
says he wasn't aware of this but he signed the agreement so he was bound by the terms  and 
conditions contained  in it. And if Mr S was concerned that the loan was unaffordable  or mis-
sold I agree with the investigator that I would  have expected him to complain  about it sooner 
than he did.
Ref: DRN78680344I realise Mr S feels strongly that Barclays rewards its staff for selling  products but Barclays  
has confirmed to us that this isn't the case and I don't have any reason to doubt this.
For the above reasons I don't intend to uphold  this complaint. If Mr S is experiencing  
financia l difficulties in repaying  his loan he should get in touch with Barclays  to discuss what  
options are available to him.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached a final decision.  
However, neither  party  has done so.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further  evidence  or arguments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont  
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject 
my decision  before 14 March 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7868034