K822xcomplaint
Ms S has complained about  the way in which Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Birmingham  
Midshires and referred to here as BM) has communicated with her in relation to her 
mortgage account. Ms S says BM failed to make reasonable adjustments  for her illness and 
that having to deal with BM by telephone was extremely stressful. Ms S has asked BM to 
apologise for its poor customer service, deal with her in line with statutory guidance and pay 
compensation.
background 
Ms S has a mortgage  with BM. In 2018 there  were  a number  of telephone conversations 
between Ms S and BM about arrears on the account. In a call on 23 June 2018 Ms S asked 
BM not to telephone her because she found it upsetting. She asked for communication  only 
in writing. Despite this, BM called her once after this. BM acknowledged this was 
unacceptable and it offered compensation of £150.
Ms S was also unhappy that she was asked  if she was occupying the property, as she said 
this was intrusive and shed not been asked this before. Ms S also complained that BM had 
said it would  send a field agent to the property. This was later cancelled.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint. Having done so, he was satisfied the £150 offered by 
BM for any distress caused  by telephoning Ms S after shed made it clear she wanted to 
communicate only in writing was fair and reasonable. He didnt uphold  the rest of the 
complaint, as he was satisfied that BMs handling of the calls was acceptable.
Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review  the adjudicators findings. In 
summary shes reiterated the distress caused  by the conversation on 23 June 2018. Shes 
also explained that she didnt tell BM the extent of her illness or of the impact of it on her, but 
has clarified that this affected how she was able to articulate herself during the conversation.
Ms S is particularly upset  at being  asked by BM if she was running a business at the 
address. She also queries why a field agent was instructed  to visit her, because  shed not 
lost contact with BM. Ms S also says its inappropriate  for BM to suggest someone should  
accompany her, as this isnt appropriate  in her circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive listened to all the telephone 
call recordings  provided, and read the medical  report dated 1 October  2018  from Ms Ss GP 
which she sent to BM.
I am sorry  to see Ms S has been unwell,  and I can appreciate that worrying  about her 
mortgage must have  added to her distress. Ive taken note of everything  Ms S has said 
about her circumstances. Ive looked at the relevant  part of MCOB on dealing with 
customers in arrears,  at the Equality Act 2010 and at the guidance from the Money Advice 
Liaison Group to which  the adjudicator referred.
Ive also listened  to the eleven calls listed by the adjudicator in his letter  to Ms S sent on 
8 February 2019.  From  these Ive noted  that it was only in the call on 23 June  2018  that 
Ref: DRN73704982Ms S told BM she no longer wanted to be called on the telephone. Despite this, there was 
one further call, which BM acknowledges shouldnt have been made.
Ms S is particularly upset  at being  asked if she was living in the property or running a 
business from there. But BM is entitled to establish  either that the property  isnt being rented 
out or that its not being used for business purposes. 
Although Ms S says shes never run a business from the property, I see that in June 2018  
Ms S was listed as a company director of two limited companies.  This is information in the 
public domain, and would have been available to BM. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for BM to query whether  Ms S was running a business at the address. I also note that one of 
the companies changed its registered office to that of the mortgaged property in 
December 2018.  Both companies have now been dissolved. In the circumstances, although I 
can understand that Ms S was upset about  these questions, Im satisfied it was appropriate 
for BM to ask them.
I can understand why Ms S was unhappy about the prospect of a field agent  visiting  the 
property. She considered  this to be intrusive and unnecessary.  But where a lender has 
identified that a customer might be vulnerable, its sometimes helpful for both borrower and 
lender to discuss the situation face-to-face. I note that when Ms S made  it clear  she didnt 
want this, the visit was cancelled.
I dont think it was inappropriate  for BM to suggest  that Ms S might  want  to ask a third party 
to help her. Again,  this is something lenders will suggest where  it appears  there  might  be 
difficulty in communicating. But Im satisfied that written communication is appropriate here. 
Ms S has been able to explain her complaint to us articulately and with great  clarity, so Im 
satisfied that this is an appropriate  way for her to communicate with BM.
And, although I acknowledge how distressing Ms S found it, BM is required to remind  
customers in arrears  that, ultimately,  the property could be repossessed  if an arrangement  to 
repay the arrears  cant be made.
Under the Equality Act 2010, where  a customer tells a business  about a disability, the 
business is required to make reasonable adjustments to accommodate  that disability. 
On 1 October 2018 Ms S sent BM a report from her GP which  explained that receiving 
contact by email or phone exacerbates  her symptoms. The other GP report  on file from 
January 2018  refers  to Ms S being  unable to complete course work by a deadline. There is 
also a Money Advice Liaison  Group form about  Ms Ss health  issues. These two latter 
documents were  sent to BM on 30 June 2018. 
I dont underestimate  the distress  Ms S has experienced in dealing with BM. I dont intend  in 
any way to minimise what Ms S has been  through. But Im satisfied that it wasnt until 
23 June 2018  that Ms S explained to BM that she only wanted  to communicate in writing. 
The medical evidence  Ms S provided to BM with her complaint on 30 June 2018 and dated 
January 2018  doesnt lead me to conclude that BM would, or should,  have  been  aware  of 
Ms Ss communication preference before the phone conversation on 23 June 2018. 
And the information  from her GP which explained  that communicating by email or phone was 
stressful was only sent in October  2018.  By that date, indeed  by 23 June  2018,  BM had 
acknowledged it would only communicate in writing  with Ms S. I am sorry to note that BM 
Ref: DRN73704983didnt keep to this and that a further phone call was made. But BM has apologised for this 
and offered compensation of £150.  I think this is fair compensation  in all the circumstances.
BM has also apologised for this mistake, and I trust that, going forward, BM will be aware of 
its obligations to treat Ms S sympathetically in relation  to her mortgage arrears  and to take 
note of her disability, as per the requirements of the Equality Act 2010.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  because Im satisfied  the apology  and 
compensation of £150 offered by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I simply leave it to Ms S to decide  if she wants to accept it in settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7370498