K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited (LeasePlan) has been  of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Ms R took receipt of a new car in March 2017.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with LeasePlan but she says shes had problems with the car.
In March 2018 she returned it to the dealership complaining there was a strange noise and 
that the car occasionally lost power.
On several occasions  in March and in May 2018 the dealership  was asked  to look at this 
problem but they could  not find evidence of a fault.  Ms R therefore took the car to another  
dealership but they didnt fix the issue either  so in June  2018 she complained to LeasePlan. 
LeasePlan initially asked Ms R to take the car back  to the dealership  but when she disputed 
the benefit of that they eventually arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the 
vehicle in February 2019. The car had completed just under  13,000  miles when inspected. 
The engineer could not identify any loss of power  but he did note there was some  squealing  
evident when  the car was manoeuvring  at low speed and that the squealing stopped when 
the brakes were  lightly applied. He recommended that the car was referred  to the dealership  
for further  investigation.
A subsequent inspection  at a dealership suggested that the brake discs were  lipped and that 
all brake discs and pads should  be replaced.
LeasePlan said the engineer hadnt been  able to identify  any problem that would have  been  
there from inception of the agreement when they said they were  responsible  for the condition  
of the car. So they didnt support Ms Rs request to reject the vehicle and terminate her 
finance agreement.
Ms R therefore referred her complaint to this service and our investigator  provided an 
opinion. She noted  that Ms R had been complaining about a noise since March 2018 when 
she suggested the car would have done  a much lower mileage than when the independent  
engineer eventually identified a noise.  She was persuaded that the noise was most  probably 
due to the brake wear that had subsequently been identified and she didnt think  a 
reasonable person would expect a brand  new car to experience such  wear  in such a short 
space of time. She therefore  thought that LeasePlan should pay for the repairs to the brakes.
She also thought  it was clear that Ms R had been inconvenienced by the matter. She 
thought the complaint wasnt dealt with swiftly enough and that Ms R should  not have been  
referred back to the dealership when she complained in June 2019. She thought thered 
been unnecessary  delays  in LeasePlans investigation of the matter and she therefore 
thought that they should also pay Ms R £200  to compensate  her for the trouble and upset 
she had experienced.
LeasePlan agreed that thered been  an unsatisfactory  delay of four months when responding 
to Ms Rs complaint. So they agreed to pay £200 compensation. But they didnt agree to pay 
the cost of the brake repairs. They said there was no proof the brakes  were  the cause of the 
problem and there was no further investigation to be carried  out. They went  on to explain 
Ref: DRN75026962that thered been no proof that any problem was present when the car was supplied and that 
the first report of any problem was when the car was nine months old. So they asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint LeasePlan so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms R acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then LeasePlan, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Ms R. The car here 
was brand new so I would not expect anything to be wrong with it and I would not expect to 
see signs of wear and tear for some  time.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask LeasePlan  to put this right. 
the noise from the car
Im persuaded that the noise Ms R complained of in March 2018 was most  probably  related 
to the brake replacement  she has subsequently  had completed. I say that because:
the brakes were  repaired in November 2019  and Ms R has confirmed  the noise is not 
happening frequently although there have been  a few occasions shes  heard it. I 
think this suggests theres been an improvement as a result  of the work done. I see 
that all the work identified wasnt  completed. The discs werent replaced. But as the 
car is now working to Ms Rs satisfaction I think its fair to assume that the initial 
diagnosis may have overstated the problem;
there have been no other possible explanations  for the noise Ms R complained of 
and that the independent inspector noted  in his report. Relevant fault codes were not 
identified for instance
Ref: DRN75026963LeasePlan are right to suggest  that their responsibility is only for faults that were present or 
developing at the point of supply. But if a car hasnt  proven suitably durable the relevant 
legislation would also suggest it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The noise was first referred  to the dealership in March 2018 not in February 2019 when it 
was eventually diagnosed. Ms Rs recorded mileage in November 2019 was 20,659  so it 
seems she covers about 7,500  miles per year. I think its reasonable to suggest  the mileage 
on her car when she first reported the issue  would  have  been around this point. I dont think  
a reasonable person would expect  to experience brake wear so soon  on a brand new 
vehicle. I understand  that brake  wear  is dependent on many factors but Ive not seen 
evidence that there  are exceptional circumstances here and I therefore  think its most likely  
the brakes have  worn  too quickly and havent proven suitably durable.
In those circumstances LeasePlan are allowed one opportunity to put things right so I think 
the best resolution would  be for them to pay the repair cost of £213.69  that Ms R has 
evidenced to us. 
distress and inconvenience
LeasePlan havent disputed the need  to compensate Ms R for trouble and upset  shes  been 
caused. I think its clear there  was an unnecessary  delay between  the issue being reported 
to them  and the independent inspection being arranged and theres also been  a failure to 
identify the source  of the problem quickly enough.  Ms R has evidently had to go to the 
trouble of arranging  frequent  visits to the dealership to have the issue  diagnosed and in the 
circumstances I would  agree with the investigator that LeasePlan should pay her £200 to 
compensate her for the inconvenience shes been caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell LeasePlan UK Limited  to:
reimburse the cost of the brake repairs Ms R has had completed
pay Ms R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7502696