K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Car Finance Company  (2007)  Ltd (CFC)  has illegally repossessed 
his car. He wants CFC to refund all the money  hes paid towards  the car to date.
background
In May 2016  Mr W bought  a car using finance  provided by CFC. He was to make payments 
of about £215 a month for 32 months   after which  the car would be his. Mr W struggled to 
make the payments, and CFC agreed various delays and part-payments. But by mid-2018 
Mr Ws arrears were such that CFC told him it was going to repossess the car.
CFCs agent rang Mr W and said the car would be collected a couple  of days  later.  On the 
day itself CFC says the agent rang Mr W about  the time the car would be collected. It says 
the agent then got Mr W to sign a voluntary surrender form, collected  the keys and the 
documentation (called a V5) belonging to the car, and took it away.
Mr W called  CFC the same day to ask why the car had gone,  and after CFC sent him the 
surrender form said he hadnt  signed  it and his signature had been forged. He sent some  
CCTV footage  to CFC to show  no-one had approached the house at the relevant time and 
he suggested that instead the agent  had simply got into the car and driven it away.
CFC said it wasnt  sure the CCTV footage was for the relevant time period, but offered to 
send someone to Mr Ws house to check the original footage. That offer wasnt taken up by 
Mr W, who continued to argue that the car had been repossessed  illegally and CFC should 
return all the payments hed made.
CFC investigated, but didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, so he brought it to us.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said that, on balance, he 
thought CFC and its agent had acted legally  and Mr W had agreed to the repossession.
Mr W doesnt think this is fair and remains adamant he didnt sign the voluntary surrender 
form. Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where some of the evidence is 
contradictory, incomplete or disputed,  as it is here,  I reach my decision on what I think most  
likely occurred, given the evidence available and the wider  circumstances.
Having done so Ive come to the same  conclusions as our investigator did, and Ill explain 
why.
The records  CFC sent us show that Mr W had problems over many months making  the 
payments on this car. And its clearly  been  a struggle for him. Importantly, a few months 
before the repossession  CFCs  notes record Mr W saying that it would be cheaper for him to 
get the car repossessed and that he was going to leave it in the street for them to collect.
Mr W hasnt disagreed that CFC was legally entitled to repossess the car  instead he says 
the process on the day was illegal. He said hed paid over a third of the total required under 
Ref: DRN78213972the agreement, and in that situation  CFC needed to get a court  order, or his agreement, 
before taking the car away. I agree that this is, in summary, what  Mr Ws agreement says  
and also that hed paid over a third of the amount required.
CFC says it uses  voluntary surrender as an alternative to a court  order  often because that 
means fewer costs for the customer in the long-run. Im satisfied the agreement allows it to 
do that.
The problem here is that Mr W says he didnt sign a voluntary surrender and someone has 
forged his signature. Furthermore,  he says he wasnt  at the house at the time the agent 
called and he has CCTV footage to show the agent  made no attempt  to get a signature.  He 
says the signature  on the paperwork isnt his  and that its nothing  like his signature  on the 
agreement he signed a couple of years earlier.
CFC also said it had checked the time the agent arrived at the property  and what  happened.  
It said the agent met someone and got a signature  and that he was told the keys and the 
V5 were  in the car. He found both of those things and took the car away.
Ive looked at all the footage provided by Mr W. It doesnt show anything  other  than someone 
getting into the car and driving  it away. I cant be sure the footage shows  all that happened 
or that its for the correct  time. I say that because its common for the date and time stamp 
on home CCTV footage  to be inaccurate, for instance if it hasnt  been  altered to reflect 
British Summer Time.
CFC also said it wasnt  sure the footage was of the correct time  but it offered to visit Mr W 
at home  to check the original footage. I think that was a fair way to confirm the content of the 
footage. Mr W didnt  take CFC up on that offer.
Mr W says he received  no letters  about  the repossession, although CFC says it sent them.  
But he did get a call from the agent to arrange  the collection of the car, and was told he 
could leave the V5 and keys in the car if that suited  him. Mr W told CFC this last point is 
irrelevant as he didnt  consent to the car being  taken away.
The agent  says both the keys and V5 were in the car, as per the phone call and that the car 
had been immobilised  using  a device installed for such  purposes when Mr W bought it. The 
agent mobilised  the car after calling the office.  He also gave a description of Mr W, which  
hasnt been disputed as accurate, although Mr W says the agent could have re-visited his 
house unbeknown to him to see what he looked like. I do accept that the signature  on the 
surrender form looks different from the signature  on Mr Ws finance  agreement.
Taking all of the above into account, on balance Im not persuaded that CFC did anything  
wrong  in that I dont think Mr W has shown  me that the procedure on the day was illegal. In 
summary, Mr W was in arrears on his agreement, to a point where  CFC was legally  able to 
repossess the car. Hed had phone conversations about the repossession, including what  he 
should do with the keys and V5  which hed complied with. He hasnt been able to let CFC 
look at his original  CCTV footage  which could have clarified things one way or another. 
And, I think importantly, he didnt report the disappearance of the car to the police, which  Id 
expect him to do if he thought it had been stolen or otherwise  illegally moved.
Ref: DRN78213973my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7821397