K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC introduced changes to daily overdraft fees without 
making him aware. He says the charges are unreasonable and significantly increased the 
overall cost of his overdraft. Mr Cs also unhappy  about the amount of time he spent on the 
phone to Lloyds  trying to sort things out. 
background
Mr C had an overdraft with Lloyds.  He had a £1.090 limit and used a substantial  part of this 
for some time. In November 2017 Lloyds changed the way it charged for current  account 
overdrafts. It now charges 1p a day for every £7 borrowed each day. This replaced the 
interest, monthly fees and returned  item fees for unplanned overdrafts which  used to be 
charged all in one at the end of each month.  This resulted in Mr C paying  much more for his 
overdraft than he had before.
Mr C said he didnt receive  a letter from Lloyds outlining  its new overdraft charges. And the 
new fees tripled the charges he was paying every month. As a result he says he felt 
pressured into reducing his overdraft as fast as possible to reduce the overall  costs.  So he 
says the new overdraft fees were unreasonable. Mr C also says he had to spend  a lot of 
time on the phone with Lloyds trying to sort things out.
Mr C complained to Lloyds about the charges. Lloyds system  notes show it wrote to Mr C on 
13 August 2017  to notify him about  the changes.  Lloyds said it wouldnt revert  to their older 
charging system, but if told Mr C if he was experiencing financial difficulty  he could contact 
another team at Lloyds  to see if they could help.  It explained that this would  involve Mr C 
completing an income and expenditure assessment. 
Lloyds acknowledged  poor communications and offered to pay Mr C £50 compensation and 
£24 to cover  the cost of calls he made  to Lloyds.  Lloyds  also froze Mr Cs overdraft charges 
for a month to give him an opportunity to speak  to its Customer  Support Unit (CSU) about 
how the charges  were  affecting him. On 10 November 2017, the CSU contacted Mr C to 
discuss his account.  Mr C told the CSU he would call back  in his own time. As a result  
Lloyds removed Mr C from its CSU call back  list. 
On 5 December  2017, Mr C contacted Lloyds to let it know  he wasnt  happy  that he hadnt 
heard from the CSU. And said when he rang Lloyds  hed been transferred to a collections 
department and not the CSU. Lloyds accepted it shouldve provided Mr C better service. It 
apologised and offered to pay him £75 compensation for the inconvenience this caused.  And 
it offered him a refund  of interest charges  of £10.66  and £6.00 usage fee. Lloyds also 
extended the suppression  of Mr Cs bank charges until 31 December 2017 to allow  him time 
to speak to its CSU. Mr C accepted Lloyds offer.
Unfortunately, Lloyds didnt process the payments correctly and Mr C received £25 instead 
of the agreed  £75. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr C additional £25 compensation. So in total 
Lloyds paid Mr C £100 compensation  for poor service.
Mr C did speak to Lloyds  CSU. But he wasnt happy  with any options it offered,  which  
included a repayment plan. Instead he managed  to reduce his overdraft gradually himself  
during 2018.
Ref: DRN76949722Mr Cs still unhappy that Lloyds increased  his overdraft  charges. So he brought his complaint  
to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint.  She said Lloyds couldve provided  Mr C with 
better service when he was trying  to sort things out. But she thought it had done enough to 
put things right. She said Lloyds wrote  to Mr C about the new charges on 13 August 2017  at 
the address it held on its records.  And that overall Lloyds hadnt treated Mr C unfairly.  Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked closely  at Lloyds handling of 
Mr Cs account and its communications with him, to see if it has acted in accordance with the 
terms of the account  and treated him fairly.
should Lloyds have put Mr C on the new charging structure?
Its important first to clarify Im not making  a general finding on whether the term Lloyds 
relied on is or isnt fair. A finding like this would impact on people who dont have  complaints 
with us, some of whom  may be happy  with what has happened.  What I need to decide is 
whether Lloyds have  treated Mr C fairly  and reasonably. And this does mean considering the 
fairness of the term in so far as it affects him personally, taking into account the law.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says an unfair  term isnt binding on a consumer. An 
example it gives of a term thats likely to be unfair,  is one that allows a business  to change 
its terms unilaterally without giving a valid reason in the contract. But it also provides several 
exclusions. One of these  is a term allowing a change in charges, providing the consumer is 
told about it at the earliest opportunity, and can exit the contract. 
The relevant  terms in Mr Cs contract  are quite broad and on the face of it appear to give 
Lloyds a wide discretion to make changes to the way they charge for their account. But 
because of how they are worded, its also possible Mr C wouldnt have foreseen the kind of 
change Lloyds chose  to make when he first opened his account.  After  all, this was quite 
different to interest  rate changes theyve made before.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Lloyds  to impose new charges onto Mr Cs overdraft. 
The bank says its terms allow it to change the interest rate on overdrafts  and other charges 
connected with overdrafts. And I can see that those terms,  on the face of it, do appear to 
give it a very wide discretion to do that. They also say that the bank will give customers  
notice of any changes, and that they are free to close  their account if they dont want to 
accept those changes. Customers (such  as Mr C) dont however have the option of 
continuing under  the old terms. 
That, however,  doesnt  fully answer the question whether Lloyds could change the terms  
and indeed the structure of its charges  in the way it did. Ive already said that the 
Consumer Rights Act places some restrictions on the terms that banks and other businesses 
can rely on when dealing with consumers such as Mr C. And that it gives  examples of terms 
that are likely to be unfair. 
Ref: DRN76949723Under the terms and conditions  of the account, Lloyds is entitled to change the way it 
charges for overdrafts.  The terms also set out that Lloyds must give at least  30 days notice  
of the change. Lloyds  records show it wrote to Mr C on 13 August 2017, to let him know  
about the changes,  this was more than the usual notice. Mr C says he never  received this 
letter. Because we can never be certain a letter has been  received  our service is guided  by 
proof of dispatch. From  Lloyds records I can see that it made reasonable attempts to make  
Mr C aware of the new overdraft charges. Based on the information  I have, Im satisfied it did 
enough to highlight the changes. Im sorry  for Mr C that he didnt see this letter.  But I cant  
hold Lloyds responsible for this.
The terms of Mr Cs account allowed Mr C to exit his contract  at any time. But whether he 
could exit his contract  before the change is also a practical consideration. Its clear from 
looking at Mr Cs account statements he made considerable use of his overdraft for some 
time. So I can understand why no longer being  able to benefit from his overdraft as hed 
done in the past wouldve  been concerning for him. The change wasnt positive for him as it 
made his overdraft much more expensive. 
Mr C says he wasnt struggling  financially. But felt under pressure to try and clear  or reduce 
his overdraft as quickly  as possible in order to avoid  paying increased costs.  Ive no doubt  
that this wouldve caused Mr C some worry and upset. 
But I dont think this meant Mr C had no choice but to continue with his Lloyds account. For 
example, I havent  seen  he couldnt find a reasonable way to pay back what he owed in 
order to more easily exit his contract. Its possible Mr C might not have been able to access 
other ways  to pay off his overdraft, such as through other forms of credit.  But I havent seen 
enough evidence  to suggest that this is most likely  the case. In fact from looking at Mr Cs 
account history during  2018, I can see that Mr C managed to reduce his overdraft 
significantly  by more  than £1,000. And he hasnt said that hes in arrears elsewhere. 
So Im not persuaded he had no reasonable way to exit his contract. 
But even if I thought Mr C had no practical choice  but to accept a change that made him 
worse off, Id be unlikely to direct  Lloyds to go back to their older charging structure. I think 
this wouldnt be a pragmatic or appropriate solution,  given his overdraft could  be revoked at 
any time and the previous charging  structure  had been revoked.
Its not for this service to say generally  whether a term is or isnt unfair  within the meaning of 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015. But, having  regard to what  that Act says about  unfair  terms 
and Mr Cs circumstances, I dont think the changes that Lloyds made  were  unfair  for him.     
 
should Lloyds have done more to help?
Overall, its reasonable  to suggest the cost of Mr Cs overdraft might be having a substantial  
impact on his financial situation. Lloyds records indicate they offered to put Mr C in touch 
with their customer support unit when  he was on the phone with them.  This team looks  into 
potential ways they can help customers repay their debt. But it appears Mr C rejected their 
proposal and he doesnt seem  to have asked for help from them after this time. I think this 
shows it was trying to better  understand  what  was going on so it could offer Mr C a tailored 
level of support. So Im satisfied that Lloyds offered to explore potential  solutions with Mr C 
and did enough  to try and help him.
Ref: DRN76949724I leave it to Mr C to decide if he now wishes to contact Lloyds team. If he does, Lloyds 
should still look into how they can help him, which could  mean  a variety of things based  on 
his circumstances.  But up to this point, I think theyve done  what they needed to. 
Lloyds, in common with other banks,  must  treat customers in financial difficulty  positively and 
sympathetically. This may mean  working with the customer to find a practical way for them to 
manage their difficulty. So should Mr C want  to seek their help I expect Lloyds to treat him 
fairly.
customer service
I note that Lloyds has apologised for the service  it provided. I can see that Mr C made  
several calls to Lloyds  to try and get things sorted out. And that there  was some confusion 
about which department Mr C needed to speak to. So I can certainly appreciate that Mr C 
has experienced some worry and inconvenience trying to sort things out with Lloyds. 
Lloyds has refunded one months  interest  and overdraft charges to Mr C as a gesture of 
goodwill. It also froze the charges on his account during December whilst it looked into 
things with Mr C. Lloyds  accepted it shouldve done better. And it offered Mr C £100  
compensation for poor service. And it paid Mr C £24 to cover the costs of his calls. I think 
that given he didnt receive the banks letter about the new charges,  this was fair. 
Its not the role of this service to punish  banks for their mistakes.  Our role is to award whats  
fair and reasonable. I do think Mr C should be properly compensated for the poor service he 
received on certain  occasions. But I think Lloyds has offered Mr C enough  in order  to put 
things right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle  this 
complaint. And its up to Mr C if he wants to accept the offer. I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7694972