K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them payment  mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
in August 2002.
background
Only Mrs P was covered  by the policy.  She and Mr P say the policy  wasnt properly 
explained to them and wasnt suitable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Because  Mr and Mrs P disagree, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and I have 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Although theres  only limited information  available about the sale,  from what  Ive seen 
HSBC recommended that Mr and Mrs P tale out PPI. So HSBC  needed  to make sure that 
the PPI was suitable and that the information  it gave  Mr and Mrs P was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
HSBC also cant provide all the paperwork Mr and Mrs P signed. Thats not unusual  given 
that the sale took place quite some time ago. But I have seen evidence  that HSBCs  sales  
representative made a recommendation that Mr and Mrs P take out PPI when they were  
applying for their mortgage. 
Taking into account what I know about the how the PPI sales process  at the time worked,  
I would have expected a discussion to have taken place with HSBCs representative 
when the PPI application form was signed.  I also would have expected  Mr and Mrs P to 
look through the paperwork before they signed it, so that they would have  been  aware  
they were buying  PPI. So I think its likely  theyd have known that they had the choice not 
to buy it if they didnt want to. 
From what  Ive seen, Mrs P was eligible  for the PPI cover and not adversely affected by 
any of the main policy terms and exclusions.  Mrs P appears to have been in good health 
and in full time employment when she took out the policy. She told us about an elbow  
dislocation in 1972 and also about  having broken a bone in 1974. Given  that the PPI was 
taken out around  thirty years later, and not having seen anything to suggest  that either 
injury led to other problems or involved Mrs P taking significant amounts of time off work, I 
dont think knowing she might not have been able to claim for these  specific conditions is 
something thats likely to have affected  her and her husbands decision to take out the 
cover. 
Mrs P told us she had very generous benefits but hasnt been able to give us much 
information about them. Whilst I accept its likely that given her occupation Mrs P would 
Ref: DRN76565832have had some level of benefits  available to her if she if she couldnt  work due to accident 
or sickness, I still think that she and Mr P could have benefited from having the cover.  The 
policy would pay out for up to twelve  months if Mrs P wasnt  able to work, or if she lost her 
job. So, given their situation, I think this would ease  the pressure on household  income.  It 
also means that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have  had to look to other ways to help meet  their 
mortgage payments.  So the PPI seems to have been a benefit which could have been 
useful to Mr and Mrs P, especially as they were taking on a significant additional expense 
with their mortgage borrowing.
Given the limited information thats  still available from the sales  I can see that HSBC might  
have explained  the policy more clearly,  including giving details about the cost of the 
policy. But from the information Ive seen, together with what I know  about the PPI and the 
sales process used at the time, I dont think that better information would have changed 
Mr and Mrs Ps decision  to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant HSBC should  have  disclosed  the poor value and explained  the significance 
of the limitations  and exclusions and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. So HSBC 
Bank Plc doesnt  need to do anything  to more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656583