K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  plc recorded  a CIFAS marker against his name. He says 
this meant  he couldnt open a bank account  and he lost his job. CIFAS is one of the UKs  
fraud alert services.
Background
On 10 March 2017, Mr Hs account  was credited with £1,200. On the same day, Mr H 
withdrew £800 at a branch counter and £390 from an ATM.
Lloyds received notice from the third party bank that the £1,200  had been  taken fraudulently 
from its customers account. It wasnt  satisfied that Mr H was able to give it a clear 
explanation as to where  the funds  had come from and why hed withdrawn  them so quickly. 
So it closed his account and recorded a CIFAS  marker against him.
At the end of 2018  having been  unable  to open  an account elsewhere  Mr H complained 
to Lloyds, but it wouldnt remove the CIFAS marker.
When he brought his complaint to this service, he explained that hed been approached by 
an old friend who was expecting some money but didnt have a bank account. So Mr H 
agreed to have the money paid into his own account. As soon as the money  was received, 
he withdrew it and handed it to his friend.
My provisional decision
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. I set out my reasons as follows:
The money credited  to Mr Hs account  was a fraudulent transaction   the money had 
been debited from a third partys account without their authority or consent.  But before 
placing the CIFAS marker against  Mr Hs name, Lloyds  needed  to have a reasonable 
belief that criminal charges could be brought  against him as a result of the activity.  A 
suspicion or concern  isnt enough. So I need  to decide if theres enough  evidence  to 
show that Mr H knew  more about this than hes told us. 
I think there was enough evidence  to show that Mr H knew  about the fraud.  Let me 
explain why.
When Lloyds first contacted Mr H to tell him the funds were fraudulent and to ask him 
what had happened, it seems Mr H hung up. Its possible that the phone  line may have 
simply cut out, but in that case I would have  expected Mr H to make contact with Lloyds 
again to find out what had happened.
A month later, in response to another call from the bank,  Mr H said the money was from 
his father. Unfortunately  theres  no call recording  available of this, so I dont know  
exactly what Mr H said. But the bank says,  when it told him the money came from a 
females account, he couldnt explain  what happened. Mr H then admits  he got angry 
and swore and Lloyds ended the call.
Mr H told us that he panicked when the bank  told him the funds were fraudulent, and 
that was why he gave the explanation  he did. I accept its likely that he was very worried 
when he was told about the fraudulent activity.  But  if he had no knowledge of this  
Ref: DRN71452482I would have expected him to tell the bank exactly what had happened.  I say this 
particularly because, in the latest  explanation he gave us, Mr H said he did a favour for 
a friend  who hed bumped into and hadnt  seen for around three  years. So it wasnt a 
close friend or family  member that he felt obliged to protect.
The explanation Mr H gave us is plausible. But if this is what happened  I think,  in all 
likelihood, Mr H would have told the bank  if not during the first phone call, then at least  
when he realised his account was going  to be closed.
If the events  were as Mr H described to us, theres  no explanation as to why the money 
was withdrawn over 35 minutes in three  separate transactions. If a friend had asked him 
to accept money into his account, I would have expected  Mr H to have withdrawn the 
whole sum in one go and hand it to his friend.
As noted by our investigator,  CIFASs  standards  for recording a marker are very high. 
But I think there is enough information here for a marker to be placed against  Mr H. 
A financial crime was committed  money was paid into his account  from a third party 
account without  their authority. And Mr H agreed to that money being credited to his 
account, and withdrew  it. He failed to give a plausible explanation to the bank. The 
explanation provided to us  nearly two years after the event  is plausible.  But Mr H 
hasnt provided  the name of the friend  or been able to explain why he didnt have a bank 
account or where he said the money  was coming  from.  
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr H knowing more  about the transactions  
than hes told us. And I think Lloyds does have enough evidence to report  this matter to 
the police.
Mr H has expressed  his remorse about  what happened and Im not unsympathetic to the 
position in which he now finds  himself. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Lloyds was wrong to record a CIFAS  marker  against Mr Hs name.
Lloyds placed  the CIFAS marker  against  Mr Hs name before it had completed its 
investigation. It seems to have acted  following  the third party bank report. This was 
wrong. But it doesnt make a difference to my overall  conclusion. Ive decided  that there 
was enough evidence to record a CIFAS marker, so I wouldnt expect  the bank to 
remove it just because  it recorded it a few weeks earlier  than it should have done.
I invited both parties to provide further  comment or information. Lloyds had no further 
comment. Mr H told us how difficult its been  for him to open  another bank account which 
has impacted on his ability to keep a job. Hes worried about the impact this will continue  to 
have on him in the future.  And he said he was young  when this happened and hes learnt his 
lesson the hard way.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any information to change  my earlier conclusions. As I noted  in 
my provisional decision, Im not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr H now finds 
himself. And I have no doubt  he is genuinely sorry for what  has happened. But I have to 
consider whether the bank acted  reasonably  and fairly when it recorded  the CIFAS marker.  
Ref: DRN71452483For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I think  it did. So I dont find there is 
any obligation on it now to remove the marker because  of the impact its having on Mr H  
however difficult things are for him.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7145248