K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund debit card payments she says she 
did not make  which resulted in an overdraft on her account.
background
Ms K says that she did not make  over 85 contactless payments to a retailer  on 7 May 2017  
each for £14.99. She says that her debit  card was not out of her possession and that she 
had not told anyone her PIN. These payments  contributed  to an overdraft of just over £1,300 
on her account. And she says that this should not have been allowed by HSBC  especially 
when shed been turned  down recently  for an overdraft application for a much smaller sum.
The payments Ms K disputes started  11 minutes after a cash withdrawal for £190  that she 
accepts she made at 16:35  that day. And they went on until at least 17:07. Not all the 
payments to that retailer were contactless.  Thirteen  smaller payments were  authorised  when 
the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered.  There  were also two other 
payments with the card and PIN to a different retailer during that time period which Ms K 
originally did not dispute. She now says she did not make these either  or a series of further 
payments and cash withdrawals later that day, each for £5.
HSBC did not accept that Ms K had not authorised all the payments herself. It said that there 
was no evidence that her card had been cloned. And it did not see how a fraudster had been 
able to take her card without her knowing to make  these payments.  Ms K had told it she was 
at work at the time so it did not understand why she had not disputed the later withdrawals. 
It also said that the payments presented were considered to be a request for an informal  
overdraft, and said it was a matter for its discretion whether or not to agree this.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was no 
likely explanation of how someone had taken  Ms Ks card without  her knowing and found out 
the PIN. Ms K had not given a consistent account  of events,  and now disputed the further 
payments shed previously accepted. He concluded  that HSBC  had the discretion to allow  
authorised payments to her account  - even where these resulted in an overdraft.
Ms K did not agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I need to decide whether Ms K authorised these payments.  The relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations  2009.  These explain that a payment out of 
someones account can only be authorised if the payer consented to it. And its not enough  
for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the card and PIN was used.
Having looked  at the evidence Im satisfied that the genuine card was used here. Thats  
because some of the payments were  made  when the chip on the card was read and the 
correct PIN was entered.  And thats entirely  consistent with extra checks being made by 
HSBC during the series of contactless payments.
Ref: DRN78583212Ms K says that this pattern of payments looks odd and I agree. But what  I need  to think 
about is whether  Ms K consented to those payments being  made.  That doesnt mean she 
had to make  them herself.  And I know shes said that she has mobility issues  which  meant it 
would be difficult for her to travel  between the locations where  the card was used in the time 
available between some  of the payments. But that doesnt rule out her allowing someone  
else to use her card. 
To find that an unknown  third party acting without her authority made these payments, Id 
need to think all of the following were most likely:
-Someone was able to take her card without her knowing. And then went to the 
trouble of replacing the card in her purse somehow being  aware  of where  she would 
be later on that day. 
-That person  would also need  to have discovered her PIN even though Ms K says she 
did not disclose  it to anyone or write  it down.  
-A person in possession of her card and PIN then decided to make a series  of small 
payments for goods at the same retailer risking detection  or suspicion -  rather  than 
say attempting  to take as much money  as quickly as possible from her account. 
-Theres a reasonable explanation for the inconsistencies in her evidence.  Ms K now 
says that she did not make the payments to the other retailer. It is unclear why she 
did not dispute those at the same time when she spoke in detail with HSBC about  
what happened on 11 May 2017,  or mention it during its investigation.
Im afraid that these  are not all findings  I consider to be most likely based on the evidence  
Ive seen. So my conclusion is that Ms K authorised  these payments.
As a result I find Ms K made a series of payment requests to HSBC. And as there was 
insufficient money in her account to make  these, HSBC was entitled  under the terms and 
conditions of her account to treat these  as a request for an informal overdraft - and to decide 
to allow  an overdraft at that time. Thats regardless of whether it had turned  down  Ms Ks 
application for a formal  overdraft before.
I appreciate Ms Ks patience while this service  has considered her complaint. And I know  
she is going to be disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to find that 
HSBC has made a mistake in treating these payments as authorised and debiting them to 
her account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7858321