K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that TSB Bank Plc reduced the interest rate on his current  account  after 
promising not to. 
background
Mr L holds a Classic Plus current  account  with TSB. In May 2018 it emailed customers  
explaining that it was increasing the amount of interest it paid customers from 3% to 5%. 
TSB said this increase  was to thank customers for their patience and loyalty following 
system upgrade issues which had left some customers unable to access their account the 
previous month.   
The email  TSB sent said promised it wouldnt  reduce  the interest rate after a year. And Mr L 
took from this that the interest  rate on his account would be fixed at 5%. But on about 9 April 
2019 he received  a letter from TSB informing him that, from 2 July 2019,  the interest rate on 
his bank account would reduce to 3%.
Mr L wasnt happy about this. So, he complained to TSB. But it didnt uphold his complaint 
as it didnt think it had made an error. It said hed had the benefit of the higher  interest  rate 
for longer than a year and that it had given  him notice in line with the terms of his account.
Mr L thought TSB had reneged on its promise so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. He agreed what  TSB had 
written in its final response letter and explained  that we arent  able to tell banks what  interest  
rates to set. But Mr L disagreed and asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would  like. Ill explain why. 
From correspondence  Mr L sent to our investigator, I think  he considers this service  has 
some sort of regulatory  function. So I should make it clear at the outset were not a regulator.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service provides  informal dispute resolution. When an individual 
consumer has a complaint about a financial business (thats  within our jurisdiction) well look 
into the matter. And, if were satisfied the business  has done something  wrong,  well require 
it to put things right. But, I dont have the power  to tell TSB to change the interest  rate on the 
accounts it provides.  TSB is entitled to exercise its own commercial  judgment about that. 
And this means  I cant require it to increase the rate on Mr Ls account  as he would  like.
Having carefully considered the email notification  that Mr L received  I can understand why 
he feels TSB acted unfairly when  it decreased  the interest rate in July 2019. He says, in 
doing so, it contradicted the promise it made. And he thinks  TSB should stand by that 
promise and honour  the higher interest rate.
Ref: DRN74438772I recognise that the language TSB used when it introduced  the 5% interest rate was poorly 
chosen and raised  Mr Ls expectations. Read in isolation the wording could  create an 
impression that the increased  rate of interest wouldnt be taken away  after a year. But I think  
it would  be unreasonable to read TSBs promise as a guarantee that it would fix the interest  
rate as 5% indefinitely.  And I dont  think  thats  what TSB meant here.
I say this because  I think  its clear from the email TSB sent its customers in May 2018 that 
the sentiment  behind  the interest  rate increase  was to compensate customers after theyd 
experienced a period of difficulty  following a systems upgrade. And I think  the spirit  of TSBs 
offer was to say that it wasnt just a 12 month  bonus that would automatically revert back  
after that time, but that it intended  to keep the higher  rate for as long as was possible.  So, 
read with that in mind, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that TSB was saying  the 
increase was intended to be permanent.
TSB said it had reviewed its position  and decided that a 5% interest rate was no longer 
sustainable or reflective of the financial climate.  It isnt unreasonable for a bank  to review 
market conditions and consider its position with the rest of the industry. So I cant fairy 
conclude that TSB acted  unreasonably in doing this.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ls account  outline  in clear language  the types of changes  
TSB can make to the account.  One of the changes it can make relates to the interest it 
charges and pays its account  holders.  Its clear  from the account terms that the interest  rate 
is variable and that means it can go up and down. These terms go on to state  that for 
interest rate decreases TSB will notify customers by giving at least  two months notice. 
Here, I can see that TSB complied with this notice  period. It notified Mr L of the interest rate 
would be returning  to 3% almost  three  months before that was due to happen.  I think  this 
was helpful because it gave Mr L time to explore whether he wished to change  his banking  
arrangements before  the change came  into effect.   
I appreciate that Mr L may feel this is unfair but he was able to benefit from the increased 
rate for longer  than a year  around 14 months. I agree that TSB could have been clearer 
about how long the 5% rate might  last at the outset. But I think  it minimised  the impact  of this 
by giving Mr L nearly three months  notice that the interest rate would be returning  to 3%.
As outlined  above,  Im satisfied that the terms of Mr Ls account  allow  TSB to decrease the 
interest rate. And as it gave him the required notice I cant fairly conclude it acted 
unreasonably or did anything wrong here. It follows that I wont  be asking TSB to reinstate 
the higher interest rate or do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7443877