K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that adverse information  about their secured loan with 
OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB) was recorded  on their credit files.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a secured  loan in 2006. The loan was sold to OSB  on 25 March 2015. 
While the original loan owner continued to service the account, it did so on OSBs  behalf 
until the loan was fully transferred in November that year.
Mr and Mrs Ps loan was scheduled  to run for 10 years,  ending  in 2016. But Mr P got in 
touch with the original  loan owner  in February  2015 to make  a lump sum payment with a 
view to settling the account early.  While  they didnt make the payment that month, Mr P got 
back in touch the following month  and made  a payment of £6,000  over the phone.
Mr P called the original  loan owner in May to ask how much was outstanding  on the loan. It 
produced a redemption statement that was sent to Mr and Mrs P on 27 May 2015. This said 
that theyd need to pay £1,101.91 on or before 24 June 2015 to settle  the loan.
Mr P called the original  loan owner in July to redeem the loan. Hed understood that by this 
time, the balance required  to settle  it would be around £403. He was told that it would 
actually be around  £570, which included an administration fee of £150, an early repayment 
charge of around £4.70 and a days worth of interest. Mr P made a payment of £403,  but 
disputed the remaining amount. He said he was advised that no charges would apply  when 
he came  to settle.
Mr and Mrs P were  sent a further  redemption statement on 15 September  2015,  which  said 
that the amount required to repay the loan on or before 30 September was £165.67. Mr and 
Mrs P paid that amount on 21 September 2017, and the loan was settled.
Mr and Mrs P subsequently discovered  that the account had been  recorded on their credit 
files as missing a payment in August 2015. They  were applying  for a mortgage and believed  
this information  was affecting  their application.
Mr and Mrs P complained to the original loan owner,  who said it was now for OSB to decide  
as it had taken  over the loan. But OSB said it couldnt comment  on anything done by the 
original loan owner. With no resolution, Mr and Mrs P referred  the matter to us. And after 
some dispute, OSB accepted responsibility for the complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  last month, setting  out why I 
thought it should be upheld.
I explained firstly that I thought the information Mr and Mrs P had been given about  the 
amounts they needed to pay to settle  the loan had been correct.  I said:
Mr P called the original loan owner on 1 July 2015 with a view to paying off the 
outstanding balance. But a dispute  had arisen  as to how much that should be. Based 
on what hed been told previously, Mr P thought that should be £403. But the original 
loan owner had told him that there was a little more interest, a small early repayment  
Ref: DRN76377312charge and an administration fee (for legal work done on redemption) that had to be 
added.
Id listened  to a recording  of that call, and I thought  Mr P had been given the correct 
information. Mr P was under the impression  that no early repayment charges would 
be applied. But the majority of the additional  amount  related to an administration fee 
of £150 that would  be payable whenever  the loan was settled. It wasnt  a charge for 
settling the loan early. Such fees arent uncommon   most lenders pass  on the legal 
and administrative costs  involved  in releasing their charge against  the property in this 
way. And the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ps loan allowed for this. 
I didnt have recordings of earlier conversations,  but notes made on the account on 
27 May 2015 suggested Mr P had been  told previously that the administrative charge 
would be payable:
Mr called to ask how much is left to pay on account as paid a part 
settlement of £6000   Fig valid until 24/06/2015. £1,101.91. Mr 
said he should not have an admin fee included as he has given 
notice, adv notice is valid until 06/06/15 and waives ERC [early 
repayment charge]  not admin fee to release the charge. Mr said 
he will pay mi [monthly  instalment] due on 31/05/15  and will then 
pay remaining amount.  Adv unable to confirm exactly what this 
payment would be. New RED [redemption] figure  would give 
this...
The redemption statement issued that day also showed the administration  fee of 
£150 included  within the sum required to repay  the loan on or before 24 June 2015. 
In the event, Mr and Mrs P didnt  repay  their loan within that timeframe  anyway  
they only called to do so on 1 July, meaning a new figure  needed to be calculated.  
That had rightly  included some additional  interest and a small charge on the 
outstanding balance.
Looking at the credit file issue,  I noted that Mr and Mrs P had belatedly made the necessary 
payment to repay  the loan in full in September  having not made  any payment to the 
account in August. Ordinarily, a failure  to make a monthly payment to an active account 
would result in a marker reflecting that on the borrowers credit file. And information  recorded 
on a credit file should be fair and accurate. Here though,  I didnt think  a missed  payment 
marker was a fair and accurate reflection of what had happened.  This was because:
Mr and Mrs P had been in the process  of redeeming the account. So by August 
2015, the account balance was down to just £15.38.  Contractual  monthly  payments 
had been around  £530  which clearly they werent required  to pay by this time. The 
account information on Mr and Mrs Ps credit  file showed that payments of £530  were 
expected. So the missed  payment  marker  suggested that Mr and Mrs P had failed to 
make a payment  of £530, which clearly wasnt the case.
More broadly, the purpose of reporting arrears in this way is to indicate signs of a 
borrowers potential  financial difficulty at the earliest  opportunity.  To prospective 
lenders viewing Mr and Mrs Ps credit  file, this would  be taken as a sign that they 
were been unable to meet their commitments  at the time. Again I didnt think that was 
Ref: DRN76377313what had happened. Mr and Mrs P hadnt  been in any financial difficulty  they just 
didnt agree with the charges that had been applied to their redemption  figure.
I also couldnt see that the original  loan owner had told Mr and Mrs P of an amount 
theyd need to pay to avoid the account  being  deemed as in arrears   or that it had 
notified them  of any missed payment after the event either.
So I thought  the adverse information  should  be removed. 
I went on to consider the impact this had had on Mr and Mrs P. Theyd told us it had affected 
their mortgage application,  which had been declined due to adverse credit information. They 
said this meant they missed out on their dream  home  and had to pay a broker to source 
them a new mortgage. They were also concerned that theyd missed  out on preferential 
interest rate deals  over the years due to the impact of this information on their credit score.
I appreciated why Mr and Mrs P would have been  concerned at the possible impact  of the 
missed payment marker  on the application,  but I didnt think there  was enough evidence to 
suggest it was a sole or significant factor in the lenders decision  to decline it. There were  
many factors  that could lead to a mortgage  application being declined   an applicants credit  
score being  just one of them  even after a decision in principle is given. 
And on reviewing Mr and Mrs Ps credit  files from 2017, the missed payment  marker  at issue  
here wasnt the only adverse information present. There were  other  default,  arrangement  to 
pay and missed payment  markers relating to other accounts within the previous six years 
too. I thought these  were likely to have had at least as great an impact  on their application 
and access to other finance  deals as the missed payment marker at issue here. 
I did, however, see how this matter had caused  Mr and Mrs P some considerable trouble 
and concern. They were  understandably  concerned that it had caused them  problems with 
their first mortgage application (even  if it, in fact, hadnt). And since discovering it during that 
application around two years  ago, theyd spent a great deal of time trying to discuss  this 
matter with both the original loan owner and OSB without success, ultimately  requiring a 
complaint, our involvement  and a lengthy wait for a resolution. In the meantime, theyd been 
understandably concerned about  the ongoing impact it was having on their creditworthiness. 
So I thought  it would  be fair for OSB to pay them compensation  of £300 for this.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with nothing further to consider from either side, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms the findings and settlement I 
proposed in my provisional decision,  as Ive summarised above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require OneSavings  Bank Plc to:
Ref: DRN76377314Arrange for the adverse information  in respect  of this loan account to be removed 
from Mr and Mrs Ps credit files; and
Pay Mr and Mrs P compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7637731