K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003 by post.  Miss F says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Miss F aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Miss F has told us she wasnt aware PPI had been added to her card 
and wouldnt  have  taken  the policy if she was given a choice. Capital One has provided a 
copy of Miss Fs credit card application form. On the form the option to take PPI has been 
selected and the form has been  signed by Miss F in agreement with the selections that were 
made. So I think Capital  One made it clear that Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss F got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of she circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Miss F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
Ref: DRN78690362But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7869036