K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about the service  he received  from Pentins in relation to his pension 
and investment planning. Pentins was an appointed  representative of Professional Financial 
Planning Group Ltd (PFPG).
Mr W doesnt believe Pentins kept accurate information about his holdings  and he is 
unhappy about the way Pentins  dealt with his complaint.
background
Mr W held a Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP),  ISAs and Investment accounts which 
had been recommended  by his adviser when the adviser had been  authorised  by another  
firm. These  investments were  made  in April 2017.
In June 2018, Pentins became a representative of PFPG. 
In August  2018  Mr W told Pentins that he intended  to appoint another adviser  as he was 
dissatisfied with the performance  of his investments.
Pentins emailed Mr W on 23 August  2018  and provided figures  which they said 
demonstrated that his investments had made money  and quoted an original investment cost 
of £353,413. Mr W responded  and said he didnt agree with these figures. He said the 
original cost was £354,504  and therefore the gain was less than Pentins had suggested.
In September  2018 Mr W complained to Pentins. He said that he didnt believe the original 
advice he had been given was suitable, as the charges taken were  not reasonable when 
considered in context  of the benefit hed received from the advice. He also said that he 
believed Pentins had breached confidentiality by passing his details to a third party,  and that 
Pentins hadnt  been careful  and diligent in the records they had kept.
An adjudicator looked at this complaint  and explained that Pentins had become an 
appointed representative of the Professional Financial Group in June 2018.  This meant  that 
we wouldnt be looking at events prior to this date in this complaint. The events before June 
2018, including the original advice,  were the responsibility of another business  and would be 
considered separately.
The adjudicator considered the complaint about the accuracy of record keeping.  She said 
this stemmed from a discrepancy over the fund values given by Pentins on 23 August 2018 
as a benchmark from which they measured  performance. The adjudicators  view was that 
Pentins had provided the acquisition cost of the current  investments based  on the price of 
the units which amounted to £353,413.72  across  the portfolio.  This was made up of joint 
investments for Mr W and his wife, his ISA and pension holding  and also Mr Ws wifes ISA 
holding.
The adjudicator said she understood that Mr W was confused about the valuation  as he had 
invested a total of £354,504.49 which was £1,090.77  more.  The adjudicator noted that 
Pentins explained that their figure related to the value of the units held at the date of the 
purchase and that on 14 May 2018  some  units in the general  investment  account had 
dropped. They sais they had used this method to calculate performance due to tax planning 
reasons. 
Ref: DRN73324752The adjudicators opinion was that, whilst  Mr W had decided to transfer  away  from Pentins 
around this time, the misunderstanding over the valuation wasnt  likely to have been  a 
major factor in that decision and she noted  that Mr W had always  had access  to his online 
account which would have shown him up to date values of his investments. 
The adjudicator took the view that the figures provided by Pentins werent  incorrect  they just 
reflected a different, but not unreasonable, method of calculating performance. The different 
figures didnt demonstrate  that Pentins were keeping inaccurate records,  or that any 
inaccurate records had caused Mr W a loss.
The adjudicator also considered Mr Ws complaint that Pentins had disclosed information  to 
a third-party without his consent. She explained that because Pentins were  an authorised 
representative of PFPG,  Pentins had a responsibility to refer the complaint to them  and 
added that it wasnt  unusual, with smaller firms, for the individual adviser  to respond to a 
complaint.
Mr W didnt accept the view. He reiterated that the amount hed invested was a matter  of 
fact.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons. I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Theres little that I can add to what has already been said.  Mr W had decided  to move away 
from Pentins and get a new adviser  before there was any misunderstanding about  the sum 
invested. The calculations  Pentins  sent him were an attempt to demonstrate investment 
performance and I dont think the figures provided could truly mislead Mr W. Thats because 
he had full access to details of his investments through his online account. This meant  that 
he could check the actual amount invested just as he actually did.
Im not satisfied that the discrepancy in the figures quoted to him demonstrated any failure 
by Pentins to keep  accurate records.
I dont think Pentins did anything wrong when it passed details of the complaint on to PFPG. 
It was obliged to do this as it was a representative of PFPG and PFPG was ultimately 
responsible for the complaint. Its also true that Mr W had authorised  disclosure like this in 
the new terms he had agreed with Pentins  when  it had moved to PFPG in June 2018. Also,  
there was no reason  why the individual  adviser shouldnt respond  to the complaint in the first 
instance. Mr W was made aware  of his right to have his complaint reviewed independently 
by this service in the final response.
Ref: DRN73324753my final decision
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7332475