K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont  refund her £9,000 she lost after failing 
victim to fraud.
Background
On 8 January  2018, Mrs B made an international online payment for £9,000 to an account in 
Hong Kong. Mrs B made the payment  after her husband, Mr B, was contacted by fraudsters 
purporting to be an investment company based in Gibraltar, which I will refer to as D. 
D offered Mr B shares in a number  of companies. And told him that it was an appointed 
representative of a UK based company, which I will refer to as G. Between  April 2017 and 
December 2017,  Mr B made several  payments from a different bank to the fraudsters for just 
over £45,000, which  is subject to a separate complaint at this service.
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs B were moving to a new house,  and to cover costs, Mr B 
decided to request  a withdrawal from his investments. The fraudsters told him hed need to 
pay 10% withholding  tax in order to get his funds released from China. Convinced by what  
the fraudsters told him, and believing hed receive a hefty return on his investment, he asked 
Mrs B to make a payment of £9,000 from her HSBC account to an account based in Hong 
Kong. Mr B says the fraudsters then asked him to pay more money and he and Mrs B began 
to suspect theyd  been the victims of fraud. 
Mrs B has explained that the fraudsters set up a fake investment  account, for her husband 
and sent him paperwork including  trade confirmation  receipts, which  duped  Mr B into 
believing he was buying shares  in a number of international companies.  Mrs B says the 
fraudsters told her husband that D was properly regulated and was aligned  to G, a UK based 
company, to reassure him that his money  was safe.  She also said that Mr B had completed 
some online research into D and G. So, he was persuaded by what  the fraudsters had told 
him.
Mr B realised hed been scammed  soon  after Mrs B had sent the payment from her account,  
when he didnt receive any funds in response to his request to release his funds. So, he 
alerted his bank  and asked Mrs B to contact  HSBC to get her money back,  which she did in 
February 2018. When Mrs B initially contacted HSBC there was some confusion  about the 
purpose of the payment. HSBC say Mrs B told them the payment was for tax on furniture 
shed ordered  which hadnt arrived. So, at first, it treated Mrs Bs claim as a buyer  seller  
dispute.  
HSBC subsequently accepted Mrs B had been the victim of a scam.  But says its not liable 
for the £9,000 loss because Mrs B unwittingly authorised the payment  and it could not 
reasonably have intervened or done  more to try to recoup the money from the payees bank. 
However, HSBC accepted  it should have provided Mrs B with better service because  it didnt 
keep her updated after she first contacted the bank about the scam. HSBC  apologised and 
offered Mrs B £100  compensation. 
Mrs B didnt accept HSBCs offer and brought her complaint to our service. 
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which  I said:
Ref: DRN73694592Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently minded to 
uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1.Its common ground that Mrs B authorised the £9,000 scam payment. She and her 
husband were  duped by scammers into instructing  HSBC to transfer the money to pay 
withholding tax for shares Mr B believed hed bought via D. The scammers deceived 
Mr B over the phone and via emails into thinking  the investments were  legitimate, telling 
him it could  offer him 8 to 10% return. The scammers used the name of a genuine 
business in the UK, so Mr B believed he was dealing with a legitimate firm.
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs B was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used  her security  credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she didnt  intend the money to go to the fraudster, under the Payment  Services  
Regulations 2009, Mrs B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking into account,  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.  
Conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers (Principle  6). 
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions  that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud and financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations  were involved in 
the development of.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment. Or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm or fraud.  
4.Considering  all of this, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mrs B or whether it should have done more than it did. In particular, when 
she transferred £9,000 from her current account  to an account in Hong Kong, which  was 
an account and payee she hadnt  previously had any dealings with.
5.I thought carefully  about the payment Mrs B made. In doing  so, Ive reviewed Mrs Bs 
account statements  and the way she operated her account. I can see Mrs B doesnt 
make regular  large international transfers  out of her account to new payees. Any 
Ref: DRN73694593payments out of the account tended  to be for much  less and for everyday spending,  to 
pay a credit card account or mostly to another account in Mrs Bs name.
6.Of significance is that between May 2017 and 8 January 2018  there  was only one other 
transaction of a similar amount for £8,999  on the account  on 21 November 2017, there 
wasnt a pattern of Mrs B setting up new payees,  or of large international payments. Im 
satisfied that one large payment  made in November  2017,  doesnt show a pattern. So, I 
think the payment  of £9,000  was unusual and uncharacteristic for her and the account. 
Particularly as the payment was being  sent to a newly created international payee in 
Hong Kong. And therefore, HSBC should  have intervened and asked Mrs B some 
questions about what she was doing.  
7.I can see that when  Mrs B first contacted  HSBC  in February  2018  about the payment 
there does seem  to have been  some inconsistencies about the purpose of the payment. 
HSBCs notes show Mrs B told the bank the payment was for tax on furniture shed 
bought that hadnt arrived  a table and six chairs. Unfortunately, due to the time that has 
now passed HSBC  no longer have  any recordings of the conversations  it had with Mrs B 
at the time. So, I dont  know  what was discussed  and more  importantly what questions 
HSBC asked Mrs B about why she was supposedly paying £9,000  tax for a table and 
chairs to an account in Hong  Kong.  But I dont  think what  Mrs B told the bank at this 
point wouldve made any difference to the outcome. I say this because  given the time 
that had elapsed its likely Mrs Bs money  had already been spent by the fraudsters. So, I 
dont think HSBC  missed an opportunity here to recover Mrs Bs money  and prevent her 
from becoming a fraud victim. 
8.While  I appreciate HSBC needs  to strike  a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly  inconveniencing or delaying  legitimate payment 
requests, for the reasons Ive already explained,  I think HSBC missed  an opportunity to 
prevent Mrs B from making the payment of £9,000 on 8 January 2018.  
9.In this case, Mrs B hadnt been provided with a cover story by the scammers.  So, I think  
she would have  told HSBC what she believed to be the case  and would have  spoken  to 
her husband if she needed  more information or clarity about  the payment. Having done  
so, I think its likely that she wouldve told the bank  she was paying  tax on behalf  of her 
husband so that his investments could  be released. And she wouldve been able to 
provide the bank  with details about Mr Bs dealings with D.
10.I think at this point  HSBC wouldve  been justified in refusing to follow  Mrs Bs instruction 
to send the money. I say this because the bank was being told by a customer  that she 
was having to send a significant sum of money to Hong Kong to release  the value of 
shares she and her husband had no evidence that they owned.  This information taken 
together with the too good  to be true 10% return  Mr B was being promised, that Mrs B 
was sending money to an account  that didnt have any connection  with D or G, and was 
for being paid to release funds,  would have sounded alarm bells with HSBC.  Its 
implausible that a large international bank would have been unaware of investment 
scams of this nature. And I think its likely  HSBC  would  have identified  and explained to 
Mrs B that there was a high probability she (and her husband)  were  the unwitting  victims  
of a scam. Having  heard this, I dont think Mrs B would have proceeded to make the 
payment in January 2018.
11.My conclusions, about what is likely  to have happened if HSBC had intervened and 
asked some probing questions, are reinforced  by the fact that Mr B had done some 
Ref: DRN73694594research on the company  beforehand. This clearly shows he was trying  to verify the 
validity of the investment  company. So, had HSBC, Mrs Bs bank and trusted financial 
institution, warned  her that the investments her husband had made didnt sound 
plausible and he could  be dealing with fraudsters, Im persuaded Mrs B wouldve  wanted 
to go away and do further checks.
12.The bank could also have signposted Mrs B to make enquiries with the regulator in 
Gibraltar about D or suggested  she contacted  G. A quick check with the Gibraltar 
Financial Services Commission wouldve revealed a warning  to the public  which was 
posted on 22 August  2017 about D. The warning stated that it wasnt  a regulated  
company and had no affiliation with G. And that the public should exercise caution when 
dealing with D. Given this warning  had Mrs B contacted G directly this wouldve also 
identified the scam.  Ive no doubt  that such a discovery wouldve revealed to Mrs B that 
she was dealing with fraudsters.
13.As a matter  of good practice HSBC should have been on the lookout for unusual or out 
of character transactions. I believe the payment Mrs B made on 8 January 2018 for 
£9,000 was clearly  out of character for Mrs B. At the very basic level,  this payment was a 
change to Mrs Bs usage of the account, in that this activity  was very different to what  
had happened  for almost  a year. Therefore, I think there was a trigger,  which HSBC 
ought reasonably  to have detected and acted upon in line with its duty of care and good  
industry practice, for example by making enquiries with Mrs B about the payment. Had 
HSBC contacted Mrs B, Im persuaded they wouldve  more  than likely been able to 
detect Mrs B was being scammed  and that something was amiss. And Im persuaded 
that if HSBC had intervened it would have made a difference.
14.In light of my conclusions above, its not necessary in this case  to consider whether  the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from 
the payee bank. As the investigator explained, international banks require permission 
from their account  holders  to give the money back. Given the circumstances, I think  it 
would have been highly unlikely any consent  would  have been  obtained,  which is why 
the banks referred HSBC  to the police.  Ive also kept in mind that Mrs B made  the 
payment in January 2018, so I think its also likely,  the money was already gone by the 
time HSBC contacted  the bank overseas.
 
15.However, HSBC  accepts it should  have provided  better  service  to Mrs B and should 
have provided  Mrs B with updates  after she first reported the scam to the bank, which  
Ive no doubt would  have added to Mrs Bs stress  during which  was already an upsetting 
time for her. I can see HSBC has offered Mrs B £100 compensation before she brought 
her complaint to our service. And having  considered the impact of HSBCs  poor service,  I 
think this is a fair and reasonable  offer.
 
16.I have  also considered whether  Mrs B should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. However, its clear that up to and including  the time of 
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
that she wasnt dealing with a genuine  company.  Her husband had done some research 
and received paperwork that convinced  him he was dealing  with a genuine and regulated 
business  and I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs B to rely on her husbands 
research/paperwork. Unlike  HSBC, she wasnt aware this was a common  scam.  Im 
therefore satisfied  there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Mrs B was 
simply the unwitting and blameless  victim of a clever fraudster.
 
Ref: DRN7369459517.In these circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC  should fairly  and reasonably  reimburse 
Mrs B for the loss she suffered without any reduction together  with interest to 
compensate her for being  deprived of the money  she lost. 
18.I also think it is appropriate to make  an award of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience 
Mrs B has suffered. Shes understandably found things difficult  since  the scam.  And has 
been caused an immense amount of worry and inconvenience. In reaching that 
conclusion Im mindful that her loss was ultimately caused  by the actions of the 
fraudsters and the transactions was authorized, but HSBC  could ultimately have 
prevented the payment. 
Mrs B responded to say she accepted the provisional decision. HSBC didnt accept the 
provisional decision and made some  further points. Now both sides  have had an opportunity  
to comment I can go ahead and issue my decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated  above  
and form part of this decision. 
In response to the provisional decision, HSBC has highlighted a number of concerns, which  
Ill now address below.
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that there is a balance to be struck; and I 
appreciate the difficulties  faced by banks in meeting  competing requirements to provide 
efficient banking services  to their customers whilst also being alert to fraud. The systems 
and processes put in HSBC put in place to manage those competing demands are a matter 
for them. But I maintain  on the individual facts and circumstances  of this case, there  were  
enough triggers to alert HSBC to unusual or uncharacteristic account activity such that an 
intervention would have been  fair and reasonable  - and likely  have  prevented the loss. 
HSBC say Ive not referenced  the specific rules and regulations on which  I based  my 
provisional decision. And instead Ive referenced various overarching provisions but didnt 
explain the basis for my conclusions which are inconsistent with some, recently clarified  
legal standards.  
Im mindful that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website. But as a reminder  to HSBC, Ill now detail those  
considerations.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules,  guidance  and standards; 
codes of practice and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
Ref: DRN73694596customers account.  That was the case in July 2017, and remains  so now, and I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:   
Regulated firms like HSBC+ are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for countering the risk 
that the firm might  be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have  
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when  reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing  of terrorism requirements.  In July 2017 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures  to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through  customer 
due diligence  measures and the ongoing  monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of 
the relationship).    
The law itself also recognises that a bank may liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have  interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make  the point that the broad legal  position  that a bank is expected  
to process payments  that a customer  authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters  I have  referred  to here)  is an example of that. 
 
Over the years, the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (from April 2013) and its 
predecessor the Financial Services Authority, have issued a series of papers setting out 
examples of good and poor practice found  when  reviewing measures banks take to counter 
financial crime (including investment fraud), including:
In December 2011, PS 11/15 Financial crime: a guide for firms.
In June 2012, Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting  perpetrators 
and protecting  victims  which considered  banks  efforts to counter fraud, and in 
particular investment fraud (including boiler  room/share sale fraud) both where  their 
customer was a fraudster and where  the customer is the victim.
In April 2015 Financial crime: a guide  for firms  Part 1: A firms guide to preventing  
financial crime which consolidated  FCA guidance on financial crim based primarily 
on its predecessors thematic  reviews.
Ref: DRN73694597Examples of good practice included in the June  2012 investment fraud paper included: real 
time payment screening against a well formulated  watch list; transaction monitoring  rules 
designed to protect  specific  types of investment fraud, banks actively contacting  customers if 
suspect payments are identified; banks placing material on investment fraud  on its website; 
work to detect and prevent investment fraud being  integrated with a banks vulnerable  
customers initiative.
The FSA also explained that: we have a regulatory  remit to tackle investment fraud,  which 
has prompted our particular interest  in this area, although the lessons of this report can be 
applied to banks  handling of other types  of fraud  and criminal conduct  affecting customers.
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice in July 2017, I consider firms should in any 
event have taken  proactive  steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.   
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. Ive 
not found the banking  protocol  relevant  to Mrs Bs complaint, considering  the 
transaction didnt  take place in a HSBC branch.
In its submissions, HSBC  placed emphasis on the legal case  of Philipp vs Barclays. HSBC 
maintains that too high a standard  has been applied to what  is expected of it in terms of 
identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm. In particular, 
that theres no obligation on the bank to second-guess or question  customers  when 
processing their payment  requests.  And I should  have  explained  why I was departing from 
the legal  case. 
We have to take account of relevant law  but were not bound by it because of our wider 
fair and reasonable jurisdiction. I am aware of the recent Philipp  judgement where the judge 
took a different view about the Quincecare  duty.  I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make the point that the broad legal position  that a bank is expected  to 
process payments  that a customer  authorises  is not absolute and Quincecare (like the other  
matters I have referred to here) is an example of that. Our fair and reasonable remit also 
enables us to take account of regulatory and industry standards  beyond the narrow  legal 
duties considered in that and other court cases.  
Having done that, I dont  see any conflict in the outcome  I proposed in my provisional  
decision and relevant caselaw and/or regulatory  codes. 
I dont expect banks  to distrust their customers or act as HSBC  has suggested as amateur 
detectives or unreasonably  disrupt  legitimate transactions or ignore the general principle that 
consumers also have  a responsibility for their decisions and the payments they authorise.  
But for reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision and here, I am persuaded that it would 
have been fair and reasonable for HSBC to have intervened and asked questions  about the 
payment before processing it because
Ref: DRN73694598the payment  of £9,000  was out of kilter with recent account activity  the payment 
was sent to a newly  created international payee  in Hong Kong 
Mrs B doesnt make  regular large international transfers out of her account to new 
payees. Any payments out of the account tended  to be for much less and for 
everyday spending, to pay a credit card account or mostly to another  account in Mrs 
Bs name.
between May 2017 and 8 January 2018  there was only one other transaction  of a 
similar amount  for £8,999  on the account (which wasnt an international payment)   
on 21 November 2017, there  wasnt a pattern of Mrs B setting up new payees, or of 
large international payments. 
HSBC has pointed out that Mrs B wasnt making the investment and she had no direct  
involvement with the fraudsters  it was a third party, her husband  Mr B. So, she wouldnt 
have been able to provide much detail  even if HSBC had questioned her about  the payment, 
such as the name of the merchant in order to facilitate a check with the overseas  
ombudsman. HSBC  say it is unrealistic to expect the bank to obtain  information  from a third 
party. But I dont agree. I dont think it wouldve taken too much effort for Mrs B to obtain  the 
information from her husband  had HSBC  asked. And I dont think  it would be unexpected 
that Mrs B wouldve needed  to check with her husband if HSBC had questioned her 
sufficiently. The fact that Mrs B wouldve needed to do so, doesnt  mean  HSBC  shouldnt 
have questioned her about  the payment or that Mrs B wouldve waived away  the banks 
questions had they been asked. 
Whilst HSBC disagree  that they ought  to have intervened, they say even if they had, they 
think Mrs B would have still gone  ahead and made  the payment. And dont accept it could 
have uncovered the scam. Again, for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont  agree with this analysis. I say this because:
 the bank was being told by a customer that she was having to send a significant sum 
of money to Hong  Kong to release the value of shares she and her husband had no 
evidence that they owned
 Mrs B was sending money  to an account  that didnt have any connection with D or G 
 the promised  investment  return of 10% was too good to be true and significantly 
higher than most investments  at the time 
 HSBC could also have undertaken its own enquiries or signposted  Mrs B to make 
enquiries with the regulator in Gibraltar about D or suggested she contacted G. 
A check with the Gibraltar Financial  Services Commission wouldve revealed  a 
warning to the public  which was posted on 22 August 2017 about  D. The warning 
stated that it wasnt a regulated company and had no affiliation  with G. And that the 
public should  exercise caution when dealing with D. Given  this warning had Mrs B 
contacted G directly this wouldve also identified the scam. Ive no doubt that such a 
discovery wouldve  revealed to Mrs B that she (and her husband) were dealing  with 
fraudsters.
As set out in my provisional  decision  I remain  of the view that its implausible  that a large  
international bank such  as HSBC  would have been unaware of investment scams of this 
nature. And I think its likely HSBC would  have identified and explained to Mrs B that there  
was a high probability she (and her husband) were the unwitting victims of a scam. Having 
heard this, I dont think Mrs B would have proceeded to make the payment in January 2018.
Ref: DRN73694599As a matter  of good practice HSBC should have been on the lookout  for unusual or out of 
character transactions.  I believe  the payment Mrs B made on 8 January 2018 for £9,000 was  
out of character for Mrs B. At the very basic level, this payment  was a change  to Mrs Bs 
usage of the account, in that this activity was very different to what had happened for almost  
a year.  Therefore, I think there was a trigger, which HSBC ought  reasonably  to have  
detected and acted upon in line with its duty of care and good  industry  practice, for example 
by making enquiries  with Mrs B about the payment. Had HSBC contacted Mrs B, Im 
persuaded they wouldve  more than likely been  able to detect Mrs B was being scammed 
and that something  was amiss. And Im persuaded that if HSBC had intervened  it would 
have made  a difference.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to:
Refund Mrs B £9,000  she lost through the scam 
Pay Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience she suffered  as a result of HSBC poor service 
when she first reported the scam
Pay Mrs B £300 for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced 
HSBC should  also pay interest  on this award (save for the distress  and 
inconvenience) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the scam 
payment to the date of actual refund
Any tax lawfully due on the interest  may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction  certificate  to Mrs B so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7369459