K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, brings  a complaint about  Barclays Bank UK Plc and the way its 
increased the rate of interest  on an overdraft.
background
S does  its business banking  with Barclays. It asked Barclays for an overdraft facility back in 
2005 which was agreed for £10,000.  S is unhappy  with the  rate of interest its being charged  
for the overdraft and said it was initially agreed  at 5% above the base rate. The rate its 
currently being charged is now 14% above  and S thinks this increase  is unfair  because  it 
never agreed these  terms. S has quantified  its losses to be around £15,000 and would  like 
this money back.  
Barclays said it reviewed the overdraft facility from time to time and that it was subject  to a 
variable rate of interest. It also said it wrote to S each time it decided  to increase the rate for 
borrowing, in line with the customer agreement, and that its statements also clearly  showed 
the rate of interest  applied  to the overdrawn balance.
Our investigator explained that she was unable  to consider part of the complaint because  it 
dates back to more  than six years ago. But she said we could consider any interest  rate 
increase within  the last six years.  She concluded that Barclays had been clear  about  any 
increase in the rates it charged  and so made  no recommendations. 
S did not accepted this. In summary, it said;
Barclays is unable to produce a signed agreement  or anything that shows S agreed 
to rate increases, including the original customer agreement.
This is a complaint  we should  consider in its entirety  right back  to when it took the 
overdraft.
It did not receive any letters or notification of a rate increase, although it accepted  
this is mentioned within the statements  Barclays sent, it believes that its 
unreasonable to expect  it to pay attention to this before now.
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
events before 2011
Having carefully considered whats  been said I wont be upholding  this complaint. My 
reasons for this are similar to those already explained by our investigator,  but I thought  it 
might be helpful to respond  to the specific points  highlighted above. But before I explain the 
body of my decision, I should make clear that I also agree with how our investigator has 
applied the rules about our jurisdiction in this case.  So Ill only be able to make  a finding on 
whats happened in the last six years. 
S has asked  that we consider everything thats  happened since  it began its business 
relationship with Barclays. But our rules  say we cannot look at a complaint if it was made 
more than six years after the event complained  of; or if later,  three years from when the 
Ref: DRN79793272customer was aware,  or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint. The 
rules do, however, allow me to consider  complaints made out of time if the failure to comply  
with the time limit was as a result of exceptional  circumstances.  
In this case, the events complained about took place from 2006, when the overdraft was 
agreed. It was from this point that S was aware, or ought reasonably to have been  aware  
that the overdraft  was subject to a variable  rate of interest. As this is what  was agreed 
between them both;
interest on the overdraft  facility will be charged  at 5% above  the Banks base rate  which 
will vary
There are also no exceptional circumstances that would allow me to put this rule aside. And 
so Ill only be considering events that took place within the last six years.  To be clear, the 
reason why Im doing this is because the rules allow me to look at any specific events that 
have happened  within the last years.
increases from 2011 onwards
its not unusual  to see businesses adopting new practices to gain efficiency, for example by 
utilising of online banking  platforms  and facilities. S has been  in business for a long time and 
therefore has experienced first hand how Barclays has changed its business practices over 
time. 
I understand why S is keen for Barclays to produce  a signed agreement, showing it agreed 
to an increase on the rate of interest it was paying  for its overdraft. I understand the 
argument S is making here, it is essentially saying  without a signed  agreement,  Barclays 
cannot say its treating  its customers fairly  in this situation. But given what Ive just explained, 
its now not an unusual  set of circumstances to be in. 
S has been a customer of Barclays for many  years and so I can see why it may no longer 
hold records dating  back that far, given the passage of time thats  already  elapsed.  Im 
satisfied S agreed  to the terms initially set out by Barclays because it was awarded the 
overdraft to begin with. Barclays said that had S not agreed to the terms of borrowing at any 
point, it would have  asked S to settle what it owed  in full, which never happened.  And so, on 
balance, Im persuaded that S accepted the terms of borrowing.
S has made further  arguments about  whether this would stand up in a court  but thats not 
for me to decide. This service is an informal alternative to the courts  and I need  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And I will take into account  the relevant law 
when reaching  my decision.  
Having carefully considered Barclays  actions,  I dont  think  its treated S unreasonably. I say 
this because it gave  S the use of an overdraft for a number of years.  This borrowing was 
always subject to a variable rate of interest,  as detailed in its initial  offer letter  in 2006. This 
letter also says that the terms upon which the borrowing  was agreed could vary and that it 
would confirm this in writing if this were to happen. I think  this is a reasonable approach to 
take here and so Ive checked  to see whether  this was indeed what  happened where there 
were interest rate increases from 2011.
To be clear, there were two occasions  where  this happened, December 2013 and a year 
later in 2014. Both times,  Barclays  wrote  to S to confirm the new rate of interest. I take on 
Ref: DRN79793273board S said it never received these letters, but thats not something I could reasonably hold 
Barclays responsible  for as Im satisfied these were  sent to the address  it held for S. I also 
note S confirmed it had received regular statements from Barclays without any problems and 
the rate of interest  was clearly detailed on these too. I know S has said it didnt necessarily 
think to check this information, but again, I dont think  it fair to hold Barclays  responsible for 
this. 
As a lender,  Barclays  is entitled to decide how much it wants to charge its customers  for 
borrowing, if there are any changes to interest rates, in particular, where there  are increases, 
these must  be communicated to customers clearly   as was the case here.  Barclays  does 
not need to ask permission from its customers to increase the rate of interest it wants  to 
charge. We simply expect to see that any changes made are done  so in line with the terms 
of borrowing  and applied  in a fair and reasonable way, which  is whats happened in this 
case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7979327