K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited wont  pay her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Sadly Mrs Bs kitten was killed by a car. She made a claim for the death benefit under her 
policy. She told Red Sands her brother bought the kitten for her as a present
Red Sands  wouldnt  pay the claim. It said as Mrs B hadnt paid for the kitten she wasnt  
entitled to death benefit under  the policy. It also said Mrs B hasnt provided adequate  
evidence of proof of purchase of her cat.
Our investigator thought Red Sands should pay the claim for the cats full purchase price of 
£700, plus interest.
Red Sands  disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. The policy said You must 
provide us with proof of what you paid for your pet. Red Sands said the policy  defined  you 
as the policyholder, Mrs B, and Mrs B didnt pay for her cat. Its also recently said there were 
inconsistencies between  the purchase receipts as one was in Mrs Bs name  and one in her 
brothers name. It thought  there  hadnt been  a genuine transaction to buy Mrs Bs cat. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint. I have to decide  whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably 
declined the claim, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy pays death benefit as a percentage of the market value, the price paid or the 
amount shown in Mrs Bs schedule (whichever is less) if her cat dies during the policy  year. 
As her cat was less than a year old when he died the policy  shows that 100% of the price 
was payable.
Red Sands  cant fairly say that as Mrs B didnt pay for her cat it wont pay death benefit. Its 
not uncommon for a pet to be bought  as a gift and I think  a policyholder  could reasonably 
believe death benefit would be payable if they were the pets owner,  unless the policy 
highlighted otherwise.  
As a comparison, if Mrs B had another valuable like jewellery that had been gifted I wouldnt 
think it fair for an insurer to say she couldnt  claim for the loss of the jewellery unless  that 
was made  very clear in the policy. If it isnt clear the owner can reasonably  understand they 
are covered  for their loss to replace the item, as Mrs B wishes to buy another  cat. 
The policy term Red Sands quoted  doesnt  highlight that if a pet is bought  as a gift the death  
benefit wont be paid.  Thats  not highlighted in the policy.
There is a policy exclusion that Red Sands  wont pay any claim for more  than you paid for 
your pet. But as the policy  isnt clear that a gifted pet isnt covered for death  benefit Mrs B 
Ref: DRN70506152can reasonably  understand that exclusion to mean  Red Sands  wont pay more than the price 
paid. Mrs B has just claimed  the price paid for her cat.
Ive seen the evidence Mrs B provided  for the purchase of her cat which  reasonably meets  
the policy requirements. Theres no evidence at all to support Red Sands suggestion that 
Mrs Bs cat wasnt  bought  in a genuine transaction. Mrs B told Red Sands from the start 
that her brother bought two kittens,  one for her and one for him, and thats what  the 
documents show. Its clear Mrs Bs cat was bought for £700, which  is below the policy limit.
Red Sands  must pay Mrs B the full purchase  price of £700 as death benefit for her cat, plus 
interest as Ive detailed  below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs B £700  for her claim 
for death benefit.  Interest* must be paid at 8% from the date of claim to the date of payment.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  must make the payment to Mrs B within 
28 days of us telling it Mrs B accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs B how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7050615