K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the settlement figure on an agreement with Startline  Motor  Finance 
Limited was calculated incorrectly.
background
In March 2018 Mr D was supplied with care and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline.
Mr D repaid the agreement in August  2018.  However, he feels  that the repayment figure was 
calculated incorrectly. He says that his own calculation using the formula for calculating the 
statutory rebate shows a discrepancy.
Mr D says he entered the formula into Excel and produced a settlement figure of £8,688.69 
using the formula.  Hes unhappy because Startline quoted him a settlement figure  of 
£8937.52 plus £88.49  CCD  compensation.
In its final response,  Startline said it had generated the settlement figure in line with the 
relevant regulations.
Mr D remained  unhappy and complained to this service. He wants  to be compensated for 
the difference between Startlines settlement figure  and the figure hes calculated  himself, 
together with interest.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no reason to doubt  that 
Startline had calculated  the rebate in line with the formula.
Mr D didnt agree. He felt that this service should have checked the settlement figure using 
the formula.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement Mr D entered into with Startline was regulated  by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This sets out the procedure to be followed for early  settlement. It 
says that early settlement figures should  be calculated using the rules set out in the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004.
The regulations require lenders to work out the total interest payable as if the loan had 
remained outstanding  for the remainder of the term. This amount is then reduced by giving 
an interest rebate to reflect  that the loan is being repaid early. The regulations  allow lenders 
to defer  the date of calculation by a sum equivalent to 58 days  interest  where the agreement 
provides for credit to be repaid over a period  of more than one year.
The formula  for calculating the settlement figure is set by the regulations.  Its a complex  
formula and lenders use a computer to calculate the settlement figure.  Its outside  my remit 
to calculate the figure myself.  So Ive focussed  on whether I think Startline  has calculated the 
settlement figure in line with the regulations, based  on the information available.
Ref: DRN76597342I appreciate that Mr D feels that the settlement figure provided by Startline is wrong. He 
makes the point that it exceeds the original amount borrowed. The amount  outstanding (the 
settlement figure) can often be more than the amount borrowed because of the way interest 
is charged on a loan of this type.  During the early stages of mid or long term loans, a larger 
proportion of the monthly repayment is allocated to the interest rather than the capital. So as 
you progress through  the loan term and the remaining balance  reduces, the more  of the 
payment goes towards paying off capital.  This service isnt a regulator  of lenders, so I cant  
tell Startline to change the way it allocates  monthly repayments.
Mr D has also queried what the CCD compensation of £88.49 is. CCD refers  to the 
Consumer Credit Directive which came into effect  in February 2011. Where the amount of 
early repayment exceeds £8000, lenders are entitled to compensation for costs. The 
compensation isnt allowed to exceed 1% of the amount repaid.
Mr D has said hes calculated what he thought remains outstanding under the loan and 
came out with a figure which was several hundred pounds less than Startlines settlement 
figure. I cant  be certain of how Mr D carried out his calculation. But Ive got no reason to 
think that the calculation carried out by Startline is incorrect.  I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Startline didnt  apply  the formula in line with the regulations. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything  else.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659734