K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tesco) handling of a home  
insurance claim he made after an escape  of water at his property. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2019. I explained that I was 
intending to partially uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Tesco. For ease of reference Ill refer only to Tesco by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents/representatives.
In November 2017 Mr W suffered an escape  of water at his property which  he 
reported to his insurer  Tesco. After visiting the property, Tesco  accepted the claim 
and appointed some  contractors to complete the works it agreed were required to 
return the property  to its pre-loss condition.
Mr W is unhappy with how the claim was handled for several reasons. He says the 
whole situation  caused him significant distress  because:
He told Tesco that he had a health condition and was due to have an 
operation, but it wouldnt  provide  alternative  accommodation. He also had to 
fight to get any disturbance allowance.
The contractors workmanship was poor. They also left his house  in a mess  
which made it difficult for him to move around and caused him to cut himself 
when squeezing  through a door.
Tesco refused  to cover damage  to his stairwell,  some tiles and a kitchen  unit 
which he says are either claim related or were caused by the contractor.
Because of the outstanding issues and poor workmanship, he had to reduce 
the sale price by £15,000 when  selling the property  which  hed like Tesco to 
reimburse him.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint. She said Mr W had told Tesco  
he didnt want to move out during the works,  so she thought it had tried to 
accommodate his wishes. She thought the available pictures indicated  that the 
contractors stored most of the tools and equipment  in the kitchen, which  was the 
main area of work,  and that the items didnt appear to prevent access to the kitchen, 
fridge, cupboards  or appliances.  She said the storage might  not have been  ideal,  but 
she didnt think the storage  choices were impractical or unreasonably obstructive. 
She also said the contractor had used dust sheets and had instructions to carry out 
daily cleaning. She didnt think there  was enough evidence to show that the builders 
left Mr Ws home in an excessively untidy state.
Ref: DRN79880482In terms of the quality  of works, our investigator  explained that in situations  where  
both parties disagree  on quality of works,  we would usually expect the insurer  to 
arrange an independent inspection, to aid with our decision. In this case  that isnt 
possible as Mr W has sold the property. So, she didnt think she could reasonably 
find that the works were carried out to a poor standard.
Our investigator also didnt think it would  be fair to instruct Tesco  to reimburse  Mr W 
for the money he says he lost of the sale of the property. She said property asking 
prices arent guaranteed, so she couldnt  fairly cant say what  price a buyer might 
have offered. Overall,  she accepted that the claim wouldve caused Mr W a fair 
amount of stress. But she didnt think this stress was caused by Tesco  or its agents,  
but by the very nature of a home insurance claim   which isnt something she felt 
Tesco were responsible for.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement  has been  
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There are several  issues  that 
remain for me to decide. For ease of reference Ill address each in turn.
alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance
Mr Ws policy does  provide cover  for alternative  accommodation in situations where 
the insured property is left uninhabitable by an insured event. 
Tesco said it considered  alternative accommodation, but the property wasnt 
uninhabitable because Mr W would still have  full use of his kitchen while  the works 
were ongoing.  It said the kitchen would be cleaned at the end of each day. It also 
says Mr W told it he wanted to remain  in the property.
Ive seen the emails  between  Mr W and Tesco where he expressed his wish to stay 
in the property. And although I appreciate his mobility would be affected by the 
operation, I think Tescos decision not to offer alternative accommodation was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Tesco completed upstairs  works  during the day, 
when the bedrooms werent  in use. It covered  the kitchen floors  and counters to 
protect from dust, and arranged for a clean  at the end of each day. The cooking and 
cleaning facilities remained in working order throughout the works.  So, I dont think 
Tesco needed to provide  alternative accommodation.
Mr W said he wasnt comfortable using the cooking facilities because  of the dust and 
its impact on his health condition. I can see he raised this several times with Tesco, 
and that it eventually agreed  to pay him an amount of disturbance allowance. I 
appreciate it was likely frustrating for Mr W to have  to ask for this several times 
before it was agreed. But as the kitchen facilities were working, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Tesco  not to consider this initially. And Im pleased to see that it did 
subsequently consider  Mr Ws individual circumstances and agree to pay the 
disturbance allowance.
Overall, I think Tescos  handling of these  situations  was fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN79880483workmanship and tidiness
Mr W says the work completed by Tescos contractors was completed to a poor 
standard. He also says the contractors werent safety conscious, and that they left his 
property in a mess  which made it difficult for him to get around following his 
operation.
Looking at the available photos taken during and after the works  I cant see that any 
of the completed  works werent carried  out to a good  standard.  I have seen photos of 
some cabinets and a dishwasher which appear out of line. But Ive also seen an 
email from the contractors and notes  from Tesco  which indicate these issues  were  all 
corrected during the final snagging.
In terms of the tidiness  of the workmen, I think some level of mess and disruption is 
to be expected when a contractor is on site completing work. But Mr W has said that 
his property was also left unreasonably  untidy overnight, which prevented  him and 
his family  from using the kitchen.
I have reviewed the photos  provided by both sides. I can see that Mr Ws kitchen was 
used to store some  materials  and tools,  and I appreciate this might have been  
frustrating for him. But from what Ive seen the tools were mainly stored against walls  
or in corners  to try and minimise disruption.  It also appears the contractors covered 
the worktops and floors  during the works.
Mr W has pointed  out that he told Tesco he was due to have an operation  which 
would affect his mobility.  Ive considered  this, and whether in those particular 
circumstances more  ought to have been done  to ensure the kitchen doors werent 
partially obstructed. But from what Ive seen, the photos of the obstructions  and 
Mr Ws emails to Tesco highlighting these concerns predate his operation. And it 
does appear from the photos that the contractor tried to leave a large enough gap so 
that the kitchen  doors could be accessed.  Tesco  has also pointed  out that the 
photographs of these obstructions appear  to have been taken during daylight, which 
means the contractor  would have been  on site at the time and actively working.
Tesco considered  what Mr W said about  cutting his arm on an exposed nail when 
entering the kitchen.  It apologised if this had happened,  but in the absence  of any 
photos of the exposed  nail or Mr Ws cut, it didnt feel it needed to do anything  more. 
And in these circumstances, I think its apology,  for this issue,  was sufficient.
Mr W has also complained that the contractors  left live wiring exposed  in the kitchen 
overnight, which meant he didnt feel safe allowing his wife or son in there. There  are 
pictures of exposed wiring, but Im not able to tell from the pictures whether it is live 
or not.
I asked Tesco to comment  on this and it in turn approached the contractor. The 
contractor said it didnt  leave any live wiring  exposed  when not actively  working  on 
site. It pointed out that in the photo  of the wiring there is electrical  tape and a 
connector block on it  which indicates  safety  precautions were taken. It also pointed 
out that the picture was taken during  the day while the contractor would have  been  
on site  so it doesnt  agree that there  is any evidence that live wiring  was left 
exposed overnight.
Ref: DRN79880484Taking everything into account,  I dont think I can reasonably conclude  that Tescos  
contractor left Mr Ws property in an unreasonably  untidy state, including  leaving 
exposed live wiring, when  not on site. 
damage to stairwell, tiles and cupboard
Mr W isnt happy that Tesco didnt cover damage  to his staircase that he says was 
caused by the escape  of water. He says one of Tescos agents told him the staircase  
was warped and unsafe. He paid £400 to have the damage repaired and wants  
Tesco to reimburse  him.
I can see that Tesco did instruct  its loss adjuster  to assess  the damage  to the 
staircase. They reached the conclusion that although it was possible that part of the 
stairs had gotten  wet, they werent water damaged or unsafe. The report  they 
completed said there were several  pre-existing issues with the stairs which made 
them noisy  to walk on. It said the materials used to build the stairs werent fit for 
purpose and had been damaged by heavy use over time. It noted damage  to the 
nosing of some steps and increasing  gaps between the MDF  risers and the 
going. It pointed out that the top of the staircase was out of line with the hallway and 
the gap had been previously filled using filler.  It said none of these issues  had 
anything to do with the escape  of water.
 
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said on this subject. Based on 
what Ive seen Im more persuaded by the evidence provided by Tesco. I think its 
more likely than not that the issues with the stairs  were pre-existing. So, I dont  think  
Tesco needs  to reimburse the amount Mr W paid to have the stairs repaired.
Mr W is also unhappy that Tesco didnt  agree  to cover damage  to some kitchen floor 
tiles and a damaged cupboard.
Tesco says the floor tiles were damaged  before any repairs commenced.  It has 
provided photos taken during its initial site visit which appear to show  the damage 
was present. So, I dont  think  it was unreasonable of Tesco  not to cover  the damaged 
tiles.
 
The damaged cupboard  has a large  hole in the back panel. Mr W says this was 
caused by Tescos contractors not taking care when  removing and storing it. Tesco 
says the hole appears to be a puncture from inside the cupboard  and isnt consistent  
with damage likely to be caused while being  removed  or refitted.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments put forward by both sides. Based on the 
available evidence Im not going  to be able to decide with any certainty how the 
damage was caused. In situations like this where  the evidence  is incomplete or 
contradictory, I need to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, 
what is more likely  based on the available evidence.
 
Ref: DRN79880485From what  Ive seen of the available photos,  I agree that the damage doesnt appear  
consistent with damage  likely caused  during removal or refitting. But that doesnt 
mean it isnt consistent  with having been dropped  or roughly handled when put into 
storage. Mr W says the damage  was caused  by the contractor, but he didnt actually 
see the damage happen. Tesco says the damage was likely pre-existing, but it 
doesnt have any notes or photos from its initial visit, or taken by the contractors 
during removal, to state they noticed  pre-existing  damage.
It doesnt appear that any of the other cupboards were damaged in a similar way, or 
that this damage  is as a result of normal  wear  and tear. In my view it seems  to have 
been caused by some sort of impact   And  in the absence of any evidence  that the 
cupboard was damaged in this way before  it was removed from the wall, I find it more  
likely than not that it was damaged by the contractors during  the course of the works 
and storage.
As Mr W sold the property without paying  to repair or replace this cupboard, Im 
unable to quantify a financial loss for this damage. But I think  the damage to the 
cupboard would have caused  Mr W understandable distress.  So, I think Tesco 
should pay him £75 for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result of its 
contractors error here.
sale price
Mr W says that because  of the poor workmanship of Tescos contractors, and 
damage it caused, he lost out on £15,000  when selling the property.
Ive already covered the issues with the workmanship and damage separately.  From  
what Ive seen there isnt enough evidence to say that the work Tesco carried  out 
wasnt completed to a good  standard before  the property was sold. There are no 
photographs of poorly painted walls or incorrectly fitted units  from after all the works  
were completed. And even if there were, Id struggle to align some small cosmetic  
issues with a reduction in sale value as significant as £15,000.
Mr W and Tesco disagree on this point.  Usually in these circumstances wed instruct 
someone independent to attend the property and provide an expert  opinion.  Because 
the property has been sold this isnt possible. So, in these circumstances there  isnt 
enough evidence  for me to find that Tesco has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I said I was intending  to direct Tesco to pay Mr W £75 for the distress he experienced as a 
result of the damaged kitchen unit and its refusal to accept responsibility  for this. I asked 
both parties to send  me any further  comments and information they might want me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.  
Mr W didnt have anything further he felt he could add. But Tesco  responded with some 
further arguments about the damage to the kitchen  unit. It said:
The damage was caused by an internal source, such as something being pushed  too 
hard or far into the cupboard while it was hung on the wall
If the cupboard  had been dropped as Mr W suggests, it would expect damage to the 
corners, side panels and/or base of the unit
Ref: DRN79880486The unit was re-fitted in early March 2018,  but Mr W didnt raise  this issue  with Tesco 
until May 2018. It feels feasible  that this damage happened within that timeframe
Mr W has alleged  damage to other areas, such as the floor tiles, which have been 
proven not to have been caused  by its contractor
Having reviewed Tescos comments and re-examined the photos  of the damage to the unit, I 
found Tescos argument persuasive. I contacted Mr W to share Tescos comments  and ask 
for his response. I explained that in light of the arguments, I was minded to change my 
decision and find that the unit was most likely not damaged  by Tescos contractor.
Mr W responded with further  comments for me to consider. He said:
The photos clearly  show  the damage  was caused from the outside, pushing  inward
He made  the contractor aware  of the damage  much sooner than May 2018. He says 
the contractor agreed to put it right
The damage is in line with where a shelf should go, so if he caused the damage, he 
would have needed to remove the shelf first. The shelf was removed when the unit 
was taken down,  which is when  the damage  must have  happened
I asked Tesco to obtain comments from the contractor about Mr Ws claim that he informed 
the contractor about  the damage sooner, and that he agreed to put it right. The contractor 
said:
The damage was reported to the contractor on 16 April 2018. Mr W wanted the unit 
replacing at the same  time as other  works he felt were claim related, such as the 
damage to the floor,  which he reported at the same  time
The contractor explained that the only claim related damage left to be put right was 
refitting the kickboards  the other  works were outside of the liability of Tesco and 
not considered  to be damage caused  by the contractor or trades
From  a technical point  of view, it reiterated  that had the unit been either dropped from 
height or chucked onto the floor  it would have not been the back plate that 
sustained damage.  It would expect distortion to the shape of the unit and evidence 
of de-lamination  or dents to the corners, none of which are visible from the images  
and havent been  raised by Mr W. The damage  reported was a dent in the back  of 
the unit which would have been nailed to the structure and highly unlikely  to have 
been the only point of damage should  the unit have  been  dropped  from height  as 
alleged. 
I forwarded these  comments  to Mr W and explained that, from everything Id seen, I was 
most persuaded by Tescos theory that the damage was caused by an item being pushed  
too hard or far into the unit after it had been  refitted. I said I would consider any further 
response he wanted to provide, but unless it changed my mind, I would be finding  that the 
damage wasnt caused by Tescos  contractor.
Mr W responded and reiterated  that he felt the photos show  the damage was caused from 
the outside of the unit. He said the back of the unit is made  from ply and so designed to 
bend. He said he couldnt see how it could be damaged in the way Tesco has suggested.  
Ref: DRN79880487I asked Mr W why it took until 16 April 2018  to report the damage  to the unit. He explained 
that due to his mobility  issues following  surgery he wasnt immediately checking on the 
quality of works. I explained I found  it unlikely that it would have taken around six weeks  for 
him or a member of his household to notice  this damage. 
Mr W has since said that the damage  to the unit was reported  immediately to the contractor, 
and that he agreed  to put it right.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also thought carefully about the further evidence and arguments  provided by both sides. 
Having done so, Im most persuaded by the arguments and evidence put forward  by Tesco. 
So, as Ive already explained to borth parties by email, I no longer think  the damage  to the 
unit was most likely caused by Tescos  contractor. I think  its more likely to have been  
caused by an item being pushed too far or hard into the unit, after it had been refitted, as 
Tesco has suggested.  Ill explain why in more detail below. 
If the damage to the unit had been  caused by Tescos contractor, I would  expect it to have 
been reported fairly soon after the unit was refitted.  But Tescos  records  indicate the damage 
wasnt reported directly  to it until May 2018.  And the contractor says Mr W first reported the 
damage to them on 16 April 2018.
Mr W now says the damage to the kitchen unit was spotted immediately and reported to the 
contractor  who agreed to put it right. But I also need to consider that when I first asked him 
why it took some time to report the damage, he gave a different  answer.  Tesco also points 
out that Mr W claimed damage  to his floor tiles was caused by its contractor, but it has since 
shown through  photos that this damage was pre-existing.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  both sides have said about this issue. Overall,  
Im not persuaded that the damage to the unit was reported before  April 2018. And I think  
the fact that it took until then to report the damage means  its unlikely that it was caused  by 
the contractor  as Mr W has said.
Mr W feels strongly that the photos show the damage was caused from the outside of the 
unit pushing inwards.  But I dont agree. In my view,  the photos  seem to show  the back panel 
of the unit has been  pushed outwards  as if damaged from the inside. And while  I accept 
that the back panel is made from ply and so has some give, I dont think that means it 
couldnt have  been damaged from inside in the way Tesco has suggested.
Mr W has argued that the damage  is in line with, and directly behind,  where  a shelf  would 
usually sit. He says he would have needed  to remove  the shelf first in order to have caused 
that damage. But from what Ive seen the largest dent/puncture mark is above  the line of the 
shelf. So, I think its plausible that something could have been pushed  hard across  the shelf 
and caused the damage.  As the back  panel seems to have been forced backward, I think  its 
likely that the damage directly behind the line of the shelf was also caused  by the same 
impact.
Ref: DRN79880488Ultimately, given the time it took Mr W to report the damage, the lack of damage to other 
parts of the unit and the position and direction of the damage, I think it was most  likely 
caused in the way Tesco has suggested.
I appreciate my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr W, particularly after the 
findings of my provisional decision. But Mr W has been given  the opportunity to consider my 
revised conclusion  on his complaint prior to this decision being issued, and Ive clearly  set 
out in this decision the reasons why Im now persuaded that the damage  wasnt caused  by 
Tescos contractor.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Tesco 
Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7988048