K820x#14complaint
Mr G on behalf of himself and the Estate of the late Mrs G complain that Nationwide  Building 
Society mis-sold  them  a payment protection insurance policy  when they took out a mortgage 
in 1993.
background
In August  2019  I issued my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I was thinking of not 
upholding this complaint. I asked both parties to come  back  to me with any further 
information they wished me to consider before I made my final decision.
Nationwide confirmed it had received  my decision and said it remained of the view that the 
policy in question wasnt mis-sold. It also said it had no further information it would like to 
add to the correspondence  already provided.
Mr G hasnt given me anything further  to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
As neither party has added any further information  for me to consider I see no reason to 
depart from the findings Ive set out in my provisional decision.
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs G lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide  did wrong  and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  findings  and in this final decision I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
himself and the Estate of Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before  29 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74202102copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr G on behalf of himself  and the Estate  of the late Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building Society 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance policy when they took out a mortgage in 1993.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage for the whole  of their 25 percent share in the property using  the 
shared ownership scheme. Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Gs name, the PPI policy 
covered Mr G only (not Mrs G) in the event he was off work sick or had an accident.  It also covered 
him if he lost his job. It initially cost around £4.41  and would have provided a benefit equal  to the 
amount of the mortgage repayments at the time.
Mr G has told us that they werent informed that not taking the PPI wouldnt have affected  their ability 
to have their application for their mortgage approved - the PPI wasnt  presented as an optional extra.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Mr G disagreed with this view and asked 
that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive carefully considered everything  Mr G has told us. After doing  so, Im afraid I dont intend to uphold  
this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill explain why below. 
Mr G has said that he and Mrs G werent informed that PPI was an optional  extra. I have seen a copy 
of the mortgage application  completed  at the time.  On it there is a section 7 headed unemployment, 
accident and sickness protection. I can see that the form has been marked  yes and there is a stamp 
endorsed with the word compulsory on it.
The completed fact find shows that sickness, accident and unemployment cover was discussed  at 
the meeting for the mortgage. It sets out the decision  to buy a mortgage with Nationwide. 
Looking at the paperwork I think the PPI was compulsory  with the particular mortgage that 
Mr and Mrs G chose to take out at that time. As they were borrowing 100% of their mortgage,  the 
condition applied which stated: please  note that where the loan is over 90% of the property value or 
purchase price, whichever  is the lower, Mortgage Payment Cover is compulsory . Mr G opted to be 
the only person to be covered and the mortgage offer stated that the applicant was required  to take 
out the PPI and maintain it throughout the life of the mortgage.  
There is nothing wrong in Nationwide making  the PPI compulsory as long as it was clear  that this was 
the case. I think the paperwork available  made it clear  at the time that if Mr and Mrs G wanted  this 
particular mortgage  they would have to take out the PPI. If Mr and Mrs G hadnt wanted to take out 
the cover then they could have gone to another mortgage provider or taken out a different mortgage  
product.
Overall, I think  its more  likely that Mr and Mrs G understood that they had to have the PPI with the 
mortgage they were  taking  out. 
Ref: DRN74202103I will look at this as if Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs G to take out the cover. This put more 
responsibility on Nationwide for how it sold the policy and meant it had to take reasonable  steps to 
make sure it was the right fit for their circumstances. It also had to give enough clear  information  so 
that Mr and Mrs G could  decide for themselves whether  or not to buy the cover.
I cant  say the policy was unsuitable.
Mr G was eligible and I think he could  have  made a successful claim if hed needed to as he was in 
work and hasnt told us about any medical condition he was aware  of - so I dont think  its likely  he 
would have been affected by any of the main limitations  or exclusions  to the policy.
Mr G has told us he had salary protection from his employer  but I think this policy  would have covered  
him for up to 24 months if he couldnt work  or lost his job  so it would have likely  lasted longer than 
his full sick pay and would have been paid out on top of any sick pay he got from his employer.  This 
policy covered the mortgage repayments.
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable for them.
Its possible not all the information Nationwide gave to Mr and Mrs G at the time was as clear as it 
could have been. But as Ive explained above, I think in order to get this mortgage, Mr and Mrs G 
knew at the time they had to take out the policy. And for much the same reasons Ive explained  as to 
why I think  the policy was suitable,  I dont think more  information  would have changed  their mind 
about taking out the PPI and this mortgage.
In summary, I dont think Mr and Mrs G lost out financially  because  of anything Nationwide did wrong 
and I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information provided by both parties, I dont intend to uphold this complaint 
about Nationwide Building Society. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 1 
September 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7420210