K821x#15Complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr C took out in 1996. He applied for the 
card by post and it was set up without PPI, then the policy was added  shortly afterwards.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our adjudicator, and for much the 
same reasons.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he didnt ask for PPI and it was added  without  his 
permission. His testimony  has been  consistent  and hes explained why in his circumstances 
he wouldnt  have asked  for PPI, which comes  across as plausible.
When Mr C applied for his card by post,  he wasnt given a choice about whether to have PPI 
or not. The PPI was later added to his account. Barclays  says it wouldve been sold on a 
phone call. Given the time thats passed, I understand why Barclays doesnt still have a 
record of the call. But it means that I havent seen compelling evidence  that this call actually 
took place, nor any record of who called who or what was said.  And Barclays hasnt been 
able to send us any script its adviser mightve  used.
So I cant be certain of what happened  there. But taking  into account what  Ive been told in 
this complaint, as well as what we know  about Barclays  telephone sales practices around 
the time of this sale, I cant  be reasonably  satisfied  that Barclays made it clear Mr C had a 
choice about buying PPI or that he chose it. And I have no evidence  which  shows  that he did 
choose it. The only evidence I have from the sale is where Mr C applied  for his card and was 
not given a choice about buying PPI either way.
I acknowledge that Mr Cs card was approved without PPI, and I understand Barclays  point 
that this may have  indicated to him that he didnt have to have  it by the time it was sold.  But 
given how close this sale was to the card being set up, I dont think I can fairly assume that 
Mr C wouldve known the PPI sale was not part and parcel of setting up the card.  And in any 
case, Mr C says he was unaware of the PPI being  added at all.
Ref: DRN77887972Barclays also referenced the industry codes from the time, saying it wouldve followed them.  
But just because there were codes  of practice,  that doesnt mean that Barclays  definitely  
followed them completely.  And I dont think  it has clearly shown that it did enough to get 
Mr Cs agreement to add PPI to his card, or that it made it clear he had a choice and he 
agreed to have it. Barclays also pointed out that Mr C couldve cancelled the policy. But the 
onus was on Barclays to sell PPI appropriately in the first place, it wasnt  on Mr C to notice 
any flaws in the sale after the fact and cancel the policy.
In the particular circumstances of this case,  I havent  seen enough information  to make me 
think its likely Barclays gave Mr C a fair choice  about buying  PPI, or that he actively  chose 
it. So it follows that I think this policy was most likely  to have been mis-sold.
Putting things  right
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr C would  have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  he 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Barclays  should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr C paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card.  The interest rate should  again be 
8% simple  a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN77887973My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7788797