K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2002. Mr A says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint as they felt Lloyds had presented  the PPI as 
optional to Mr A and hed chosen to take it out. The adjudicator also thought that, although 
Lloyds might not have  told Mr A everything  it shouldve done about the PPI, the policy was 
suitable for him and so this wouldnt have  made  a difference to his decision  to take it out.
Overall I agreed with the adjudicators assessment, but some new information had been 
drawn to my attention. And I wanted  to give everyone a chance to reply before making my 
final findings. So I issued  a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. I attach a copy of my provisional decision  of 8 November 2018, which 
forms part of this final decision.
In this I explain that whilst it looks like Mr A had had a medical condition at the time of sale 
for which he wouldve  been excluded from making  a sickness claim, I still thought  the policy 
was suitable for him. I said this because based  on what Mr A told us about  his condition I  
thought its was unlikely Mr A wouldve  been concerned enough  about  this to think that it 
would be the most  likely reason hed need  a significant period of time off sick from work.  So I 
dont think Mr A wouldve  changed his mind about buying the PPI if hed understood he 
wouldnt be able to claim for his existing  medical condition. And looking at the rest of the 
policy I didnt think Mr A wouldve been affected  by any of the other terms which  mightve 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I set out my reasons in my provisional  decision attached below and have summarised  those 
same reasons above.
None of the parties responded  with any comments for me to consider. So based  on my 
previous findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason  to change my 
mind about  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  Ive dont think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr A.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back  to Mr A 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Ref: DRN74980492Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74980493COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out
in 2002. Mr A says Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
I dont intend to uphold Mr As case, and Ill explain  why.
Mr A hasnt been able to remember how the PPI was sold to him, but Lloyds  says it was sold in a 
branch. He also says that he wasnt aware of the optional nature  of the PPI and it was added without 
his knowledge or consent. While I appreciate what Mr A has told us are his honest  recollections of the 
sale, I have to keep in mind that the sale took place a long time ago and the evidence suggests  that 
Mr A cant remember much detail about what  happened at the time.
Lloyds says that it wouldve  presented the policy as optional and that it only added it to his account  
because he consented to PPI on his credit card application  form.  Ive seen a copy of the application  
form which Mr A saw and signed. In this theres a section for PPI which  provided equally prominent 
choices to say yes or no to the policy. From this I think  Mr A wouldve known the PPI was optional.  
The yes box was ticked and Mr A signed the form  so I think  this reflected what he wanted at the 
time. So based on this, I think Mr A bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about  it, even if he 
doesnt remember doing so now.
Lloyds says it recommend the PPI to Mr A. This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for 
Mr A  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was.
Mr A had a controlled  medical condition before he took the policy  out. The policy  excluded claims  
arising as a result of existing medical  conditions. I dont know  if Lloyds  considered this when they 
advised Mr A to take out the PPI. But this doesnt mean I should automatically  uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Mr A has told us that his condition  didnt  really  affect  him; it was well-controlled and he had never  
needed to take time off work for it. He also said he hasnt had any other problems  as a result of this 
condition and overall it didnt  affect his day to day life at all. 
Ive thought carefully about  this. I think its unlikely  Mr A wouldve been concerned enough  about his 
condition to think that it was the most likely reason  hed need a significant period  of time off sick from 
work. So I dont think Mr A wouldve changed his mind about buying  the PPI if hed understood he 
wouldnt be able to claim for his existing medical  condition.  And on balance  I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Lloyds to recommend the policy to him under these  circumstances. So I am not 
intending to uphold Mr As complaint for this reason.  And looking at the rest of the policy I dont think 
Mr A wouldve  been affected by any of the other terms which mightve made  it more  difficult  for him to 
make a successful claim.
Mr A hasnt been able to recall whether he had sick pay or savings at the time, but he says he 
couldve relied on family  members for support if he was off sick or made redundant.  But help from 
others cant always be relied upon, as their circumstances can also change. The PPI couldve paid 
out 5% (up to £500) of Mr As outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months. And while  this is less 
than some other policies wouldve paid out, if Mr A had needed to claim for a full 12 months the PPI 
Ref: DRN74980494wouldve settled his full outstanding balance in the 12th month. So having  this policy in place meant  
that he didnt have to rely on others to make his credit card payments. And while its possible he may 
have had some sick pay and savings at the time, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that this 
policy was unsuitable for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out - so it seems like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
This means  Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Lloyds  has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr A about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint  but I intend to tell Lloyds Bank PLC to pay back  to Mr A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already sent Mr A a cheque for this amount,  so I dont intend to award any further compensation.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 8 December 2018
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7498049