K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains Assurant General Insurance Limited werent able to replace his phone  with 
one of the same colour when he made a claim on his mobile phone insurance  policy.  Hes 
also complained  that his phone was disposed of when he asked to keep it. 
background 
Mr K made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy for a damaged screen.  Assurant 
reviewed the claim and accepted it. They said they were unable  to repair Mr Ks phone  so 
offered him a replacement one of the same make  and model.  Mr K didnt think  this was good 
enough as the replacement phone  was a different colour and refurbished.  
Assurant spoke with Mr K about his concerns and said that when they were  unable to repair  
a phone they would offer a replacement that may not be brand new, in line with the policys  
terms and conditions. They also said they would try to supply a phone in the same  colour but 
couldnt guarantee it. Mr K wasnt happy with this so asked for his broken phone  to be 
returned to him. 
A couple of days later Mr K contacted Assurant as he hadnt received his phone back. He 
was told that his phone hadnt  been returned to him but instead  it had been recycled. 
Because of this Mr K complained. 
Assurant reviewed Mr Ks complaint and upheld it. They  said Mr K had been given incorrect  
information about his phone being  returned to him, and that while they would try to return  a 
phone if requested it wasnt always possible.  Assurant offered Mr K £25 to apologise for 
giving him incorrect information. Mr K didnt think this was fair and brought  his complaint 
here. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Mr Ks complaint and recommended it to be upheld. She found 
that Assurant had offered to send Mr K a refurbished phone  of the same make  and model, 
but in a different colour. As the terms of the policy  allowed this she explained to Mr K it was 
fair. But she didnt  think Assurant had done  enough  to compensate  Mr K for misleading  him 
and giving him incorrect information. Because  of this she recommended  the compensation 
be increased to £100. 
Neither Assurant nor Mr K agreed with our Investigator so the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy say where  Assurant replace a phone the 
replacement might not be brand new. And that while they will attempt to replace the phone  
with one of the same  colour they cant guarantee it. The terms and conditions also say 
Damaged mobile phones, accessories, parts and materials  replaced  by us, shall become 
the property of the insurer. 
Mr K asked Assurant not to repair or replace his phone but to send it back to him, it was 
therefore still Mr Ks property when they recycled  it as it hadnt been replaced. I therefore  
dont think it was fair and reasonable for Assurant to recycle  Mr Ks phone  when they did. 
Ref: DRN77925302Since our Investigator reviewed this complaint  Mr K contacted Assurant and has been  sent a 
replacement phone of the same make and model as his. The policy terms allow Assurant  to 
do this. Im therefore satisfied its fair and reasonable for  Assurant to provide Mr K with a 
replacement phone of the same make and model, albeit different colour to his original.  Im 
therefore not going to tell Assurant to do anything  else in regards to replacing  Mr Ks 
recycled phone.
Assurant though did give Mr K incorrect information that his phone  was being sent back  to 
him when  it wasnt. Because of this Mr K was expecting his phone back  and then had to 
chase Assurant to find out what was happening  when it didnt arrive.  Im satisfied  this caused 
him unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.  To compensate Mr K for this Assurant should  
pay Mr K £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is a 
fair amount because  if Mr K had received his broken phone back, he would  have had to pay 
to get it repaired  elsewhere.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I partly uphold  this complaint. I 
require Assurance  General Insurance Limited  to pay Mr K £100 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
They should  pay this within  28 days  of us telling them  Mr Ks accepted my final decision. If 
they pay later than this they should add interest  to the compensation  at a rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date of my decision to the date they make  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Assurant considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7792530