K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the cancellation  of his motor insurance, arranged through  Sainsburys  
Bank Plc. He complains that it didnt  contact him at times, gave him misleading  information 
and has caused  problems with later insurers.
background
Mr J arranged a motor  insurance policy through Sainsburys. Although Mr J dealt with 
Sainsburys throughout, it arranged the policy but wasnt itself the insurer  the policy  was 
underwritten by another company.
Once the policy was set up, the underwriter made  some checks  and found some previous 
claims it said Mr J hadnt disclosed  on his application. It asked Sainsburys to find out the 
details from Mr J. 
Sainsburys wrote  to Mr J and asked him to get in touch. Mr J spoke to Sainsburys, got 
some more information from his previous insurer and uploaded it to Sainsburys online 
portal. But the underwriter  still wasnt satisfied and asked Sainsburys to find out some more 
information. 
Sainsburys wrote  to Mr J again. It also spoke to Mr J and told him no further information was 
required  which wasnt right. It then wrote  to Mr J again asking him to get in touch. When 
Mr J didnt contact Sainsburys again,  the underwriter cancelled  the policy and Sainsburys 
sent the cancellation to Mr J.
The underwriter recorded the cancellation on the central claims database, which  led another 
insurer to cancel its policy with Mr J. So Mr J complained. He said Sainsburys hadnt 
contacted him to request  the further  information. Hed given  it everything  he was asked  for 
and was told nothing  more was needed.  He said its systems and communication were poor 
and that was the cause of the cancellation.  He holds Sainsburys responsible  for the record  
of the cancellation on the claims database and wants  it removed.
Our investigator explained that much of what Mr J complained about  is the responsibility  of 
the underwriter,  not Sainsburys. She thought the £75 compensation Sainsburys had offered 
for poor communication  was fair. Mr J didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. He holds  Sainsburys responsible as the company  he dealt with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to set out what I can and cant deal with in this decision. This is a 
complaint about  Sainsburys, not the policy underwriter. So I can only deal with acts and 
omissions that Sainsburys are responsible for. Its not responsible for anything  done by the 
underwriter. 
It was the underwriter  not Sainsburys  that cancelled  Mr Js policy. And it was the 
underwriter that recorded the cancellation  on the central database, leading  to problems with 
Mr Js other  insurers.  As our investigator  explained,  Mr J will need to complain about  that to 
the underwriter.  I know the record on the central  database is Mr Js primary concern in this 
case, but I cant do anything about it as part of this complaint; I cant direct  Sainsburys to 
remove an entry it didnt put there  and has no power  to remove.
Ref: DRN70701282Sainsburys did deal with Mr J, and act as intermediary between him and the underwriter. 
For the same reasons,  I cant deal with the requests the underwriter made which Sainsburys 
passed on, and whether or not what Mr J said should have been accepted by the 
underwriter. Those are complaints to be made  to the underwriter.
Its not my role to look at Sainsburys systems  or to say that its policies and procedures for 
customer service  are or are not generally  effective. My role is to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr Js complaint. In that context,  I note that 
when the policy was taken out (via a comparison  website)  he chose to be contacted  that way 
 and so I dont think it was unreasonable of Sainsburys to do so. Mr J received at least  
some of the communication Sainsburys sent to him since he responded to it in June and 
July 2017.
In October, Sainsburys told Mr J that it had all it needed. The next day, the underwriter 
asked for more information.  So I dont think Sainsburys misled Mr J  because it didnt know 
what the underwriter would ask for  but it did result in Mr J believing the issue of his 
previous claims to be resolved when it wasnt. Sainsburys  has offered £75 compensation for 
this, which  I think is fair.
When the underwriter asked for more information, on 31 October, Sainsburys tried to call 
Mr J without success on 6 November and wrote to him. It wrote again on 16 November, and 
when it didnt receive a response the policy was cancelled on 27 November. I think  
Sainsburys took reasonable steps  to try to contact Mr J in both calling and writing to him. 
The online portal had worked earlier in the year, it was the contact method Mr J had chosen 
when he took the policy, and Sainsburys had no reason to think it wasnt working at that 
time. I dont know if the emails asking for contact arrived and were overlooked, were diverted 
to Mr Js junk folder or didnt arrive at all. But I think Sainsburys acted fairly in trying to 
contact Mr J in the agreed way, and by ringing him as well. Mr J disputes that the call took 
place, but theres  a contemporaneous record of it having  been made  I think  is likely to be 
accurate.
Overall, and while I know Mr J doesnt agree, much of what hes complaining about is the 
responsibility of the underwriter, not Sainsburys.  I think Sainsburys took reasonable steps  
to contact Mr J to comply with the underwriters requests, and I think the £75 offer of 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances. I dont  intend to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7070128