K820x#14complaint
Mr D says CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as Peachy.co.uk)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two short-term high-cost loans Peachy provided  to Mr D in October 
2014 and July 2018 as shown below. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 23/10/2014 21/11/2014 200
2 13/07/2018 - 400
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Mr D disagreed saying his credit  rating  was 
so low at the time that Peachy should have checked that and not lent to him. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN70634732Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
There was a significant break in Mr Ds borrowing  from Peachy. There was a gap of over 
three and a half years between loans 1 and 2. I think it would have been reasonable with for 
Peachy to view that gap as an indication that Mr Ds finances had stabilised after whatever 
the circumstances that had caused  him to take out loan 1. So I will look at Mr Ds borrowing 
in two separate lending chains.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Peachy needed  to do more  
when it approved loan 1. It told us it assessed his income and expenditure and completed a 
credit check.  So I think it carried out proportionate  checks, and it seems there was nothing in 
the information it gathered that should  have led it to make a different lending  decision. So I 
dont think Peachy was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr D.    
For loan 2, again like the adjudicator, I think Peachy should have done more to make sure it 
fully understood  what other short-term credit commitments  Mr D had. However, from the 
information I have  seen from Mr D I dont think Peachy should have made a different lending  
decision had it done so. Mr D argues  checking  his credit file should have shown the loan 
was unaffordable as his credit score  was low. But Peachy  carried  out a credit check  it 
wouldnt necessarily have  received the same level of information from its credit checks  that 
Mr D can see on his credit report.  Loan 2 was at the start of the second phase  of the lending 
relationship, so I dont  think  it had reached  the stage where there  was a significant  risk of the 
loan being unsustainable for Mr D. In these circumstances,  I dont think Peachy needed to 
complete a full financial  review before  giving  the loan. It follows  I dont think Peachy was 
wrong to give loan 2 to Mr D. 
It follows I am not upholding this complaint.  I would  remind Peachy of its obligation  to treat Mr D 
sympathetically and fairly in any discussions  about  the settlement of his outstanding balance.   
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7063473