K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs J says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs J owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs J couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs J that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs J has said she was unaware she had PPI and 
thinks it was added to her account without her knowledge or consent.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mrs J at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name  used by FICL for 
PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs J has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs J didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs J has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs J 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mrs J. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it 
gave Mrs J clear enough information  about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if 
she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
Ref: DRN77054262made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs J 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Mrs J has told us she was entitled to at least six months full sick pay from her employer. But 
this policy  would have  paid out the monthly benefit until she returned to work or until the 
outstanding balance was paid  which ever came first. And this would be in addition to, and 
potentially for longer  than, her sick pay. And it would  also have provided cover for the same 
length of time if she was to lose her job. As Mrs J has told us she didnt have any savings or 
other means  with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt earning, I think  this policy  
could have provided her with a useful benefit.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs J has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7705426