K821x#15complaint
Mr Y has complained about esure  Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the valuation of 
his car following a claim on his motor  insurance  policy.
background
Mr Y made a claim on his car insurance policy and his car was written  off. esure offered 
Mr Y the market value  of the car. But Mr Y wasnt happy about the valuation  because esure 
made a 20% deduction as the car had been written off previously and had been  repaired. So 
he complained  to esure and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr Y and partly upheld his complaint.  He said that he 
thought the salvage  deduction was fair and in line with this services general approach. But 
he didnt think that esure  had acted reasonably in looking to make a salvage deduction when 
Mr Y wanted  the car back as part of the settlement. He suggested that esure pay £250 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused to Mr Y as he chose  not to take the 
car back because of the way it handled  this issue.
esure didnt  think that it had acted unreasonably  and so the matter has been passed to me 
for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances.
In this instance esure and Mr Y are in agreement about the overall valuation  of his car so I 
dont propose to go over this in detail here. But I will look at the deduction  esure made as the 
car had been  written  off previously as that is the main issue  in dispute.
Mr Y was fully aware that his car had been  written off previously. But he feels that esure  
should only have  made a deduction of about 10% as opposed to the 20% it took. While I can 
understand Mr Ys frustration I dont think that esure has done anything  wrong.  I say this as 
they have acted reasonably and in line with our general approach.  We feel that the market  
value of a car is affected by the fact that it has been repaired after it has been written  off - 
ordinarily previously written off cars sell for about 20% less. So I dont think that esure  has 
acted unreasonably here.
However, esure has looked to deduct 35% for the salvage when Mr Y asked for his car back  
and then looked to reduce that amount  to around 25% when  Mr Y said he didnt think that 
was fair. However, it has acknowledged to this service that its salvage agent paid esure a lot 
less for Mr Ys car. So I agree with our adjudicator that this doesnt seem fair. 
I can understand why Mr Y got frustrated with the whole process and told esure to dispose  of 
the car. But it is likely  that he would have  taken the salvage back and repaired the car 
himself, especially as hed looked to do this before. So I agree that he should be 
compensated for this.
Ref: DRN74592382Finally, I can see that esure  also made a very small deduction in relation to pre-existing 
damage which it shouldnt  have. I say this as it was already making  a deduction  as the car 
had been written off previously and so I dont think the small amount of additional damage  
would have had any affect on the value but this didnt have any real affect on the value of 
the car. So, overall I agree  that Mr Y should be compensated  for the stress  and 
inconvenience caused and the fact that he was deprived of the opportunity  of getting  the 
salvage back and repairing  his car.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  esure 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr Y £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7459238