K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Western  Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat)  lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Mr W has been represented whilst making  this complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC).
Mr W was given six loans by Cashfloat between July 2017 and March 2018.  Each  of the 
loans was due to be repaid in monthly instalments  as shown in the table below.  Mr W 
successfully repaid his first five loans but a balance remains outstanding  on the final loan. 
A summary  of Mr Ws borrowing from Cashfloat  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Number of 
Instalments
1 10/07/2017 25/08/2017 £ 200 2
2 30/08/2017 25/09/2017 £ 400 3
3 25/09/2017 01/11/2017 £ 500 2
4 01/11/2017 24/01/2018 £ 500 2
5 28/01/2018 23/03/2018 £ 600 2
6 23/03/2018 - £ 800 4
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She thought  it had been 
reasonable for Cashfloat to give the first five loans to Mr W, but didnt think  the final loan 
should have been lent. So she asked Cashfloat  to refund any interest and charges that Mr W 
had paid on that loan. She said that refund could be used to reduce any outstanding 
balance. And she asked Cashfloat to remove any entries relating to the loan from Mr Ws 
credit file.
In order to resolve the complaint Cashfloat accepted our adjudicators findings that it 
shouldnt have given  the final loan to Mr W. But it pointed out that Mr W hadnt yet repaid the 
capital that hed borrowed on the final loan so it offered to remove  any interest and charges 
from the outstanding balance. But it thought it would be wrong to remove  the loan from 
Mr Ws credit file whilst  a balance remained outstanding.
When I first started looking at the complaint I was in agreement with our adjudicators 
findings that loan 6 shouldnt have been given  to Mr W. But I thought  Cashfloat  was right to 
ask that the loan remained on Mr Ws credit file whilst a balance was outstanding. It wasnt  
clear to me whether Mr W had accepted our adjudicators findings. So I asked her to check  
with the CMC if Mr W had any comments,  and to let the CMC  know  that I wouldnt be asking 
Cashfloat to remove  any entries relating to the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
The CMC received that request and says it passed it on to Mr W. But that was several  
weeks ago and it hasnt  yet received a response. This service is intended as a quick  and 
informal alternative to court proceedings. It isnt therefore appropriate for complaints to 
remain open indefinitely.  So as we have been  unable to resolve the complaint informally, 
I will now issue a final decision. That will mark the end of our involvement in this complaint. 
Ref: DRN74788612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W agreed to repay his loans in monthly instalments. So the amounts he needed to pay 
each month  were much less than if hed taken a normal payday loan. However I have noted 
Ref: DRN74788613that the amounts he was borrowing were steadily  increasing. And he generally repaid his 
loans earlier than scheduled and then took another, larger,  loan shortly  afterwards. I think all 
these things might have indicated to Cashfloat that Mr W was facing some  pressure  on his 
finances. But on balance,  when it agreed to give the first five loans to Mr W, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. So I dont think  Cashfloat was 
wrong to give the first five loans to Mr W.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending  history with Mr W I think  by loan 6 
the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that it shouldnt provide any further  loans. 
This loan was Mr Ws sixth in around  eight months.  The amount he was borrowing was 
steadily increasing  and he wasnt making any inroads  into the amount he owed the lender. 
Mr W had paid a considerable amount of interest  to Cashfloat to effectively service  a debt 
over an extended period.
I think Mr W lost out because  these loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging his 
indebtedness by allowing  him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period  of time. And borrowing in this way was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability  to access mainstream credit and so keep him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.  So I uphold the complaint about loan 6 and Cashfloat should  put 
things right.
putting things right
Although he has made some repayments on loan 6, Mr W has not yet repaid the principal 
that he borrowed. So Cashfloat  should;
Reduce the outstanding balance on this loan by removing  any interest and charges 
that have been  added  to it, and treating all payments that Mr W has made as being  
towards the principal  he borrowed. 
Work  with Mr W to agree a mutually agreeable plan to repay the remaining 
outstanding principal bearing  in mind the need to continue to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
When the principal  that Mr W borrowed has been fully repaid, all entries  about the 
loan should be removed from Mr Ws credit  file. Until that time Cashfloat should 
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ws complaint and direct Western  Circle Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Ref: DRN74788614Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7478861