K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ks complaint about Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) concerns its treatment of 
her when she tried twice to open an account. 
background 
Mrs K is represented in this complaint by her son, Mr K. For ease of reference, Ill refer to 
Mrs K throughout.
In October  2018, Mrs K applied for a Nationwide account online. Due to an error,  the 
application wasnt processed, although  a credit check  was carried  out. 
In trying to sort this out, Mrs K then visited a Nationwide  branch. But it couldnt help her as 
her application  hadnt been  processed. So she was asked to submit a new one. 
In February 2019,  she made a second application. But this was declined  due to Nationwides 
concerns over Mrs K being impersonated.  Another  credit check was carried out, and a 
CIFAS (fraud  marking agency) marker  was added against Mrs Ks name.
Mrs K was very unhappy  with all of this. Shed tried twice to open an account,  and felt she 
was being discriminated  against. She said she was disabled and found  it difficult to get to 
branch, and that Nationwide hadnt  treated her fairly. 
She wanted the CIFAS  marker removed, and compensation paid. 
Nationwide offered £50 compensation for its poor handling of the matter, and removed the 
first credit search.  
Mrs K didnt think this was enough,  so brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, obtaining  further information  from both parties, and 
concluded that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly in declining  to open Mrs Ks account, and 
logging the CIFAS marker, but that it had made some mistakes and hadnt provided  the 
correct level of customer service. So he thought  it should pay an additional £50.
Following this view, Mrs K told us that one of the letters Nationwide had issued was to her 
correct name, but not her address. She was concerned that this was another mistake and a 
security breach. 
Nationwide acknowledged  its further  error, and admitted that that letter had been intended 
for another  customer.  It agreed to increase the overall compensation figure to £200.
Mrs K didnt accept this, so the complaints come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our Investigator was right to uphold the complaint in respect of 
Nationwides poor service, and that compensation be paid for that. And I think the £200  
currently offered is fair. 
Ref: DRN77768022I dont think we can uphold the complaint that an account wasnt successfully  opened for 
Mrs K, or that a CIFAS  marker was applied.  
I appreciate my decision may be a disappointment  to Mrs K, and Id like to explain why Ive 
reached it, and believe  it to be fair to both parties.
First, Im conscious  that Ive summarised  this complaint in less detail than the parties, and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to each individual point made.  No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Rather, its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Ks first account  application wasnt progressed properly.  This was Nationwides error,  
which its admitted. Its offered £50 for this, and has removed the relevant credit  search.  I 
think this resolves this part of the complaint.
Mrs Ks second application was processed  and declined. But Mrs K wasnt properly notified 
of this. I agree that Nationwide was entitled  to make this decision, and to load the CIFAS 
marker, but it should have communicated more clearly with Mrs K. Its offered £50 for this, 
which I think is enough. Im not going  to ask it to remove the CIFAS marker, or change  its 
decision not to open the account. This is because I think  on the information and concerns it 
held at the time, this wasnt unreasonable action to take. And since then Mrs Ks been  
invited to send  in further identification to resolve matters, but hasnt done so. 
Mrs Ks unhappy that a letter  was sent to her at an incorrect  address.  Nationwide  accepts 
this was due to human error,  and shouldnt have happened. Its agreed to pay £100 
compensation for this.
Overall, Nationwides  offering £200 to resolve Mrs Ks complaint, which I think is fair. Im not 
going to ask it to do anything  else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, to the extent explained in this 
decision. And to resolve matters Im asking Nationwide  Building Society  plc to pay the £200  
suggested settlement  to Mrs K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776802