K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream)  lent him money he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr S took out two instalment  loans with Lending Stream. These are:
Date amount instalments monthly repayment
Repayment date
22 July 2011 £95 4 up to £60.17 22 September 2011
30 September 2011 £265 6 up to £132.50 26 December 2012
When Mr S complained to Lending Stream that the loans werent affordable  it didnt agree. It 
says it was entitled to rely on the information Mr S gave about his income and outgoings, 
and when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loans were 
affordable for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should  not be upheld. He says Lending 
Stream carried out proportionate checks for both of the loans and so it didnt do anything  
wrong. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view and says if Lending  Stream had carried out a 
correct credit check it would have seen he had other loans at the time and so shouldnt  have 
lent him the money. As both parties are still not in agreement, the complaint has come  to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr S would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN76678752Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether    
Mr S could afford to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Lending Stream  had to do.
Mr Ss first loan was for £95 to be repaid in 4 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £60.17. Lending Stream says he told it he was earning £1000 and declared 
expenditure of £200. Lending  Stream also says it carried out a credit  agency check  that it 
says was satisfactory although I havent  been  able to see what it says it saw at the time. 
I can see the monthly repayment  was a small proportion of Mr Ss declared disposable 
income, the instalment amount was low and this was his first loan. So for those  reasons,  I 
am satisfied  that the checks carried out by Lending  Stream for the first loan were 
proportionate.
Mr S asked for second  loan of £265  a few months after his first loan ended.  This was to be 
repaid in 6 monthly instalments with the largest  monthly repayment being  £132.50.  Lending 
Stream again asked  Mr S about his income and outgoings  for this loan to make  sure he 
could afford  it over the 6 instalments. 
Again, the information provided  by Mr S (£1000  income and £200  expenditure)  for this loan 
would have showed that the loan was affordable with him having enough disposable income 
to comfortably meet the monthly repayment.  I cant see anything that would suggest to me 
that Lending Stream should  have  carried  out further checks  over what  it had already  done. 
Mr S has said that Lending  Stream should have seen he had other loans by carrying  out a 
credit check  and not lent to him as a result. Lending  Stream has confirmed that it used Credit  
Reference Agencies as part of its affordability assessment but has not given much detail 
about this. There  wasnt any requirement  for it to carry out detailed credit checks  just that it 
needed to conduct proportionate  checks.  And as Ive said above,  I think  that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  that the loans were affordable  for Mr S with these 2 loans for the 
reasons I have already given.
Mr S says that Lending Stream should  have looked  into his other  loans further and not 
agreed to lend him the 2 loans but Lending Stream  was entitled to rely on the information   
Mr S gave it about the level of his income  and expenditure.  And overall, Im not satisfied that 
there was anything which should  have  made  it think that he wouldnt be able to afford to 
repay the loans,  or which ought  to have prompted it to carry out more detailed  checks.
In conclusion, I consider  the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Mr Ss two 
loans were proportionate and sufficient.  So I cant say now that it was wrong for Lending 
Stream to give these  loans to Mr S. And so I cant require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
16 February 2019.
Ref: DRN76678753Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7667875