K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited lent her money  irresponsibly 
because they failed to carry out proper affordability  checks before the loans  were  agreed.
background
Mrs C took out a total of 12 loans with Provident  between June 2005 and November 2014. 
She says that at the time she took out the loans  she had a number of other  debts and 
expenses and didnt  have sufficient disposable income  to make the loan repayments. Mrs C 
says that if Provident  had checked her income  and expenditure (including  her bank 
statements) it would have  been clear that the loans werent affordable.
Our investigator explained that this service  couldnt look into any loans which were agreed 
more than 6 years ago which meant we could only look at the 3 loans which  had been taken 
out since October 2013. The investigator reviewed Mrs Cs bank statements and credit  file 
but said that based on the information available  at the time when the loans were agreed  
there was no evidence that the loans were  unaffordable.
Mrs C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided.
Each time Mrs C applied for the loan with Provident  she provided details of her income  and 
expenditure. Provident is entitled to rely on the information provided for the purposes of 
carrying out an affordability assessment.
Provident also carried out a credit check  each  time Mrs C applied for a loan. The credit  
checks showed that Mrs C had some other loans and credit accounts and that a couple  of 
these were in arrears or had missed payments. I would have expected Provident to note this 
information, but the fact that Mrs C had some  missed payments doesnt necessarily mean 
that Provident shouldnt have agreed  the loans.  A credit check  is just one of a number of 
factors which are taken  into account in assessing  creditworthiness and affordability.
Provident has said that based  on the information provided by Mrs C about her income  and 
expenditure, and based  on the credit  checks carried out it was satisfied that Mrs C had 
sufficient disposable  income to be able to afford the loan repayments.
Ive looked at Mrs Cs bank statements at the time when the loans were  agreed. The bank 
account wasnt used  very much and there  isnt any regular  expenditure. Based on the bank 
statements Im unable  to say that Mrs C didnt have  sufficient disposable income to meet  the 
loan repayments.  
Ref: DRN75663202Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im satisfied that Provident carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing the loans. Im also satisfied that the 
checks showed that Mrs C had sufficient disposable  income to afford  the loan repayments. 
For these reasons Ive given Im unable to say that Provident lent to Mrs C irresponsibly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2018.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566320