K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr S have complained about the way Paragon Finance Plc has dealt with them 
during a period of financial difficulties. To put the matter right,  Mrs M and Mr S want  Paragon 
to put them  back  in the position theyd have been  in if they hadnt had any financial 
difficulties.
background
Mrs M and Mr S have a second  charge secured  loan with Paragon taken out in 2004.  They  
borrowed £32,000 over a period of ten years.  On 6 September  2005  Paragraph  was granted 
a suspended possession order.
The loan is unregulated and only became subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on 1 April 2014. This complaint  concerns events since  that date.
The loan term came to an end in August 2014, but there is still around £30,000 due to be 
repaid to Paragon.
Mrs M and Mr S have been  unhappy with Paragon for several years and raised a number of 
previous complaints, which  were addressed in final response letters  sent in 15 September 
2016, 15 March  2018 and 22 June  2018 as follows:
-Paragon refused to send them  a copy of a financial statement  completed in 2016;
-Paragon continued  to take payments after November 2017;
-Paragon proceeded with litigation action;
-interest was charged on the unpaid balance;
-dissatisfaction about the way they were spoken to when during a telephone call on 6 
March 2018. 
-Paragon added legal fees to the account.
-Paragon refused to accept their offer of payment.
-Paragon didnt make  anyone available to speak  with them on a Saturday. 
-Paragons failure to send confirmation  in writing of a decision to refund interest  applied  to 
the account from July 2015.
Paragon has a possession order on the property and a warrant of eviction had been  due to 
be executed in on 19 May 2019. On 17 May 2019  Mrs M and Mr S complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  and so matters were  put on hold pending the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mrs M and Mr S are unhappy about  the way Paragon has dealt  with their arrears. They are 
unhappy that Paragon added charges to their account prior to 2014. Mrs M and Mr S also 
object to Paragon  continuing to charge interest  on the unpaid balance  of the loan after the 
term ended  in 2014.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He explained to Mrs M and Mr S that we could only 
consider events that took place after 1 April 2014,  when  this loan came under our 
jurisdiction. 
He noted that Paragon  didnt consent to us looking at any of the issues covered by the 
previous final response letters sent in September 2016, March  2018 and June 2018. The 
Ref: DRN77675432investigator was satisfied those complaint had been  brought more than six months after the 
final response letters, and there  were  no exceptional  circumstances  to explain the delay.
The investigator was satisfied that fees and charges added  to the account after June 2018 
were fair and reasonable. Paragon had needed  to take legal  action, and so was entitled to 
add the litigation  costs to the account.
The investigator also noted that there had been numerous payment arrangements between 
Mrs M and Mr S and Paragon since the loan expired, but that these had not always  been 
kept to. As a result, Paragon had withdrawn concessions to freeze interest and accept 
reduced payments.
In all the circumstances, the investigator thought Paragon had acted reasonably and so he 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M and Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. Theyve made some detailed points 
about their circumstances since 2004.  They feel aggrieved that they have paid Paragon  
thousands of pounds over the years, yet Paragon is still expecting them to pay £600 a month 
or else it will evict them.  They have reiterated that they want  to be put in the position they 
would have been in if they hadnt  had any financial difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
numerous telephone call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to all the calls, and its 
apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant to the underlying  case than 
others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of arguments. In what  
follows, I have, by necessity, summarised  events  in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
This loan didnt come within the scope of the Financial Ombudsman  Service until 1 April 
2014. This means I cant look at anything that happened before that date. So although Ive 
noted everything Mrs M and Mr S have said about  their situation before then, its not 
something I can take into account. 
Im also satisfied that we cant consider any of the issues (as listed above) which  were  
addressed by Paragon in final response  letters sent in September 2016, March 2018  and 
June 2018. Those letters  explain that a complaint must be made to us within  six months of 
the date of the letter. The complaint was first raised with us on 17 May 2019. There  are no 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay,  so those complaints are out of time.
Ref: DRN77675433The issues  I can consider  are the administration of the account  and the fees and charges 
added to the account after June  2018.
Account administration: I appreciate Mrs M and Mr S are in a difficult  position. The term of 
their loan came to an end six years  ago and the balance  is due in full. Paragon  is entitled to 
be repaid, and so I dont  think there  is anything wrong in Paragon  looking to recover  the 
debt. The court has already decided that the money is owed to Paragon, so I dont have any 
power to change that. 
Given this, although  Mrs M and Mr S want to be put in the position they were in before they 
were in financial difficulties, the court has already made a ruling  on how much  they owe 
Paragon. If Mrs M and Mr S think this isnt fair, theyll need to refer it back to court.
Paragon is required to treat customers in financial  difficulty positively and sympathetically. 
But this doesnt  mean allowing unlimited forbearance where  a substantial debt is owed or 
where the loan term has come to an end. Thats because any payment arrangements are 
intended to be short-term measures to allow borrowers to recover  from financial difficulties 
which are not permanent or long-term. 
Where a reduced payment is accepted, it can provide some  short-term breathing space  for a 
borrower in financial  difficulty. But the unpaid interest and capital will still have to be paid 
back at some point in the future.
But where borrowers are in long-term  financial difficulties, it can be irresponsible for lenders 
to agree to accept  reduced payments over an indefinite period, because  this simply 
increases the debt owed by the borrowers,  making their financial  difficulties  worse.
Im satisfied payment  arrangements  have been  made between  Mrs M and Mr S and Paragon 
which havent been adhered to. As a result, Paragon has sought to recover  possession  of 
the property.
I dont think Paragon has done anything wrong  here.  The debt is due and payable in full. 
Paragon isnt under any obligation to continue to agree  to payment arrangements  in these 
circumstances, particularly where  Mrs M and Mr S arent able to make the minimum 
payment required  by Paragon to cover  the interest on the loan.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Paragon has acted unfairly in its handling of this 
account. I think Paragon  has given Mrs M and Mr S sufficient  time to make alternative  
arrangements to repay the outstanding balance on the loan.
Legal costs added to the account: Im satisfied  Paragon is entitled to recover  its 
reasonable legal fees by adding these to the account balance. I appreciate Mrs M and Mr S 
think this is unfair, but where reasonable legal fees have  been legitimately incurred by 
Paragon as a result of recovery  action  which  Paragon is entitled to take, those  charges are 
payable by the borrowers.
Other matters: I note this complaint was referred  to us on 17 May 2019,  two days before the 
eviction on 19 May 2019. I also note that the court  has previously suspended warrants of 
eviction.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a court, and we dont have any power to interfere in 
legal proceedings. Paragon agreed  to put matters on hold while we were  looking at this 
Ref: DRN77675434complaint, but I must make it clear  that we cant  order Paragon to do so. The correct process 
for stopping  an eviction is by making an application  to the court  which Mrs M and Mr S 
have done in the past. 
I would be remiss if I did not make it explicitly clear to Mrs M and Mr S that if the court  issues  
another warrant of eviction and Mrs M and Mr S bring a complaint to us in the hope  that we 
will ask Paragon to put matters on hold, we are unlikely to be able to interfere with the legal 
proceedings. I wouldnt want Mrs M and Mr S to be under any misunderstanding that we are 
an alternative avenue  to suspending a warrant of eviction without them  having  to go to court.
Taking possession  of the property is a last resort,  but its not unreasonable  for Paragon  to 
expect the debt to be repaid. This debt is six years overdue.   At the present time, all 
mortgage lenders  have  put recovery action on hold, as the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) has ordered this until at least 31 October  2020, and possibly  later than that if the FCA 
issues further directives due to the pandemic. 
But this gives Mrs M and Mr S several  months of breathing space, during which  time they 
can seek advice about their options. They may want to see an independent financial adviser, 
to discuss ways of raising alternative finance to repay the debt to Paragon. They might 
decide to sell their property and will have time to do this without the threat  of eviction.
Or they may want to take advice about  their debts  from Citizens  Advice, StepChange or 
Shelter, which are agencies providing  free debt advice. We can provide contact details for 
those agencies, if Mrs M and Mr S would like us to.
But, as Ive said above, I would not want Mrs M and Mr S to be under the misapprehension 
that the Financial  Ombudsman Service will necessarily be able to stop any future  eviction, 
once the point is reached where lenders are once again permitted to take this course of 
action.
Conclusion: I know this isnt the outcome Mrs M and Mr S were  hoping for, but after taking 
everything theyve said into account,  Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs M and Mr Ss options are limited,  but this doesnt mean that Paragon  is 
under any obligation to continue to agree to payment arrangements  when the entire debt is 
outstanding. So in all the circumstances  although I appreciate Mrs M and Mr S will not 
agree  Im satisfied  Paragon hasnt done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN77675435
Ref: DRN7767543