K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains about end of contract charges when she voluntary terminated  her 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
background 
In November 2014 Mrs A was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. The contract was due to reach maturity  in November 2018 but was 
voluntary terminated  in October 2018.
Following voluntary termination the car was inspected. Mrs A was present during the 
inspection and says she was led to believe that there wouldnt be any charges. However she 
later received an invoice  from MBFS asking  her to pay charges of £377.21 for a chip in the 
windscreen. 
Mrs A is unhappy about the charges. She says she was led to believe  there  would be no 
charges and that had she been  told otherwise she would have had the windscreen replaced 
on her insurance.
During the investigation by this service, MBFS offered  to reduce the charges by 50% leaving 
Mrs A with £188.61 to pay.
Our investigator felt the offer was fair. She said the inspection report stated that there was a 
chip in the windscreen which was in the drivers line of sight. She also said that Mrs A was 
provided with the vehicle  return standards  before  she had to return  the car and therefore  had 
the opportunity  to replace  the windscreen. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She said the only chip on the windscreen was a pin prick on the 
passengers side which didnt obscure the drivers line of vision. She also felt that it was 
misleading for the amount  to be charged  not to be shown on the vehicle condition report 
which was completed  at the time of inspection.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the agreement with MBFS, Mrs A is required to return  the car in good  
condition. If there is damage  which goes  beyond fair wear  and tear, MBFS is entitled to 
charge Mrs A for this. Fair wear and tear is explained in detail in the BVLRA guidelines.
The vehicle return standards document, which was provided to Mrs A at the start of the 
agreement, sets out the type of damage which isnt acceptable.
Ive reviewed the inspection report, which includes some photos of the windscreen.  The 
report says theres a chip on the windscreen of up to 5mm which is in the drivers line of 
sight. The report recommends a windscreen  replacement. 
I have no reason to think that the location of the chip hasnt been correctly recorded on the 
report. I appreciate  that Mrs A says that the chip was on the passenger  side but I think  shes  
referring to a different, and in all likelihood, a much smaller chip.
Ref: DRN72720502The photos  of the damage are of poor quality and I havent been able to identify the extent of 
the chip. But Im satisfied that the report identifies  a chip in the drivers line of sight  and I 
dont think the report would say this if there wasnt a chip in that location.
Ive taken into account the vehicle  returns standards. These  say that cracks or damage to 
the windscreen within the drivers line of sight  are not acceptable.  This means  that a chip of 
any size (even if smaller  than 5mm) in the drivers line of sight will constitute chargeable 
damage.
Ive also taken into account the BVLRA guidelines. These  say that chips  on the windscreen  
arent acceptable if they obscure the drivers line of sight. So again,  the damage  identified on 
the inspection  report goes beyond fair wear and tear according to the guidelines, and is 
therefore chargeable.
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied  that the damage to the windscreen  went  
beyond fair wear and tear and that MBFS hasnt done anything  wrong  in charging Mrs A.
Ive taken into account the point  made  by Mrs A about the car having less mileage than the 
limit agreed at the start of the agreement. But this of itself doesnt mitigate the loss in value 
caused by the damage to the windscreen. Im unable to set off any retained value as a result 
of lower than average mileage against the cost of repairing  damage  which  goes beyond  fair 
wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mrs A feels that the charges should  have been  made  clear  to her when she 
signed the vehicle condition report. MBFS has explained the reason the charges were stated 
to be £0.00 was because the inspector needed  to obtain an estimate  for the cost of repairs. 
The vehicle condition report  says that charges are subject to variation. In circumstances  
where the cost of repairing  the damage isnt known, I dont think its unreasonable  for MBFS 
to assess the charges  following inspection. Ive considered the level of charges and Im 
satisfied they are in line with the MBFS charges matrix, so I cant  say the charges are 
unreasonable or unfair.
Mrs A has said she was led to believe that there wouldnt be any charges. Im unable to 
comment on what the dealership said because I wasnt  there and there are no 
contemporaneous notes or other  evidence for me to look at. If the dealership led Mrs A to 
believe that the damage wouldnt be chargeable then that is very unfortunate  but Im 
unable to hold MBFS responsible for this. Theres nothing to suggest that the agent who 
inspected the car told Mrs A there  would  be no charges.  The fact that the report identifies 
chargeable damage suggests otherwise.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im satisfied that the damage is 
chargeable. I think the offer by MBFS to reduce the charges  by 50% is reasonable and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ref: DRN72720503Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7272050