K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the status  of his default marker recorded  by Link Financial  Outsourcing  
Limited (Link)  in 2019. 
background
In June 2013, Mr C had a default  applied by Lender  B, following non-payment of the balance 
outstanding on his credit  card account. In August 2013 Lender B sold the debt to Link. 
In September  2015 Mr C was declared  bankrupt. Mr Cs bankruptcy  was managed by an 
official receiver (OR).  
The OR has told this service that Lender B was notified of the bankruptcy  in 2015. Link have 
also confirmed that they were  made  aware  of the bankruptcy though Lender B in 2015.
In September  2016, Mr Cs bankruptcy was discharged. 
In January 2019 Mr C was offered  a new job. In February 2019  Mr Cs contract was 
terminated. Mr C says this was because he still had an active default showing with Link. 
Mr C contacted Link and complained about  the default showing with a credit  reference 
agency (CRA), as he thought this had been settled when his bankruptcy was discharged. 
Link responded to Mr Cs complaint saying that as a result of them  being told about the 
bankruptcy being completed in 2016,  theyd contact CRAs to record the default as partially  
satisfied as of 7 September 2016.  They also explained that the default in place will continue  
to show on Mr Cs credit file until 27 June  2019. Link offered Mr C £30 (in vouchers) in 
recognition of them failing to call Mr C back when they said they would.
Mr C wasnt happy with Links response, saying  that the compensation amount should be 
closer to £85,000 in recognition of him losing his job because of the incorrect reporting on 
his credit file. Mr C referred his complaint to this service for investigation. 
The investigator found that Link had acted fairly in updated the CRAs in 2019, which  is when 
they became aware that Mr Cs bankruptcy was completed in 2016.  The investigator also 
said the compensation offered was reasonable, and didnt recommend  Link pay anything 
more. 
Mr C rejected the investigators  findings saying that Link wouldve been informed about  his 
bankruptcy being discharged by the CRAs in 2016.  Mr C said Link hadnt followed the 
requirements under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by failing to update their 
records.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr C. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings,  and I wont be recommending further compensation for 
this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C but I hope 
my findings  go some  way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.   
Ref: DRN75111672Mr C feels strongly  that Link shouldve updated  their records in 2016 to show the debt as 
satisfied as this is the time that all his creditors were  told of his bankruptcy  ending.  Im sorry 
to hear of the circumstances Mr C now finds himself in. Its clear  that Mr C feels  very strongly  
that Link are to blame for him losing his job because  of the information  they held about him.
Ive looked at the evidence, and I think Link have acted fairly by updating their records in 
2019 when they were  contacted by Mr C. The reason  I say this is because  the OR has also 
said that its not usual process  for an OR to contact creditors and tell them that a bankruptcy 
has been discharged. This supports the version of events provided  by the OR and Link,  as 
theyve both confirmed  that the last update sent to Link about Mr Cs bankruptcy  was in 
2015. I think its fair to say that Link didnt hear any more about  Mr Cs bankruptcy until 2019  
when Mr C contacted  them  himself, and confirmed the bankruptcy discharge date of 2016.  
Mr C says that his other creditors  had told the CRAs about his bankruptcy,  so the CRAs 
wouldve had this information. The current complaint is about Link. So Im only looking at the 
service they provided-  not any CRAs that were  involved. I havent seen any evidence to say 
that Link failed  to act on information  given to them by a CRA. 
Although Mr C feels that this information wouldve been known to Link, through  GDPR, its 
not the role of this service to punish  a business for any failings under GDPR. We make 
decisions based on what we thinks fair and reasonable, and whats likely to have happened 
on balance. In this case the evidence indicates  that Link were only informed in 2019 about 
Mr Cs bankruptcy being discharged in 2016.  Mr C thinks  Link shouldve  known earlier,  
because of GDPR and the requirement to share  information. But when looking at whats  fair 
in the circumstances, I havent  seen any evidence to support  that Link had been provided 
with information  which they failed to act on. So I dont think its fair to say that they did 
something wrong in the information  they held about Mr C from 2016, until 2019. 
Link have offered £30 worth of vouchers in recognition of their communication  with Mr C, as 
they didnt call him back when they said they would. I think this amount is fair, so wont  be 
recommending Link pay anymore.
It looks like Mr C has started legal action against  Link for the same complaint addressed in 
this decision. Mr C may wish to take independent  legal advice if he intends to continue  with 
legal action having had a final decision on the same complaint by this service.  
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
The offer Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  have made to Mr C is fair and reasonable. I 
leave it to Mr C to decide whether to accept this offer by the date specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7511167