K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained about the treatment he received from his local Nationwide Building
Society branch  when  withdrawing cash from his account.
Background
Mr D visited his local Nationwide branch to withdraw  £500 in £10 notes from his current
account. The staff queried the signature  on his withdrawal slip before taking him into a
private room where the manager processed his request.
Mr D said the staff were rude and unhelpful. He thought they were unfair when they queried
his signature as the manager agreed to process  his request anyway. He said the manager
was rude and discriminated against  him during their private conversation.  Mr D feels the
branch treated him unfairly due to his disabilities so wanted compensation to recognise this.
Nationwide didnt think theyd acted unfairly  when  querying Mr Ds signature. They  said they
were right to ask for additional  information  to make sure they protected Mr Ds account  from
fraudulent activity. They also didnt think the manager or any of the other staff members  had 
been rude towards him. As Mr D received  the £500 as he requested,  they thought their 
service had been reasonable. Mr D remained unhappy with this response,  so he referred his 
complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  thought Nationwide  had a
duty of care to its customers  so acted fairly when asking  for more information. They
recognised Mr D may not have fully understood why his signature was queried but didnt
think the staff had been rude.
Mr D disagreed. He raised  concerns about  the managers  version of events  that had been
emailed to the complaint handler.  He was also unhappy the withdrawal slip hadnt been  kept
on record despite his requests.  But Nationwide  hadnt had the chance to respond these
aspects of the complaint. So, they were  allowed to do so before the complaint was 
progressed any further.
Nationwide responded saying they thought the manager had provided an account  that 
reflected the events  that day so didnt  agree  that the email was evidence  of mis-conduct or
that Mr D had been discriminated against. But they acknowledged there had been an error
when attempting  to locate the withdrawal  slip and offered £50 to apologise  for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February  2020,  where  I explained my intention to not 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
the complaint.  And Ill explain why.
Signature
I can see Mr D felt frustrated when his signature  was queried only for the withdrawal to be
approved anyway. Im unable to be sure exactly what was said by the member of staff but
both Mr D and Nationwides accounts say the request wasnt turned down outright, only that
Ref: DRN78398722further information was needed. As Mr D already understood withdrawals of £500  and under 
could be requested without this information,  I think this would have caused some  confusion.  
But I dont think it was Nationwides  intention.  They have a duty of care to make sure they 
protect Mr D and any other account  against potentially fraudulent activity. I dont think  they
would ask for extra information  unless  they had a valid concern, so I think they acted
reasonably. Mr D is unhappy as he thinks Nationwide initially told him further information
was needed as it was a simple signature before providing another explanation that the
signature didnt  exactly  match. But, in either  situation I think  Nationwide  were acting in Mr
Ds best interests so although there  are slight differences  in the reasoning,  I cant  say
Nationwide have acted  unfairly.
After a discussion with Mr D, Nationwide  approved  and processed the withdrawal. So, Mr D
received the money he requested in the notes he asked for. Although I understand Mr D
believes this shows the branch made an error by asking for additional  information  in the first
place, I dont think it would be fair for me to find Nationwide have  acted unfairly by
completing the withdrawal  Mr D wanted.
Conduct of staff
As mentioned above, I dont think the staff member asking for more information  means  they
were rude to Mr D. Im aware the manager  stepped in when  Mr D voiced his concerns and
took him to a private  room  for a more  in-depth conversation. As part of their investigation into
Mr Ds complaint, Nationwide asked the branch manager to document their version events.
This version  of events  was made available to Mr D, who in turn was upset at the way he was
referred to. So, Ive considered what was written and compared Nationwides recollection  to
the testimony Mr D has provided to decide  whether I think the branch manager acted fairly.
And I think they did.
I think its important for me to explain that the email sent by the branch manager was her
recollection of events. So, it portrays her own view of what happened  and what  she saw that
day. I think its likely there  would be differences in the way she saw the version of events to
the way Mr D recollects, as its likely they reacted  to the same conversations in different
ways. Because  of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say the branch managers
version of events were  false unless  there  were  clear sections that seemed unrealistic or
exaggerated. On this occasion,  I dont  think they were.
Both versions of events  agree  that Mr D had a disagreement with a customer before going
through additional security checks regarding his signature.  They also agree that the branch
manager took Mr D into a private room where  there was a discussion before Mr D was given
the cash as he requested.  Both versions also agree that the branch manager  provided her
details for Mr D to contact her if he needed  similar withdrawals in the future.
I can appreciate the terminology the branch manager used to describe Mr D would be
upsetting for Mr D to see. I dont doubt  this would have been hurtful and I can understand
why Mr D sees this as evidence the staff in branch acted unfairly towards him. Ideally, the
branch manager  couldve  considered the terminology  they were using. But the email reflects
the feelings of the branch  manager at the time and it was written for internal  use only. If I
were to say the branch manager had acted unfairly  when  writing the email, which  she feels
is an accurate version of events, I would also be saying that the branch managers feelings
were unreasonable. And this is a human emotion which I dont think  is fair for me to criticise.
Ref: DRN78398723Im satisfied that the wording of the branch managers email  was an accurate  version  of what
she felt and her opinion of what she saw. I understand Mr D saw certain aspects of the
conversation differently.  In particular, he doesnt  think the branch manager made reasonable
adjustments when  he made her aware  of his disability. While the branch managers email
does say they didnt get into a long conversation about his disability, it also explains clearly
how Mr D wanted to be communicated  with. 
So, I think its fair for me to decide that the branch  manager listened to this request and took 
it into account. Ive also seen the branch manager  provided her direct  contact  details after Mr 
D had received the cash to help prevent any similar issues in the future which I think is a 
service additional  to the one most  customers would  receive.
I dont doubt that Mr D was offended  by parts of the service he received  from Nationwide.
And I dont  doubt  that both the branch  manager  and Mr D reacted differently to the same
situation. But, for me to agree that Nationwide and the branch manager  have acted
unreasonably, Id have to be sure that theyd  purposely discriminated against  Mr D and
acted unfavourably  towards him. From the evidence  Ive seen, and considering  both
testimonies, I cant agree  that thats been  the case. So, I dont think  Nationwide  need to do
anything more to resolve  this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Im also aware that Nationwide acknowledged  their failure to find the withdrawal slip that Mr
D asked them to keep  on record.  To acknowledge this, they offered Mr D £50. As Mr D has
now received a copy of the slip and considering Mr Ds acceptance of Nationwides
admittance, I think this offer is fair and I dont think they need to do anything  further.
responses
Nationwide accepted the provisional decision and had no further comments  to provide. Mr D 
acknowledged the provisional  decision and provided  no further comments for me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
Neither Nationwide or Mr D have provided further comments  that I need to address or further 
information that may change my mind.  So, my decision remains that I dont think Nationwide 
need to do anything further  to resolve  Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about  Nationwide  Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Ref: DRN78398724Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7839872