K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about what happened  when he asked British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI)  
to send an engineer to his home.
background
Mr T told us that hed phoned  BGI when he had a problem with his heating  and hot water, 
and a leak. He said that required emergency  attention. Hes told us that his family  
circumstances mean  he needs  to keep the heat on. 
Mr T said that an engineer came  out on Tuesday 17 April, knocked,  and then immediately 
left. He said that the engineer hadnt  tried to call him before he arrived, or while  he was at 
the door. And he didnt leave a card. Mr T said that hed only gone  to the bathroom, but the 
engineer was gone by the time he got to the door. Mr T said he rang the service  team  
straight away, but they wouldnt  send anyone back until Friday. 
Mr T said hed thought about  this, then rung back and cancelled his contract, because he 
was so frustrated. Hed paid a third party  to fix the heating and the leak, which  didnt get 
done until Friday  anyway. 
Mr T said that BGI had paid him £90 for his complaint. He said he appreciated that, but it 
wasnt enough to make up for what had happened. He wanted BGI to pay the invoice that he 
had settled for work done to fix the heating, and he wanted to re-join BGI.
BGI wrote to Mr T and said that its engineer had tried to ring him, but the call didnt connect. 
And the engineer did ring the bell and knock on the door, with no answer. He didnt leave a 
card just because hed run out of them.
BGI said its engineer had no availability  to return to the house that day. The appointment 
could be rescheduled for Friday, but Mr T was unhappy with that, and hed cancelled  his 
cover. BGI said it had received an invoice for work Mr T had done,  but it wouldnt pay that. It 
said that Mr T had only got the work  done on the Friday, which  was when  it had offered to do 
it anyway. And it wouldnt pay back the premiums  Mr T had paid because it had already 
been out to his property  to attend breakdowns  a number of times  during that year of cover. 
Mr T said hes since tried to re-join BGI, but it terminated his contract  immediately, because  
his boiler no longer fits its required  standard. Hes asked for a new boiler, which will cost a 
little over £5,000,  but hes lost a discount  of £200 on that, as hes no longer a customer. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that she was satisfied that the engineer did 
try to call him. It was possible that Mr T just didnt have a signal.  
Our investigator said that the engineer did go to Mr Ts home. She thought that he was there 
for longer than the 30 seconds  of video that Mr T had, because hed just knocked on the 
door at the end of the recording. She said that she didnt think  the engineer  had been 
unreasonable, because he had already tried to call Mr T, and he could see Mr T had a video 
doorbell, so he wouldve  expected Mr T to be able to see and speak to him using that.
Our investigator said that the engineer had offered to return later that day. The office had 
arranged an alternative  appointment instead.  Shed asked BGI about that, and it hadnt  
replied. She thought that it wouldve been  reasonable  for an appointment to have been  
made later that day. 
Ref: DRN72780782Our investigator said that, although  Mr T then cancelled his cover,  he did have cover when 
his boiler broke down.  And hed cancelled  under  the mistaken belief that BGI couldnt send 
anyone until Friday. She said that it looked  as if BGI was proposing to do the repair  on the 
same day that Mr T eventually got it done.  But she said she had to take into account that the 
repair could and should have been  done sooner. Our investigator thought that BGI should 
pay for the repair that Mr T got done by someone  else. 
Our investigator said that Mr T had been inconvenienced by this, and would  also have been 
concerned by the inconvenience to his family. She thought that BGIs compensation 
payment of £90 was enough to make  up for that.
Mr T accepted that proposal. But BGI refused.  It said that it didnt think  it should  have to pay 
Mr Ts invoice. It didnt  think  it had failed to provide the required service. It had offered the 
next available appointment. It said that unfortunately it couldnt  control  engineer availability if 
many customers contacted it at the same time. And BGI said that its terms and conditions 
state that it wont offer a cash alternative  instead of making repairs  under  the policy. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr T had home emergency  cover  with BGI that provided for repairs to his central  heating  
system. BGI hadnt  suggested  that the emergency that Mr T reported,  or the repairs that 
were eventually  done by a third party, wouldnt have  been covered under Mr Ts policy.  
-BGI sent an engineer to Mr Ts home. But Mr T didnt manage  to get to the door before  
that engineer  had left. I thought that was probably  just due to an unfortunate combination  
of circumstances,  including  calls not connecting  and Mr T not having  his phone to hand. 
Those meant that the engineer had, not unreasonably, formed  the view that Mr T wasnt  
in, when he was.
-Mr T rang to rebook the appointment, and was told no one could attend  until Friday. BGI 
said that it may sometimes be busy, and have less engineer  availability, if many 
customers contact it at the same time. I appreciated that would be possible. But I didnt 
think that was what  happened here. 
-This seemed to me to be a quite unusual, and slightly  odd, case.  BGI told Mr T that he 
could have an appointment  three days later, on Friday. BGIs letter to him about his 
complaint also said it had rebooked the next available appointment,  and its engineer had 
no availability to return the same day. But BGIs own internal  notes  made clear that this 
wasnt right at all. 
-BGIs  internal notes  said its engineer  was contacted later the same  day, and he did offer 
to return that day. It wasnt clear  whether  BGI had tried to call the engineer  straight 
away, or whether  hed offered  to return to Mr Ts home before or after Mr T had 
cancelled his contract.  BGIs notes didnt  show that this offer was passed on to Mr T.
-Mr T told us that the person who dealt with his first call, when he rang to rebook his 
appointment, was very unhelpful,  and a supervisor  that he spoke to after this was also, in 
his words, rough. Mr T had agreed, after speaking  to BGIs complaints team, that he 
Ref: DRN72780783would stay with BGI, but he then gave this some thought, after this first call had ended, 
and decided that he would leave. 
-Although our investigator asked for a recording of this first call, BGI hadnt supplied it. 
That was unfortunate,  as the reasonableness or otherwise of what  Mr T did when  he 
rang back to cancel his cover  with BGI might be affected by what happened on that call. 
-Because I didnt  have  that call, I had to decide what  was more likely to have happened. 
And, on balance, I thought it was likely  that BGI let Mr T down. He told us that he has a 
disabled family member, so he has to keep the heat on. He also told us hed told BGI 
this. I didnt know if this was mentioned on this first call. But I thought  it was important to 
Mr T to get this repair done  quickly. And because  Mr T told us hed made  BGI aware of 
his family  circumstances, it seemed likely BGI knew that, or shouldve  done. BGIs own 
internal notes suggested it was able to get someone out to Mr Ts home on the same 
day. And BGI hadnt offered any reason or explanation as to why the offer that its 
engineer made, to return to Mr Ts property the same day, wasnt  passed on to Mr T. 
-Mr T rang back,  and we did have a recording of that second call. Id listened carefully to 
this call, and Mr T didnt come across  as angry, just rather  disappointed. It seemed to me 
that Mr T had reached the conclusion, at that point,  that he was just better off without 
BGI, and hed get someone out to do the repairs  himself. BGI didnt seem to have done 
anything to suggest to Mr T that he wasnt right about that.
-I thought that Mr T had rethought his position after this, once he had tried to get repairs 
done himself. The invoice hed sent suggested  that he didnt manage to get anyone out 
until Friday anyway.  He said he planned to rejoin BGI. 
-But I didnt think that made what Mr T did, in response to BGIs failures in this case, 
unreasonable. Like our investigator,  I thought that BGI could and should (particularly 
given Mr Ts family  situation) have provided  a repair  faster  than it did. BGI hadnt 
explained its failure to do that, especially as it was in a position to do so. I thought that if 
BGI hadnt let Mr T down, then he wouldnt have terminated his contract. 
-Ending this contract seemed likely to end up costing Mr T a lot of money.  He had told us 
that BGI wouldnt let him rejoin until he pays  about £5,000 for a new boiler.  I didnt think 
that it was BGIs fault that Mr T would need  to upgrade his central  heating  if he wanted  to 
take out new cover with BGI. 
-But our investigator rightly pointed out that Mr T did have cover for the repairs  hed 
requested at the time his boiler broke down. And he ended up paying for those repairs 
himself, because BGI let him down. Because I thought  that Mr T made  a reasonable 
decision, to try to source a repair himself,  and because I thought he did that in response 
to what did look like BGIs unreasonable failure  to arrange an earlier  appointment in 
circumstances where  it apparently couldve  done  so, I thought  that in these  particular 
circumstances that it was both fair and reasonable to ask BGI to pay the cost of those 
repairs, less the excess that Mr T wouldve paid anyway.  
-BGI made two comments about this. Firstly, it said Mr T didnt actually get the repair 
done until Friday  anyway. So he was no better off, after he cancelled  his contract. I 
appreciated that Mr T didnt get the repairs done  any faster,  but I thought Mr T cancelled  
his contract because he felt BGI had let him down. I didnt think that changed because 
Mr T later discovered that he couldnt  get a faster service by calling an engineer direct.  
Ref: DRN72780784-BGI also suggested that it shouldnt have to pay what Mr T paid for the repairs,  just what 
it wouldve paid its engineer. But that didnt  seem to me to be the loss that BGI caused  
when it let Mr T down. So, having  decided that, in these particular circumstances, BGI 
should pay for the repairs, it didnt seem to me to be reasonable to restrict the payment 
in this way. 
-For those reasons, I agreed with the resolution  that our investigator proposed.  I said that 
BGI should pay Mr T the sum detailed  on the invoice he has provided, for repairs  to his 
boiler, which was £608.39,  minus  the excess detailed on his renewal letter of £60. I 
thought that was the right amount to make up for the poor service that Mr T was provided 
with by BGI, and for the problems  he experienced as a result of that. I thought that, plus 
the compensation of £90 that BGI had already  paid in this case, provided a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr T replied to say that he agreed  with my decision. BGI didnt reply.
my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything further in this case, Ive still reconsidered  all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr T £608.39, minus the 
excess of £60, in addition to the £90 compensation its already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7278078