K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  has failed to deal with concerns he has 
about his accounts and his data. He says it unfairly  imposed a solution on him without 
discussing it first.
Background
Mr H has various  accounts with Nationwide. He has made a number of complaints to 
Nationwide and some  of these have already been covered by another complaint with this 
service. 
For clarity this complaint  relates to the following issues:
Mr H says Nationwide failed to provide  him with all the information  it should  have 
done after he requested a Subject Access Request (SAR) under the Data Protection  
Act ;
it sent correspondence, in connection with his relationship with it, to the wrong 
address; and
despite assurances that the address had been changed it sent a further letter  
addressed to his wife to the wrong  address 
Nationwide has responded to these  concerns and said, in summary, it had missed some  
documents when  Mr H requested a SAR, it apologised  for the problems experienced with the 
change of his address  and for failing  to amend it. It paid Mr H a total of £700 for this and 
several other  issues not covered by this complaint. Mr H was also unhappy Nationwide 
closed his complaints  and paid him the money without waiting for his agreement  first.
As Mr H remained unhappy with Nationwides response he brought  his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said, in summary,  she didnt  think Nationwide  had delivered the service to Mr H 
that it ought to have  but said it had acknowledged  this and paid him £700 to apologise  She 
was satisfied Nationwide had done enough  to put things  right and didnt ask it to do any 
more.  
Mr H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint and make  a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to say how I think a complaint should be 
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. When making a decision on this Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. I have thoroughly read all the evidence 
submitted by the parties but Ill comment only on those things I consider relevant to the 
decision I need to make. That means  I may not comment on some  of the issues raised or 
questions asked by Mr H.
Information received  under the SAR
Ref: DRN79900922Mr H says Nationwide has failed to provide  all the information it should  have done when he 
requested a SAR.  Our investigator  was correct when she explained this service is not the 
most appropriate body  to deal with this concern.
She explained to Mr H that the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) is the body 
appointed to deal with concerns about information  rights including  consumers rights to 
obtain copies  of the data businesses hold about  them. She provided Mr H with details of how 
to contact the ICO to pursue his concerns. I dont  think theres anything further of value I can 
add to what she said.
Correspondence sent to the wrong address
Nationwide accepts that it sent correspondence relating to its relationship  with Mr H to the 
wrong address  and its apologised  for this error.  
Its said his address has been  updated  and has provided evidence  to this service  which  
confirms this. Its also explained that his complaint has highlighted an issue with the way it 
deals with address  changes.
Im satisfied Nationwide has admitted its error,  shown its corrected it and has taken steps to 
address the problem it discovered with its change  of address process. In doing this, Im 
satisfied Nationwide  has taken Mr Hs concerns seriously. 
In summary,  Nationwide has done what Id have expected it to do and I wont be asking it to 
do any more.
Correspondence addressed to Mrs H
After receiving reassurances  that his address  had been updated, Mr H provided  this service 
with a copy of a letter Nationwide sent to his wife at the incorrect  address.  Our investigator 
correctly explained  that Mr Hs complaint only covered the issues  relating  to his relationship 
with Nationwide, not his wifes. 
She explained Mrs H could make a separate complaint to Nationwide if she remained 
concerned about  this issue.  But it wasnt something we could consider under this complaint.
Complaint handling  and compensation
Mr H had a number of concerns  about  how Nationwide has handled his complaints. Hes not 
happy that Nationwide has closed his complaints  and paid him compensation without first 
agreeing this with him.
Complaint handling  is not a regulated activity  so its not something on which  I plan to make  a 
finding. That said, I think its worth  me explaining  that once a business issues a final 
response, it will have  reached  the end of its complaint  process. The very nature of a final 
response means a mutual agreement to close the complaint is unlikely as theres still a 
disagreement about the outcome. 
Having reached  this deadlock, consumers have  the right to bring their complaint to this 
service for us to consider.  The business is no longer  obliged to correspond about the 
complaint and theres little else for it to do but close the complaint down. It will however be 
obliged to cooperate with us if the consumer asks us to have a look at it.
Turning to the issue of compensation, Nationwide paid Mr H a total of £700  to apologise. I 
know Mr H wasnt  happy it did this without  him agreeing to it. But from its final response,  
Ref: DRN79900923Nationwide clearly explained that if he retained the payment, it wouldnt affect his right to 
bring his complaint to this service.
This action  is a commercial decision on Nationwides part and I see no reason why it 
shouldnt have done this if it wished to. I also cant see this has had a detrimental impact on 
Mr H or his ability to pursue his complaint further  if he wished to - which  he has gone  on to 
do by bringing  his complaint to this service.
Conclusion
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and I wont be 
instructing Nationwide to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7990092