K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax has irresponsibly given her an 
overdraft facility that was unaffordable.
background
Miss M says her account was upgraded to give her an overdraft facility. She says the 
overdraft limit was increased  through 2018 and she paid a large  amount in charges. Miss M 
says that caused  her financial  hardship and that she spent hours on the telephone to Halifax 
about this problem. She says as a result  of what took place she was forced to walk some  
distance to her nearest Halifax branch.
Halifax says Miss M applied for the overdraft  and the increases to the limit. It says the 
applications were  credit scored but it says it did refund some of the charges and has 
arranged to pass the account  to a specialist team. Halifax says it told Miss M that she could 
open a new account which would prevent her from attending a branch.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought  
the lending was unaffordable as Miss Ms income  was that of benefits and she had limited 
disposable income. The investigator  recommended that Halifax  consider writing  off the 
overdraft debt. But thought it had acted  fairly  be refunding charges and paying a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for a mistake related  to this complaint.
Halifax didnt accept  that view and says its decision to lend was based on incorrect 
information given  by Miss M.
Miss M also didnt accept that view and says she should be entitled  to compensation.
The investigator issued  a second  view in which he came to the same  overall  view.  In 
summary he said Halifaxs own calculations  confirmed  that shortly  after the last overdraft 
increase that Miss M did not have any disposable income. He again didnt think 
compensation appropriate as he was asking Halifax to write off the debt.
Halifax has said it will write off the debt of about £800 but without any admission  of liability. It 
says Miss M must have arranged new banking as there  are no longer any credits paid into 
the account.
Miss M doesnt accept  that view and disputes receiving some of the refunded charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view to the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise that Miss M will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I have looked  at Miss Ms account statements and Halifaxs assessment of her financial 
position. I can see that by Halifaxs own calculations Miss M had a very limited amount of 
disposable income and that it accepts that its decision to lend was based  on Miss M 
providing it with incorrect  details. So I have come to the overall view that both parties should 
take some  responsibility  for what took place. Im satisfied that Miss M ought to have provided 
Ref: DRN78509002correct information  about her work  status. And that Halifax ought to have been aware of 
Miss Ms true financial position and checked  that application in more detail. I also think  that 
Halifax should have  looked far closer at Miss Ms repeated applications for overdraft 
increases within  a very short  period  of time.  So I have come to the overall view that the 
lending was irresponsible in the circumstances.
Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly looked again at Miss Ms position and taken what  I think  is 
a fair and reasonable approach by agreeing to write off the account balance of just over 
£800. I appreciate  that Miss M says she should  receive compensation for what took place. 
But I dont think compensation is appropriate  here as Miss M had the benefit of the money 
and I also think that Halifax has tried to help her position by refunding charges and by 
passing her account  to a specialist team.
I appreciate Miss M says Halifaxs actions meant she spent some time on the telephone to it 
and had to walk some distance to a branch on occasions. But I think  Halifax  offered 
reasonable solutions to Miss H for example by suggesting she open  a new account with it. I 
also think Halifax acted fairly by paying  a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation in 
respect of another related complaint Miss M had but which  I accept is not the main part of 
this complaint.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has fairly  agreed  to write off the account balance  and so I cant  
fairly order it to do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that 
Miss M is likely to remain unhappy with my decision but I think  that brings  an end to what  we 
in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do. I also appreciate  Miss M says not all of 
the charges were refunded.  I make clear I can not see any evidence that was the case but in 
any event as Halifax has agreed to write off the debt I dont  think that matters. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to write  off Miss Ms overdraft balance. Miss Ms acceptance of that offer 
would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7850900