K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  provided him with incorrect information, when 
he made a claim under  his property owners  insurance policy.  
background 
Mr C has explained that in September 2017 he contacted UKI, because there had been 
some water damage in a tenement block in which he owns  a flat. He explained  that a 
communal drain had become blocked, and this had caused water  damage to some  of the 
common areas of the block, as well as to two other flats in the building.
Mr C said he was told that under Scottish Law (The Tenement Act 2004) he was obligated to 
contribute towards the repair work needed  to both the communal areas, and the individual  
flats in this instance  alongside the other property owners in the building. So, he contacted 
UKI to ask whether this was the case  and therefore whether  he could claim under his 
policy for his part of the repair costs.  UKI said he wasnt  obligated to pay for the work to the 
individual flats.  So, Mr C said he told his neighbours this. They disagreed  with this position 
and so Mr Cs relationship with them became strained.
Mr C contacted UKI again about the issue in January 2018 to see whether his policy could 
respond. UKI maintained  its position.  But, in February 2018 it sought  advice from solicitors 
about the matter.  And in early March  2018  it agreed  that it would need  to accept a claim for 
the damage to the common areas,  and the individual  flats,  where  the damage was to load 
bearing parts of the building. UKI would therefore  pay towards these repairs on Mr Cs 
behalf. 
Mr C said that if he had known this initially, he would have agreed  to contribute  towards the 
necessary works, and he wouldnt  be in the position  he is in now  with relations with his 
neighbours having broken  down,  and him having  had little input into the works that have 
been agreed between the other property  owners. 
UKI agreed  that it did provide  incorrect  information  to Mr C until March 2018  when it realised  
it had made  a mistake. It offered to pay him £250 compensation. It later agreed to increase 
this by £50 following our investigators involvement.  So, the total compensation paid to him 
was £300. 
UKI also agreed to pay the costs Mr C would need  to pay towards  repairing the damage he 
was responsible for as a result  of provisions in Scottish law  where this was covered  by his 
policy. 
Our investigator agreed UKI had provided incorrect information to Mr C. She initially felt UKI 
should issue a letter of apology and send a bunch of flowers  to Mr Cs neighbours, to try and 
help rebuild his relationship with them. But, she later explained she didnt feel providing the 
letter of apology  or the bunch of flowers  would be necessary  given UKI had already 
apologised for the mistake it had made,  and the neighbours  were  a third party, not UKIs 
customers. Our investigator felt UKI had already done enough to mitigate further problems 
arising. So, she felt the amount of £300  compensation  (including the additional  £50 
recommended) was fair. 
Ref: DRN79314452Mr C didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. He felt UKI should still send a letter of 
apology to his neighbours, as he felt UKIs error  was what  had caused the difficulties  he was 
now experiencing with them.
Because Mr C didnt agree, this complaint has been  provided to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasons for this below. 
Ive reviewed the documents for Mr Cs policy,  to see what  cover his policy  provides him 
with. On doing so, I can see that his property owners insurance policy provides him with 
cover for damage to the structure of the building caused by a number of defined  
contingencies. These  contingencies provide cover for damage caused by water. This 
building is defined as follows;
Section 1: The Structure
Definition
Buildings
Buildings at the Premises  including landlords  fixture and fittings swimming pools tennis  
courts walls gates fences patios terraces drives  yards  patios  terraces  car parks car ports  
road pavements and associated underground pipes  and cables  belonging to You or for 
which You are responsible. The buildings also include  shop fronts  and all fixed  glass therein, 
blinds and fitments thereon and internal  decorations on ceilings, walls and the like for which  
You are responsible  as owner  of the premises.
Given the above, Im aware Mr Cs policy does provide cover for the buildings at the 
premises insured that belong  to Mr C, or for which he is responsible. 
In February 2018  UKI sought legal  advice, and it was told that Mr C was responsible for 
damage to both the communal areas  of the tenement,  as well as damage in individual  flats in 
the tenement  where the damage was to load bearing elements of the property. In this 
case, the damage to the property was within the hallway, stairs and landings,  as well as to 
two individual  flats where there were problems with load bearing elements  floor and ceiling 
joists. So, Im satisfied that under the policy terms the damage  Mr C claimed for was 
covered.
UKI now accept this. It agrees that it provided Mr C with incorrect  advice for five months after 
he initially  raised the matter with it. As UKI has accepted it made  an error, I dont need to 
discuss the error any further.
But, Ive had to think about whether UKI has acted reasonably or not, in the way that it 
proposed to resolve the issue. As detailed above, UKI agreed to accept  the claim after 
realising its error, and it said it would cover  the areas of damage  the policy provided cover  
for. I think this is fair  given the cover Mr C has in place. So, I dont require it to do anything  
more in respect of the claim.
Ref: DRN79314453UKI has also offered  Mr C an amount of £300 compensation for the inconvenience and 
upset its incorrect advice  caused. Ive thought carefully about  whether I think  this amount  is 
sufficient to recognise the unnecessary trouble and upset caused to Mr C. And Im satisfied 
UKIs offer is fair. 
I say this because  I think  it is enough  to recognise the trouble and upset Mr C experienced 
as a result  of UKIs  error. Im aware  there were delays in UKI accepting Mr Cs claim, 
because of the incorrect advice it gave. And Mr C has explained  this caused difficulties with 
the neighbouring property  owners, because he relayed the incorrect information he received 
from UKI to them. I can understand how this situation would have  been  distressing for Mr C, 
especially as he has said he had good  relations with the neighbours in the past.
UKI has provided information to show there  were  other factors that contributed to delays with 
the repairs process too. I cant be sure what happened with all of the various third parties  
also involved  in the loss  such as the other flat owners. But, I do accept there  may have  
been factors  other than UKIs error  that caused delays during the claim,  for example a delay 
in the contractors being able to start work.  So, I dont think UKI were responsible for all 
delays that occurred during the claim process. 
Mr C would also like UKI to send a letter of apology to his neighbours. I know  he feels 
strongly about this  and that it will help resolve  the problems hes now experiencing with his 
neighbours. But, I need to be mindful  that when looking at complaints at this service,  I can 
only consider the trouble and upset  caused  to Mr C, as the policyholder,  and not whether it 
should take action with third parties  that have no relationship with UKI. So, I dont 
recommend UKI send  a letter to the neighbours. And given this, I dont recommend UKI 
send flowers to Mr Cs neighbours. Im satisfied the £300 compensation offered to Mr C is 
fair to recognise the distress UKI caused  Mr C. 
Mr C has also said that because UKI initially said he didnt need to contribute  to repairing the 
damage, and delayed  its acceptance of the claim,  he didnt have any involvement with the 
scope of works that was been agreed for the repair to the property.  I do accept this is the 
case. And that this would have been  frustrating. But, I havent seen anything  that suggests  
the repairs agreed were  unreasonable.  And UKI has agreed to accept the claim. So, Im 
satisfied Mr C hasnt suffered a loss in this respect.
Mr C also said because of UKIs mistake he would have missed  the opportunity to discuss  
any further work with his neighbours, should  further work need  to be considered  during the 
rest of the claim. But, UKI has provided information to show it was been  if additional work  
was required the property owners would  need to refer this to a second vote before any work  
went ahead. So, Mr C would be able to discuss this and vote on the matter too. And, at that 
point UKI would need to consider whether  these  costs were covered by the policy.
I think UKI has now acted reasonably by agreeing to the claim and to compensate Mr C. So, 
I dont recommend it do anything more.
Since referring his complaint to this service Mr C has raised some concerns about UKIs  
security process, when calling its customers.  And, he said hed liked this issue to also be 
considered as part of his complaint. I havent  done so, because  that concern is different  from 
the subject of this complaint. If Mr C has new concerns, about a different issue such  as this, 
he will need  to raise  a separate complaint and they will be considered then.
Ref: DRN79314454my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. If UK Insurance 
Limited hasnt already  done so, I require  it to;
Pay Mr C an amount  of £300  compensation in total (to include the £250  previously 
offered, and the additional £50 agreed  with this service)  to recognise the distress 
hes experienced as a result of UKIs error.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7931445