K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about information  provided  at renewal of his golf club insurance policy  
with The Equine  and Livestock Insurance Company Limited.
background
Mr K held his policy with Equine and Livestock for the year July 2017 to July 2018. When his 
policy was coming up for renewal in June 2018,  he was sent a pack  from Equine and 
Livestock. The pack contained  details of some changes to the policy  terms and the renewal 
premium, which  was £23.20 for the year.
However, Mr K is extremely unhappy at the way the renewal information was presented.     
Mr K says the new premium should have been on the first page  of this information  but it was 
on page 8, of 14 pages of small  print documentation  and there was no indication on the first 
page of where  the premium information  could be found. Mr K says it was not good enough to 
have this information hidden in this way and it falls foul of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) rules and guidance  about  such matters. 
Mr K cancelled the policy. However, he has asked for an apology for not being treated fairly  
and for Equine  and Livestock to change its practice,  so that renewal  premiums  are always  
shown on the front cover of any renewal documents.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. She considered that the information  was sufficiently clear for Mr K to know  what  the 
new premium  was; and he had chosen to cancel the policy  and not renew in any event  and 
so there  was no detriment  to him. 
Mr K doesnt  accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are clear rules contained  in the FCA Handbook about the need for insurers to provide 
customers with clear, fair and not misleading  information so that they may make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take out an insurance policy.  Fundamental to this must be 
the price that is payable.  However, it doesnt state this must always be on the first page of 
any information provided to a consumer.
I therefore agree with Mr K that the price that Equine  and Lifestock wanted to charge for the 
policy year starting in July 2018,  needed  to be presented clearly to him and it should also be 
reasonably prominent. 
 
The premium details  were  several pages into the pack but the pack consisted of different  
documents. The front page of the pack says where  the premium  details  could be found: 
 Please  see your policy schedule for full details of your renewal premium, any specific 
notes, disclosures, warranties or exclusions that have been applied to your policy. Please 
ensure you have checked that your insurance cover still meets your needs.
Ref: DRN79379282The policy schedule started on page 8 and set out the premium for the new policy  year and 
the previous premium sufficiently clearly in my opinion. And I note Mr K did see the renewal 
premium and contacted  Equine and Livestock apparently  the same  day to complain about  it 
and to cancel  the policy, as he had found  a similar  policy cheaper elsewhere.  
However, even if I agreed with Mr K that this wasnt sufficiently prominent,  I have no power 
to discipline  Equine  and Lifestock, or to require it to change  its practice.  As the investigator 
has already said, that is for the FCA;  although  we do publish our decisions and businesses 
are required  to account of them. 
In addition, I dont  consider  that there has been any detriment to Mr K as a result  of the 
premium information being on page  8. Mr K did see the new premium and decided  not to 
renew the policy; his position would therefore be no different if the premium information had 
been on the front page. I also dont  intend to ask Equine and Livestock to apologise to Mr K. 
Even if I thought it had acted unfairly and an apology  was appropriate, a forced apology 
would have no meaning.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937928