K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo).
background
In October  2018 Mr H was supplied  with a  second  hand car and entered  into a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motonovo.
After approximately  two weeks  Mr H experienced issues with the car cutting out and the 
engine management  light illuminating. He returned  the car to the supplying dealer and the 
alarm sensor and a connection to the ad blue pump were repaired.  Following this the car cut 
out again and the engine management light illuminated. Mr H returned the car to the dealer  
who carried out further repairs.
The car cut out a third time in December 2018.  Mr H contacted Motonovo and said he 
wanted to reject the car. Mr H asked the dealer not to carry out any further  repairs. Despite 
this, further repairs  were carried out.
Motonovo arranged  for an independent inspection of the car. The inspection  concluded that 
there were no faults. Motonovo  advised Mr H that it wouldnt  accept a rejection. Mr H was 
unhappy with the repose and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that Mr H hadnt authorised the last repair  
and shouldve been able to reject  the car. The investigator said that because  the car had 
been successfully  repaired he couldnt recommend a rejection  now.  He recommended  that 
Motonovo paid compensation  of £250 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
him by having to return the car to the dealer  three times.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt the compensation recommended  was too low and said he was still 
having issues with the car. He said the car was due for a service and the mechanic who 
looked at it said it had worn brake pads, an air filter which  had never been replaced and that 
the ad blue cables werent connected  properly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Where a fault occurs  within the first 30 days the consumer has an immediate  right to reject 
the car. Theres no obligation to accept a repair. After 30 days and during the first 6 months, 
if a fault occurs the business is allowed one opportunity to put things right. If the repair is 
unsuccessful the consumer can reject the car.
In this case, the fault with the car occurred within the first 30 days.  So Mr H could have  
rejected the car immediately if hed wished.  Or he could have chosen to accept a repair   
Ref: DRN72338472which is what he did. Following the repair the fault occurred  again. This suggests that the 
first repair wasnt  successful. At this point,  Mr H was entitled to reject the car. Mr H has said 
he wasnt aware of his rights until after the second repair  had been  completed.  
I think its likely that Mr H accepted the second  repair in ignorance  of his rights.  When  the 
fault occurred  a third time, Mr H didnt authorise  further repairs and asked to reject the car. 
The dealer  carried  out repairs anyway. Im of the view that Mr Hs request to reject  the car 
should have been accepted at this point.
Because the car has now been  successfully repaired, Im unable to recommend  a rejection. I 
appreciate that Mr H has experienced further issues with the car. Ive taken into account 
what hes said about this but Im not persuaded that these are point of supply faults.  The 
issues which Mr H has mentioned, such as worn brake pads and air filter, are parts which  I 
would expect to require replacement in any event.  So I think  these issues are due to wear  
and tear as opposed to inherent defects.
In relation to the ad blue cables, as well as the other issues Mr H is experiencing, Mr H was 
asked to provide  a report from the garage who serviced the car detailing  what  is wrong. Mr H 
hasnt provided  this and without any other evidence that there  are faults  with the car, Im 
unable to safely conclude  that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im unable to ask Motonovo to allow Mr H to reject the car. But I 
think Mr H should be compensated for the inconvenience hes suffered as a result  of the 
issues with the car. 
I can see that Mr H had to return the car to the dealership three  times  and that he was 
unable to drive it for around 4 weeks. 
Ive taken account of what  Mr H feels about the level of compensation. But Im not 
persuaded that it should be increased.  I appreciate  that Mr H suffered some inconvenience 
when he had to return the car to the garage  but he was provided with a courtesy car whilst 
his car was being  repaired. 
Taking everything into consideration I think compensation of £250  is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  FirstRand Bank Limited  must pay 
compensation of £250 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7233847