K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about the service she received from St Jamess Place Wealth  
Management Plc in relation to the transfer  of pension benefits from her defined salary 
pension scheme. She believes that delays caused by the business meant that the deadline 
for transfer  was missed, and the final transfer  value was over £85,000 less as a result. 
background
Mrs P met with an adviser in March 2017  and then engaged St Jamess Place (SJP) to 
provide advice on a transfer out of her final salary scheme on 23 March 2017. She had 
already obtained a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) dated 17 February  2017.  This 
was guaranteed up to 17 May 2017.  
SJP requested a pension  transfer analysis report from an external company.  This was 
completed on 22 May 2017,  and discussed with Mrs P at a meeting on 26 May 2017. 
The case  was then referred to the Business Assurance Unit (BAU) within  SJP.  This led to 
further information being requested from Mrs P on 28 June 2017. This information was 
provided and on 7 July 2017  SJP gave its advice and recommended  she did not proceed 
with the transfer.  
Mrs P subsequently obtained a further CETV from the ceding scheme, which  quoted a 
transfer value  more than £85,000  less than the quotation dated  17 February 2017. She 
approached another financial adviser  and the transfer was completed. 
Mrs P complained to SJP.  She said that she believed SJP were  responsible  for the reduction 
in the transfer  value  as they had told her they would  be able to complete the schemes 
requirements to transfer, including providing full advice, by the guarantee date. 
She also said that SJP had provided her with assurances that even  if the guarantee date 
was missed the CETV would not go down.  
SJP didnt agree. They  said they hadnt  provided  her with any assurances that the guarantee 
deadline would be met, and so couldnt be held responsible for the reduction in the transfer 
value. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service in January  2018.  An adjudicator considered  the 
complaint, and recommended that it wasnt upheld.  She said that she did not believe it was 
fair to hold SJP responsible for the reduction  in the transfer value because  Mrs P did not 
formally engage them to provide advice until 23 March 2017,  when over a third of the 
guarantee period had expired. She also said there was no evidence  SJP had provided 
assurances that they would meet the deadline,  or that the CETV  wouldnt  reduce after the 
guarantee expired. 
Mrs P didnt agree, and the case has therefore  come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  in order to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN77825602Mrs P initially approached SJP on day 26 of the 90 day guaranteed  period, however she did 
not instruct them to proceed with the advice process until day 34. Im not aware of any 
specific regulatory guidelines regarding timescales  for final salary  transfers, however  as 
pension schemes  generally  provide a three month guarantee, this would  seem  to be a 
reasonable starting point. 
So, on receipt of Mrs Ps instruction to proceed, SJP only had 56 days, or 8 weeks, to 
complete an extensive  advice  process.  On this point alone, I dont consider it fair to hold SJP 
responsible for the deadline  not being  met. Mrs P says that the ceding scheme had given an 
extension to the guarantee period of four weeks, and therefore believes that SJP should  
have been able to meet this. But when asked  by this service,  the ceding  scheme  has said 
that it has no record of any extension agreed on this case,  and that this was not something  it 
was likely to do anyway.  Without any written or corroborating  evidence, Im not satisfied an 
extension was, or would  have  been, granted. 
SJP say that Mrs P was given a 6-8 week  timescale  for the initial advice stage, which  
involved obtaining a transfer value report (TVAS) from an external company, and that they 
told Mrs P it was unlikely full advice would be provided before the deadline. Mrs P disputes 
this. 
Unfortunately, there doesnt appear to be any documented evidence  of the timescale  that 
was proposed. So apart from the recollections of the individuals involved, I dont have any 
evidence as to what was actually discussed in relation to this. SJP says that there are no 
telephone recordings. Ive not seen any documentary evidence  that there was any guarantee 
or assurance  given  that the process  would be completed by 17 May 2017. 
I also dont have any documentary evidence of more general  assurances given to Mrs P 
regarding meeting the guarantee deadline, or whether the CETV would stay the same  after 
the expiry date. Mrs P has provided  email correspondence between  SJP and a colleague as 
evidence of these  points. However,  I agree  with the adjudicator that Im unable to attach 
great weight  to these  in this complaint. Just because the adviser provided some reassurance  
to Mrs Ps colleague, doesnt mean  he definitely  provided the same reassurance to her, and 
its not fair to assume he did without evidence, which is simply not available. And even if 
some assurance was given, this doesnt  mean that the higher value would have  been  
secured. Any reassurance only impact on Mrs Ps expectations. 
In summary,  I must consider this case based on the evidence  available  to me, and based  on 
the evidence Ive seen, I am not satisfied  that SJP agreed it would complete the full advice  
process before the guaranteed date expired.  Its regrettable that the sequence  of events has 
led to a reduction in Mrs Ps final transfer value, but I dont  hold SJP directly responsible for 
this. 
Ultimately, SJP were instructed on 23 March 2017. The transfer value was only valid until 17 
May 2017. I think there was always a real risk that the transfer  would not be completed  in 
this timeframe, particularly where  the advice  was against the transfer.
I have noted that Mrs P did transfer after taking advice elsewhere. But the fact that a 
different adviser  reached a different conclusion on the transfer doesnt mean that SJPs 
advice was wrong. 
Ref: DRN77825603my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7782560