K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about Ageas Retail Limiteds (trading as RIAS) decision to cancel her 
home insurance policy.
background
RIAS automatically renewed Miss Ws home insurance policy in October 2018. As Miss W 
had opted to pay in monthly instalments by direct debit, RIAS told her the first payment  
would be due on 10 November 2018.  
Miss W made  a successful claim on the policy in early November 2018.
RIAS couldnt  collect the first payment  from Miss Ws bank account. It told her on 
13 November 2018 it would try again  in about  seven  to ten days time and she should  make 
sure she had enough funds in her account.  Miss W called RIAS on 17 November 2018 and 
asked if the direct debit  was still in place - RIAS  told her it was. She also offered to make  a 
payment over the phone.  RIAS said there  was no need, as it was due to re-present  the direct  
debit in a few days time. Miss W said thats  fine, Ill leave that as it is. RIAS attempts to 
collect the payment  on 20 November also failed.  It wrote to Miss W the next day and told her 
that unless she got in touch in seven days, it would cancel her policy. Miss W didnt contact 
RIAS in time, so it wrote to her on 3 December 2018  to say it had cancelled the policy.
RIAS told Miss W on 18 December 2018  that she owed  an outstanding balance  of over £400  
(the policy premium) which needed  to be paid within seven days,  or the matter  would be 
referred to a debt recovery agency. Miss W didnt make the payment,  so RIAS referred the 
matter on at the end of December 2018.
Miss W contacted RIAS in January 2019 to ask why shed received a letter  saying she owed  
over £400.  RIAS explained that as shed  made  a claim before it cancelled the policy,  she 
was liable to pay the full policy premium.  Miss W didnt think it was fair that she had to pay 
the full premium for something she hadnt  had the benefit of. And she again explained her 
attempts to make a payment in November.
RIAS responded  to her complaint later that month. It listed  all of its attempts to collect  
payments and the action it had taken since. It said it was satisfied it acted  correctly.  
Miss W complained to us in March 2019. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint 
and felt that RIAS  acted  reasonably. As Miss W wasnt happy with the investigators  
assessment, the matters  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W thinks it was unfair for RIAS to cancel her policy when shed  made attempts to pay. 
And she doesnt think it fair for RIAS  to pursue the full policy premium from her either. 
But having  thought about this carefully Im not going  to uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
A condition  of Miss Ws policy was that she would make monthly  payments  by direct debit as 
part of a credit agreement. Im satisfied RIAS made it clear that the first payment was due to 
Ref: DRN79087002be collected on 10 November and it gave her enough notice  about  that. Im also satisfied it 
didnt delay in telling  her when it couldnt  take the first payment as expected, whilst also 
setting out what  it intended to do next.  So, I think RIAS gave Miss W another opportunity  to 
make sure there were  enough funds in her account  before  it attempted  to collect the 
payment again.  Or to let RIAS know  if there  was a problem.
I accept Miss W did offer to make a payment over the phone on 17 November, but I dont  
agree with her that RIAS refused to take it from her. Ive listened to the call recording  and I 
can hear RIAS telling Miss W it was due to re-present the direct  debit for payment within  a 
few days, so there was no need  for her to pay over the phone.  Miss W said,  thats fine, Ill 
leave that as it is. I dont  think  thats the same  as RIAS refusing to take the payment. I think  
it was simply trying  to avoid the possibility of Miss W paying  twice. And I dont think  thats 
unreasonable. 
Miss W says shed  had problems with her bank account, which she thought RIAS was 
already aware  of. Ive seen no evidence to suggest shed previously told RIAS  about issues 
with her bank account. And, if Miss W knew there was potentially a problem, then I think  it 
was up to her to make that clear to RIAS or insist on making the payment over the phone.  
Ive seen no evidence  she did that. And, given her response during the 17 November call, I 
dont think RIAS had any reason  to think there  could  be a problem  when it tried to collect  
payment again  a few days later. 
After the second  payment attempt failed,  RIAS wrote to Miss W again on 21 November. 
It gave her seven days to get in touch, or risk her policy being cancelled. Thats something 
Miss Ws policy documents allow RIAS to do. I understand Miss W told RIAS  she didnt get 
this letter.  While thats clearly unfortunate, Im satisfied RIAS wrote to Miss W at the correct  
address. And I don't think it would  be fair to criticise RIAS for any problems with the postal 
system. In any event, I dont think its just a question of whether RIAS complied with the 
terms set out in the policy documents. It told Miss W as early  as October that her first 
payment was due in November. And it also discussed the payment issue  with her in 
November and what it intended to do next.  So, Im satisfied RIAS gave Miss W enough  
notice about when her payment was due and when and how it would try to take it. And, as 
Miss W knew that RIAS would be trying to take a payment from her account following her 
phone call on 17 November, I think the onus was on her to ensure that payment went  out, or 
to contact RIAS to pay by some other  means.  But Ive seen no evidence she did so. RIAS 
didn't receive payment and  in line with the information in her policy documents   cancelled  
the policy. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Miss W also thinks it unfair for RIAS  to charge her the full policy  premium when she hadnt 
had the benefit of the policy. But I think she did receive a benefit from the policy  because  
shed made  a successful  claim against it before it was cancelled. Miss W might  think  that 
because she only had the policy for a short time and she was due to pay for it in instalments, 
RIAS should only charge  her for her time on cover. Although an annual  premium may be 
paid in instalments,  each  instalment is essentially a contribution towards the cost of a single 
fee. And that fee is the premium for the insurer covering the risks set out in the policy.  
So, once an insurer has paid out on a policy the customer  has had the benefit  of it. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  its reasonable for the full policy  premium to be collected,  even  if 
its cancelled before its full term. For that reason, I dont  think it was unfair for RIAS  to 
pursue the outstanding policy premium from Miss W.
Finally, Miss W didn't  think  it was fair for RIAS to refer the outstanding premium to a debt 
collection agency. Ive looked at the terms of business agreement between Miss W and 
Ref: DRN79087003RIAS, which  say that if there is an unpaid balance from the policy  after its cancellation, RIAS 
may ask a debt collection agency to recover the outstanding amount on its behalf.  Ive also 
seen that RIAS wrote to Miss W on 18 December to tell her about the outstanding payment 
and to ask her to get in touch immediately.  It said if she didnt make payment  within seven 
days, it would consider  referring the matter on. So, I don't think  RIAS  acted unfairly  in 
referring the matter  to a debt collection agency,  as it had told Miss W that may happen. 
For all of the reasons  Ive outlined, I dont think RIAS did anything  wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December  2020.
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7908700