K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that after a county  court judgement  (CCJ) Equifax Limited (Equifax)  
recorded in error was removed from his credit file, his credit score wasnt  restored to what it 
had been previously. He thinks his ability to get future credit has been affected as a result.  
background
In March 2017 Mr P noticed his credit score  with Equifax had dropped significantly. He 
wasnt aware of a reason for this and found  out that a CCJ had been  registered against him. 
Upon further investigation Mr P discovered  the CCJ shouldnt  have applied to him and after 
some time he was able to prove this to the lender and Equifax  who removed the CCJ from 
his file. A notice of correction was also added to explain  what  had happened. 
But Mr P found that his credit score didnt improve by the amount it had previously dropped,  
so he complained to Equifax. Mr P said that  following  the removal of the CCJ  his credit 
score should  have reverted to what  it had been  previously.   He said this was causing him 
problems in securing a mortgage offer and other credit alternatives.
In its response Equifax  didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint and explained how his credit  score 
worked and the information thats  provided  which can affect  it. But it also said that his 
Equifax credit score wasnt  provided  to any lenders  and they would have their own lending  
criteria and decision making processes when considering  whether or not to lend. 
Mr P said that because Equifax used phrases like we cannot manually override the system 
he continued to believe he was at a financial disadvantage. So he brought his complaint to 
us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said Mr Ps credit score was constantly changing depending on information Equifax 
received from other organisations. He said Equifax wasnt able to manually change  a credit 
score but in any case this wasnt  a score that was available  to lenders who would  have their 
own criteria when making decisions  on whether or not to lend.
Mr P didnt agree. He said it wasnt fair that the CCJ was still impacting his finances and he 
wasnt satisfied that Equifax  had properly explained why it couldnt manually correct  his 
credit score. He asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed  
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the CCJ was incorrectly recorded,  as its been confirmed its 
now been removed  from Mr Ps credit file. What Mr P is complaining about is the impact the 
wrongly recorded CCJ is still having  on his Equifax credit  score  and the impact this is 
having on his ability to get credit. And I have some  sympathy with Mr P as clearly  he hasnt 
seen his internal  Equifax  credit score returned to what it was before the CCJ was recorded. 
But I dont think Equifax has made any errors  here  which I know will disappoint Mr P, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN77105942Equifax receives  information from credit providers which is what  it relies  on. If any 
amendments are needed they need  to come  from the information providers although notes 
can be added to the credit file when there  is data that is in dispute. And thats what 
happened here when Mr P was able to demonstrate that the CCJ had been  recorded 
incorrectly and Equifax removed it from his file. So I cant say Equifax has done anything  
wrong there  as it wasnt responsible for the CCJ and removed it when it was proven to be 
incorrect.
Equifax has explained how it makes  an individual assessment and calculates its own credit 
score for a consumer. In Mr Ps case this is based on a number of criteria about  his finances 
and how he manages  them.  Equifax  also explained that within  this calculation its algorithm 
may change  the weight  it attaches to certain  criteria, such  as the credit ratio which may 
cause a different  score  to be generated. So although Mr P says his score  dropped  because  
of the CCJ  as I havent seen copies of full credit reports  for Mr P from when the issue  with 
the CCJ was resolved,  I cannot say whether this was the only change that happened at that 
time. Credit scores  will move based on a number of factors. So I cant safely say adding and 
removing the CCJ was the sole reason for any change in credit score and I dont think  
Equifax has made any errors over that matter.
Mr P says Equifax hasnt  really explained  why his credit score  didnt return to its previous  
level as soon as the CCJ was removed.  He says any issues  Equifax has with a complex 
algorithm shouldnt  be at his cost.  And, while I can understand why Mr P is upset  with the 
issue around his credit  score, Im satisfied  Equifax  has explained how it calculates its scores 
and why they can change.  I havent  seen anything  to suggest its made a mistake  in Mr Ps 
case and for these reasons, I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
Ive also seen Mr P says the change in his credit  score  continues  to affect him financially 
especially with regards  to mortgage borrowing. But lenders dont see these scores - and its 
because of this they should be seen as an indication of how a potential  lender may view their 
credit rating rather than a formal assessment. 
Instead lenders  rely on their own criteria to decide  whether or not to lend. So while I 
understand Mr Ps concerns I hope he feels reassured that this shouldnt  have any impact  on 
his ability  to obtain credit. If Mr P believes hes been  offered higher interest rates  than he 
should have been offered - during a credit  application with a specific  lender, then he should 
ask the lender involved to give him an explanation of why that may have happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7710594