K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of an enquiry she made 
under her private medical insurance policy.
background
Mrs R had held the policy for many  years. She suffered  from a nerve condition and from high 
cholesterol. She found that the recommended  medication for her high cholesterol made her 
nerve condition  worse and as a result she didnt take this but instead managed her high 
cholesterol through her diet. She decided she should speak to a consultant to see whether 
alternative medication might be available.
She rang BUPA to ask for the contact details of a suitable consultant. BUPAs adviser 
explained that chronic conditions were normally excluded from cover under the policy.  She 
asked Mrs R for a copy of her GPs referral letter so that she could check  whether a 
consultation would be eligible for cover.
Mrs R was upset at BUPAs handling  of her enquiry. She refused to provide any further 
information to demonstrate the eligibility  of the claim. She cancelled her policy and 
complained.
BUPA didnt  uphold  her complaint. It was satisfied that its adviser had acted appropriately. 
Mrs R therefore referred  her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, it was 
reasonable for BUPA to ask for further  information  to confirm the eligibility of the claim.
Mrs R didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said she hadnt been seeking  cover under 
the policy but had simply  been seeking  a list of consultants. She said the suggestion  that she 
should speak  to a consultant about her high cholesterol medication had been  made  not by 
her GP but by her daughter who was a doctor.  She said BUPA  had provided cover  ten years  
earlier when  her nerve problem was first diagnosed. She thought it should have been more  
helpful when she made her request  for details of a suitable consultant.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic  conditions. By this, we mean a disease, illness or 
injury which  has at least one of the following  characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
Ref: DRN75553552it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment of 
acute symptoms of a chronic  condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment is 
likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being  restored  fully to your previous 
state of health,  without  you having to receive prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for 
treatment following a heart attack  arising  out of chronic heart disease. This exception  does 
not apply to treatment  of a mental  health  condition.
When Mrs R rang BUPA,  she implied  that her GP had advised her it was necessary to see a 
consultant about medication for her high cholesterol, bearing in mind  the complicating  factor  
of her nerve condition. Im satisfied that, on the face of it, both the high cholesterol and the 
nerve condition  met the policys definition of a chronic condition  (Mrs M had told BUPAs  
adviser that the nerve condition was hereditary and untreatable). I therefore think it was 
reasonable for the adviser  to warn Mrs R that any treatment might not be covered and to 
seek further information, starting with the GPs referral letter,  to check eligibility. Mrs R may 
have been upset about this but I cant reasonably conclude the adviser  did anything wrong.
Mrs R has mentioned that BUPA provided  cover when the nerve condition was first 
diagnosed ten years earlier. It might be that BUPA did provide cover  at that time while 
doctors were  trying to establish the cause of Mrs Rs symptoms. However, that doesnt  mean  
that it is obliged  to provide cover even after the condition  has been identified  as chronic. 
Since bringing her complaint to us, Mrs R has said that when she rang BUPA  she wasnt  
seeking cover under  the policy but had simply wanted details of a relevant  consultant  whom 
she could contact for advice on her condition. However, having  listened to a recording of the 
telephone call Im satisfied that she led the adviser to understand she had been referred by 
her GP and wanted  BUPA to provide cover for a consultation. Indeed, she made repeated 
comments to the effect that if BUPA wouldnt provide cover,  she would cancel the policy.
Even if Mrs R had made clear  that she wasnt seeking cover  but simply wanted  a list of 
consultants whom she could approach and pay directly, I dont think BUPA was obliged to 
provide such a list. BUPA is a private  health insurer and its advisers are there to help 
members with their claims under the insurance policy. If Mrs Rs treatment isnt eligible  
under the policy,  BUPA  isnt required to provide  assistance. So I would  still have expected 
BUPAs adviser to first of all establish the eligibility  of the planned  treatment.
I recognise that Mrs R has had previous issues with the poor service  provided by BUPA.  She 
has made complaints  which BUPA has upheld. However, as the adjudicator has explained, 
Mrs R didnt refer those  complaints to us within six months of the final response  letters  
issued by BUPA and so it is now too late for her to raise those matters with us. I am 
therefore just considering  BUPAs actions in respect  of her enquiry about  her cholesterol 
medication. For the reasons Ive explained, I cant reasonably conclude  that BUPA did 
anything wrong  in this respect. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN75553553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7555355