K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2007. Mr M says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him the PPI. Ill refer to the business as 
Black Horse in my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although Mr M has said he was told that he had to take out PPI to be approved  for 
the credit, Ive not seen  evidence to support what hes said.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms hire purchase  agreement. The amount of borrowing is 
outlined and to the right of these details it states;  Cash Price of Optional Payment 
Protection Plan. No price  for PPI was entered and Mr M has signed the credit 
agreement without taking  PPI. 
To be clear, this wasnt a credit application,  Mr M signed the agreement to confirm he 
agreed to the credit.  The agreement hasnt  been dated, but the system information at 
the top of the agreement indicates  that it was produced or printed on 26 March  2007 
at 15.52. This disputes what Mr M has said about  being told that he had to take PPI 
because he had a limited credit history.
It seems  that PPI was then added at some  point afterwards.  Black Horse has said 
that the sale of PPI took place during a telephone call. Mr M disputes that a call took 
place. 
In my opinion, the most likely explanations  are: 
- that a call did take place,  or 
- PPI was added without  Mr Ms knowledge. 
In my opinion, as Mr M hasnt complained that the PPI was added without his 
knowledge  hes said; The sales man didnt really  give me any choice. It was take 
PPI and be accepted or dont and be rejected, it seems more  likely than not that a 
telephone call did take place at some  point between 16 March 2007  and 
30 March 2007  when the first payment for PPI was taken. I say this because  it seems 
less likely that a separate  meeting took place just to discuss PPI after the hire 
purchase agreement  had been signed. To be clear, Im not dismissing  what Mr M has 
said about his recollections of the sale, my findings are based  on what  I think  is 
more likely than not to have happened   based  on all of the evidence.  
No call recording is now available of any call that took place, but Ive considered what  
we know more widely about how Black Horse sold PPI alongside a sales  script that 
Black Horse  say their adviser would have followed. I think  its more likely than not 
Ref: DRN71601652that the sales script was followed and Mr M was made aware that PPI was optional  
before he agreed  to take it out.
Black  Horse recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong,  
particularly as it could  have paid out for up to the term of the hire purchase 
agreement for a successful accident or sickness claim. Mr M has said he was entitled  
to 4 months full sick pay and had some savings, but the PPI policy could have  paid 
out for longer than Mr Ms existing  means would have lasted.  
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because : 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont award  
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7160165