K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms D have  complained about the way Fairmead Insurance  Limited (trading as Legal  
& General Insurance Limited who I will refer to as L&G) have handled  their claim for 
damage caused by an escape of water in their attic.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, on 16 October 2020, and said I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. This is what I said in my provisional  decision:
background
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint whove acted  on 
behalf of Fairmead  Insurance Limited  (previously trading  as L&G). For ease of 
reference, Ill refer to L&G by name in this decision,  even  when  referring to the 
actions of its agents. 
On 4 March 2018,  Mr D contacted L&G to report an escape of water at his property. 
Mr and Ms D were  in Australia at that time, but appointed Mr B as their 
representative, from then until their return to the United Kingdom, two weeks later.
In April 2018, Mr D raised  a complaint with L&G about how theyd handled his claim 
up to that point in time. He said he was disappointed  with the progress that had been 
made with the claim, and he felt there was a lack of ownership and effective 
communication in moving things forward. He was also unhappy about the problems 
theyd encountered with their alternative accommodation and expressed concern 
about their contents  being damaged and the electrics not being  properly tested.
L&G sent their final response to Mr D on 10 May 2018. In that response they 
accepted the service  hed been given had fallen short of their standards.  L&G agreed 
that more should have  been done to give Mr D consistent and effective updates and 
said theyd arranged for more frequent contact  going forward. They agreed that their 
alternative accommodation arrangements could have been  managed  more  effectively 
and noted that a longer  term let had now been  arranged, for a property that met their 
needs. L&G agreed that more should  have been  done to progress the drying out of 
the property, and in relation to storing Mr and Ms Ds contents.  They  confirmed that a 
site visit did take place which resulted in an assessment of the damage that was 
significantly greater than previously indicated, and as a result Mr D had appointed a 
loss assessor to represent  them  in their claim. L&G offered Mr D £250  in 
compensation for the service  failings theyd identified.
On 20 October 2018, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He provided a 
detailed chronology of how the claim had been handled over the last seven months 
and explained  the impact  L&Gs claim handling had had on them.
On 13 November 2018, Mr D again complained to L&G about  the way their claim was 
being handled, and in particular about  the continued lengthy delays at every  step in 
the process. He pointed out that their contents had finally  been  moved  into storage 
12 weeks after the escape of water occurred,  enabling the strip-out to start so the 
drying process could  commence on 29 May 2018.  The house was declared dry on 3rd 
July, four months after the escape of water had occurred,  (although  it wasnt properly 
Ref: DRN71474202dried out until the end of October).  A schedule of works was completed by 31 July 
and put out to tender.
Mr D also highlighted that during the early stages of their claim, one of L&Gs 
contractors had suggested it would take 8-10 weeks to complete the drying  process 
and carry out the repairs,  so theyd hoped to be back in their home  by October  2018.  
However, by mid-November they were still waiting for L&G to give approval  for the 
repairs to start, so it looked  like they were unlikely to be back in their home before 
February 2019, almost  a year after the escape  of water happened.  He said that L&G 
were showing no urgency at all and are seemingly disinterested in the stresses  and 
upset caused  by their plight.
On 6 December  2018, L&G sent Mr and Ms D a response to their further complaint 
and accepted there had been  further minor  delays  in the progressing  of the claim. 
But they also said that there  had been other delays outside of their control where 
their loss adjuster  had been waiting for further information from Mr and Ms Ds loss 
assessor. They agreed to pay a further  £200  compensation,  by way of apology. 
On 17 May 2019 our investigator issued her view on the complaint.  In summary, she 
concluded that there were a number of delays caused by L&G in their handling of the 
claim, specifically in relation to moving  Mr and Ms Ds contents into storage and 
starting the drying  process, which ought  to be compensated  for. But she felt that the 
£450 offered by L&G was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She was also 
under the impression that L&G had agreed to pay the costs incurred by Mr and Ms D 
in relation to instructing a loss assessor,  and said she felt that was fair given the 
delays that had been caused by L&G.
Mr and Ms D accepted the view and said they were happy that L&G had offered to 
cover their loss assessors expenses.  They said they were  still waiting  for L&G to 
agree the final settlement figure for the contents  lost or damaged  by water and to 
advise them about whether they would be reimbursed for any of the additional  living 
expenses they incurred while living in the temporary accommodation. 
L&G didnt accept  our investigators view. They said that they hadnt agreed to cover 
the cost of Mr and Ms Ds loss assessor. They explained that they never  agree to pay 
those companys costs  unless there  are exceptional circumstances, for example 
where the customer is severely  disabled or ill. 
A second view was issued by our investigator on 11 June 2019, explaining that there 
had been some confusion about L&G paying the loss assessors fees. She clarified 
that she felt that L&Gs  offer of £450 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of their complaint. 
Mr and Ms D didnt  accept the second view; they thought L&G should  pay at least  
some of the loss assessors costs, as it was the delays caused  by L&G that led them  
to appoint a loss assessor in the first place. They said that if their claim had been 
handled properly,  promptly and efficiently by L&G from the outset,  they would not 
have needed to seek assistance and guidance  from professional loss assessors and 
incur the additional expense. They also said the total loss assessor fees will be in the 
region of £1,650 plus VAT,  and, given the level of fees, which  were  significantly less 
than 10% of the value of the claim,  they hoped the ombudsman might still require 
L&G to meet the fees in line with our investigators original view.
Ref: DRN71474203Mr and Ms D added, in July 2019, that theyd passed further information to L&G on 
18 April 2019, of additional living costs they incurred while  living in the temporary 
accommodation and prices for an A3 photographic printer which  was found to be not 
working after being returned from storage and were  still awaiting confirmation as to 
whether those costs  would be paid as part of the claim.
As our investigators view wasnt accepted, the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The parties agree that an escape of water occurred at Mr and Ms Ds property, 
causing damage that was covered by their insurance policy.  Mr and Ms D have 
confirmed that, aside from the question of compensation that Im considering  in this 
provisional decision, their claim has now been settled in full. So, this decision will 
focus on whether  compensation  is payable,  and what amount of compensation is 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its not in dispute  that the way that L&G have settled  the claim, has caused Mr and 
Ms D distress, inconvenience and upset, which they should be compensated for. The 
issue that remains for me to decide is whether L&Gs  offer of £450  is adequate to 
make up for the stress and inconvenience Mr and Ms D have suffered as a result of 
the way their claim has been settled. In coming to my provisional  decision on this 
point, I will also address  whether that compensation should include covering the 
costs Mr and Ms D incurred in appointing a loss assessor to assist them to progress 
the claim.
Its agreed that there were a number  of avoidable  delays caused  by L&Gs  handling 
of various elements of Mr and Ms Ds claim. As L&G is ultimately  responsible for 
settling the claim, when  referring to L&G, I will also be including their agents and 
contractors. In considering whether compensation should be paid to address the 
impact of L&Gs actions  and inaction,  Ive thought  about whether the delays were  
avoidable or within L&Gs control. Having  done so, Im currently  of the view that the 
offer of £450 is not sufficient to compensate Mr and Ms D for the impact L&Gs 
handing of their claim has had on them. I will explain why Im currently  minded  to 
decide that compensation should  be significantly increased, by setting out the impact 
L&Gs actions have  had on Mr and Ms D, under the following headings: deterioration  
to the property and contents due to delays in drying  the property; alternative 
accommodation; communication; stress  and physical impact; and loss assessor.
Deterioration to the property and contents due to delays in drying the property
Throughout the first part of the period of Mr and Ms Ds claim, they repeatedly  
contacted L&G to ask why steps werent  being taken to dry out the property following 
the escape of water.  
Ref: DRN71474204The loss adjuster estimated, in his March  2018  report, that the drying  should  take 
between two to three  weeks.  He recommended  that, as the entire house was wet, 
drying equipment  be installed on both floors  of the house and in all of the rooms.  
L&Gs case  notes show that on 23 March 2018, the case handler was reminded to 
check that the drying had now been  completed. However, the drying wasnt 
completed until 31 October 2018, more than ten months later.  
Mr D contacted L&G on 29 March  2018  to say there  was mould forming on floors, 
walls and ceilings. On 5 April 2018, due to the large amounts of mould growing in the 
property L&G told their contractor on 5 April 2018  to install  drying equipment. 
However, that contractor  was waiting for the electrics to be checked by another 
contractor, and for the property to be stripped out by another  contractor, and the 
furniture and contents to be put into storage by another contractor.
On 10 April 2018, L&G told the contractor to start drying the property and not to wait 
for the strip-out to be completed. However,  L&G said that the furniture and contents 
did first need to be put into storage,  which didnt  happen for a further  45 days. 
Throughout this time,  the property remained wet.
On 10 May 2018, a new drying contractor was appointed. They installed one dryer in 
the property on 29 May 2018 and said the house  was dry on 3 July 2018.  Mr D took 
his own damp readings on 20 July 2018  which demonstrated that the property was 
still very damp. Two weeks later he sent photos  to the drying  contractor of new mould 
growing in the breeze blocks of their dining room.  The surveyor returned to the 
property on 23 August 2018 and Mr D says he expressed concerned  at how much  
the house had deteriorated  since 24 April 2018. L&Gs business file records that by 
31 October 2018 the drying had been completed. 
The evidence on the case file supports Mr Ds argument that L&Gs  delays in drying  
the property, significantly  contributed to the deterioration of the property and their 
contents. Mr D has also emphasised how distressing it was for Ms D and him to 
watch the house that theyd spent years restoring,  deteriorate  with every passing  
week, and more of their possessions being damaged by mould because they were 
being left in a damp  environment for so long.
L&Gs first (of three) loss adjuster visited the property on 16 March 2018 to make an 
initial assessment  of the claim. He recorded  that the ceilings were cracked, and most 
of the walls had water stains or were saturated. He also noted that the floors in the 
upstairs ensuite and bathroom, hallway, stairs and dining room  were saturated, but 
the lounge floors didnt appear  to be saturated. 
With regard to damaged  contents he noted that the carpets in the first bedroom, 
upstairs landing,  master bedroom and staircase  had been  removed.  He also reported  
that a double mattress,  two double quilts, one mattress protector, ten towels, one 
camera, one iPad,  one desk chair and one laptop needed to be replaced. 
When L&Gs  second loss adjuster attended  the property a month  later on 16 April 
2018, she said there was a lot more damage  than originally anticipated and strip-out 
works would be required.  Then, after the third loss adjusters visit, on 23 April 2018, 
the amount reserved  to cover damage  to the contents was increased  from 
approximately £3,500 to £10,000.
Ref: DRN71474205By the time the tender  analysis was completed, six and a half months later, the 
property and had deteriorated to such an extent  that repair works totally  
approximately £70,000 were required, to replace  the ceilings, walls, joists and 
flooring throughout much  of the property; ceiling lights in the stairs, hall, dining room 
and kitchen; and the kitchen needed to be completely replaced. 
Mr and Ms D raised concerns about  the contents  and furniture in the house  from the 
outset of making their claim. On 21 March  2018, they were told the contents  would  
have to stay in the wet house  until the loss adjuster has visited  and assessed them 
on 16 April 2018. On 29 March 2018, Mr D reported there was a new issue  with 
mould forming on floors walls and ceilings and again asked that the contents be 
moved into storage  to prevent  further  losses. On 6 April 2018, Mr D again raised his 
concerns about  the contents  being  destroyed with L&G and was told that theyd be 
removed on 26 April 2018 when  the strip-out started. Finally,  on 25 May 2018, and 
26 May 2018, (two months after the escape  of water happened), their contents were 
assessed and those that werent beyond economic repair were  finally  moved to 
storage. On 26 November  2018, Mr and Ms D said they were still awaiting the final 
priced list of contents  that had been deemed  beyond economic repair, for their 
validation and to allow them to negotiate a settlement  with L&G.  The loss assessors 
records show that in August  2019,  Mr and Ms D were still awaiting the settlement 
regarding their contents to be finalised, nearly 18 months after the escape  of water 
occurred. 
So, taking all of this into account, Im intending  to conclude that the delays caused by 
L&G in drying  out the property, have had a significant impact  on Mr and Ms D, 
causing them substantial  distress and upset as they watched their home and 
belongings significantly deteriorate over a period of more than seven months,  further 
evidenced by the large  increases in reserve amounts held by L&G to settle the claim.  
I also think Mr and Ms D did all they could by bringing the appearance of mould, and 
lack of progress  in drying the property, to L&Gs attention at various intervals 
throughout the claim period. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Ms D have  also said that the way their alternative accommodation  was 
managed by L&G caused them a lot of stress and worry and had a detrimental 
impact on their mental health. So, Ive next considered  the management of their 
alternative accommodation during the period of the claim.
In March 2018, following his initial visit to the property, the loss adjuster reported that 
once the electrics had been checked  and the pipe in the attic was fixed,  Mr and Ms D 
could move back into their home  as the master bedroom had suffered very little 
damage. 
On 28 March 2018, one day before their hotel  booking  was due to end, L&G 
confirmed that Mr and Ms Ds stay had been  extended, so they wouldnt be made 
homeless, as they had feared. There were also several other occasions throughout 
the period of the claim,  where Mr and Ms D were given last minute  confirmation  of 
their accommodation  arrangements, which they say created  a lot of worry and stress  
for them.
Ref: DRN71474206Then, on 4 April 2018, despite the property being uninhabitable, L&G informed Mr 
and Ms D that the electrics appeared to be back up and running and drying 
equipment had been installed so they wouldnt be covering any further alternative 
accommodation costs  as Mr and Ms D could  then move back into the property. Later  
in the day, this was confirmed to be incorrect and their alternative accommodation 
was extended  for another 12 days. However,  in the meantime it had caused Mr and 
Ms D to feel stressed about  their living arrangements.
On 9 April 2018,  Mr D informed L&G that they needed to be housed  appropriately. 
He said the one room arrangement in the hotel didnt work  as he was on call at night 
and had early starts with his work, which  disrupted his wife and her work. However, it 
wasnt until 5 May 2018, that they were  able to move into rental  accommodation, that 
they had located and arranged the viewing for, themselves, after being frustrated at 
properties theyd  selected, being  let while waiting for the appropriate paperwork to be 
completed by L&G.
In June 2018, Mr D was told that the rent hadnt  been paid,  so had to chase L&G to 
make sure the rent was paid to the landlord.  The following month, in July 2018, Mr 
and Ms D were told that the cattery fees hadnt  been paid for months, so there was 
£1107 outstanding that needed to be paid. They were also informed by the cattery 
that they could  no longer accommodate their family  cat. As Mr and Ms D were in 
rental accommodation that wouldnt  allow pets,  they had to re-home  their cat; another 
factor which added to the upset and stress they were suffering as their claim slowly 
progressed.
From 19 September  2018, Mr D had to chase L&G for confirmation that the lease on 
their property would be renewed, as the company was looking to remarket the 
property. On 3 October 2018, the lease  was renewed for a further four months.  The 
loss assessor had requested six months,  but L&G agreed to four months.  In January 
2019, the loss assessor emailed L&G to say that the building repairs  had now 
commenced, and he believed the current alternative  accommodation  agreement  ran 
until the beginning of March 2019, and if so, that would probably only need to be 
extended by one month, which was confirmed by L&G.
I accept that the length of time it would take to settle the claim, wasnt always  evident 
to L&G,  resulting in a need to renew the agreements  for alternative  accommodation,  
for a further period.  However, Im currently persuaded that the way L&G managed  
this part of Mr and Ms Ds claim caused them additional stress and upset. They were 
only informed of extensions to their accommodation  within days of the agreements 
expiring, and although their loss assessor requested  a longer term of occupation  for 
them, L&G only agreed to short  let periods, leading to additional anxiety for Mr and 
Ms D, about  where they would live, as those short-term arrangements  approached 
their end. 
Poor communication 
Mr and Ms D have  also complained about  the poor communication  between  L&G and 
their contractors which added to their frustration  and stress during the period of the 
claim. On 21 March 2018, Mr D asked  L&G to ensure that all of their contractors had 
their mobile numbers, because the contractors were phoning the landline  at the 
property, when nobody  was there  to take the call, leading to further delays in 
progressing matters. Again, on 3 April 2018, Mr D made  the same  request, and then 
Ref: DRN71474207in May 2018,  one of the contractors again gave their landline,  rather than mobile 
numbers to the company who were instructed to move their furniture and belongings 
into storage, leading to further avoidable delays. Mr Ds also reported a number  of 
occasions on which he was promised a call on a certain day at a certain time, that 
hed arranged to be available  for, but which didnt happen, meaning hed had to 
follow up on the same issues again.  
L&G have pointed to a couple of delays they say were  caused by Mr and Ms Ds loss 
assessor not providing them  with information in a timely manner. First,  they say that 
an explanation  of a payment of £5,000 wasnt provided within a reasonable time 
frame. However, as that payment  was agreed to by one of their loss adjusters, I think 
it would  have been reasonable for L&G to get the information from the loss adjuster 
rather than waiting for Mr and Ms D to provide the clarification.
L&G also said that the loss assessor was slow to provide an explanation of the 
additional strip-out works carried out by the contractor, without prior authorisation 
from L&G. However, I dont think this significantly impacted on the progress of the 
claim, rather,  it impacted on the timing of one of the invoices being paid.
Stress and physical impact
In their evidence, Mr and Ms D have explained how the way L&G have handled their 
claim, has impacted  on their mental  and physical health. On 13 April 2018,  Ms D 
went to hospital  with chest  pains,  which were confirmed to be due to stress caused 
by the situation of their home.
On 8 May 2018,  Mr D informed L&G that the stresses they were under because  of 
the delays and constantly having to chase every  step of the claims process were 
becoming intolerable.
The loss assessors  file also included several  references to the impact of the 
management of the claim  on Mr and Ms Ds health. 
On 3 October 2018, he emailed the loss adjuster to say that it was imperative that 
the property reinstatement works are approved urgently  so the contactors can be 
instructed. He added that hed met with Mr and Mrs D at the house on Monday and 
clearly the problems and delays  experienced to date are having  an accumulative 
effect and starting  to impact upon  their health.
9 October 2018, the loss assessor emailed the loss adjuster to say, I think it would 
be helpful in any event for you to meeting Mr and Mrs D when I am sure the impact 
this is having upon their wellbeing  will be all too obvious.
Then in November 2018, the loss assessor emailed Mr and Ms D to say that the loss 
adjuster: personally recognises I think the difficulties and stresses you have faced 
over a long period and understands that the priority must be to start putting  your 
house back together.
I think its clear  that the way L&G handled Mr and Ms Ds claim caused  them  stress, 
upset and ill-health,  which was significant enough  to be visible to, and commented  
on, by third parties.  
Ref: DRN71474208loss assessor
Mr and Ms D appointed their loss assessor on 15 April 2018. They say they felt they 
had no option  but to do this due to the stress  they were suffering from: frustrations 
with hotel stays  being  extended  at the last minute; trying to find a rental property 
before it was let to others;  getting the electrics  checked and the drying company to 
start drying  property or move their contents to storage; being  promised  calls that 
didnt eventuate; overall  lack of progress;  mould forming  on the walls; and their 
belongings staying  in a damp  property.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Ms Ds policy dont provide for costs  incurred  in 
relation to appointing a loss assessor, to be covered. And where  consumers have 
decided to appoint  a loss assessor  to help them with their claim, it would only be in 
very limited circumstances that we might direct  an insurer to pay those costs. So, I 
havent taken  those costs into account, in arriving at my decision to increase the 
amount of compensation L&G should pay Mr and Ms D. However, I have taken 
account of the distressing events and delays that Mr and Ms D have said led them to 
appoint a loss assessor,  and its that distress and inconvenience I think they should  
be compensated for. 
compensation for upset and inconvenience
I accept that a certain level of stress and disruption is to be expected,  when ones 
property has been damaged by an insured event and is in the process of being 
repaired. But its my current view that the accumulated  impact  of all of the delays, 
poor communication, and mishandling of their insurance claim, which  Ive detailed in 
the paragraphs above, has been  significant for Mr and Ms D.
Theyve watched their home deteriorate, and their belongings become mouldy and 
damaged month by month. They lived in one hotel room for nearly two months, until 
they found a rental property to move  into, and then found themselves in a position  
where they had to rehome their family pet. Throughout their claim, L&G provided 
reassurances and promises that created reasonable expectations  on the part of Mr 
and Ms D, that things  would improve and get back on track  with their claim, but L&G 
didnt co-ordinate their contractors or approve costs in a timely manner. If the drying 
process had begun promptly and the contents  moved to storage  more efficiently; if 
L&G had agreed  to a surveyor sooner; and the tender summary had been approved 
more quickly, then allowing a further eight weeks for the works to be completed,  I 
would have thought the repairs  could have been  completed by the end of August 
2018, at the latest. However, Mr and Ms D were only able to move  back  into their 
home in February  2019 a further six months later. 
I concluded that, taking all of the above into consideration,  I wasnt  persuaded the £450 
award recommended by our investigator goes far enough. To compensate Mr and Ms D for 
the upset and inconvenience theyve  been caused by the way their claim has been handled, 
I said I was intending  to increase the compensation payable by L&G to £1500,  for the impact 
their actions have had on Mr and Ms D.
I asked Mr and Ms D, and L&G, to let me have any final comments  or evidence  theyd  like 
me to consider, by 16 November 2020.
Ref: DRN71474209Mr and Ms D responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.  Despite our 
investigator following  up with L&G on 29 October  2020, and 13 November 2020, they 
havent provided any further comments  for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, and this final decision, I uphold this complaint and require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £1,500 to compensate  them for the 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered as a result  of the way Fairmead Insurance 
Limited has dealt with their claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to 
pay the award Ive detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 December  2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7147420