K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold to Mr and Mrs B in 1997,  in connection with a joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs B if they couldnt work  because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation,  did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs B the information  they needed to decide whether  to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they dont remember PPI being  mentioned when they arranged their 
mortgage, and that its not something they wouldve agreed to buy. Ive noted  everything Mr 
and Mrs B have said. Im also mindful that its over twenty years since the policy  was sold,  
and that exact  recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation  from the time the policy was sold. Thats  not 
surprising given the time thats passed,  and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage account if they hadnt agreed  to it. I think its possible that they may have forgotten 
about the sale. So without anything else to support  what Mr and Mrs B have told me, I 
havent been able to safely  conclude  that Lloyds didnt make  them  aware that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN70742552Lloyds accepts that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy  and it doesnt  
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
-Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.  
-Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled  to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt  
work due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr 
and Mrs Bs employer sick pay, and wouldve  meant  they could use those benefits to 
pay for other expenses  if they couldnt  work. So overall  I think  Mr and Mrs B would have 
had some  use for the policy  despite their existing  arrangements.
-Mr and Mrs B werent affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main 
benefits, such  as those affecting self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions.  As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think 
it unlikely Mr and Mrs B needed  better advice or information  about the policys  
exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the policys  cost was made clear  to Mr and Mrs B before they agreed 
to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable benefit. So I 
think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better  information  
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs B werent  affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I think  it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs B would have made a different decision  if better information  had been provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7074255