K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) deducted  a £200 
referral fee from his pet insurance claim.
background
Mr S claimed on his annual policy for his cats veterinary treatment. RSA paid his claim but 
deducted £200 from the settlement as the cat had been referred to a vet that wasnt part of 
its approved network.  It said this was in line with the terms  and conditions  of the policy  since  
his renewal in 2016.  
Mr S didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He said hed been  referred  to 
a different vet before for another pet and not had any money deducted. He said he hadnt 
been sent a copy of the updated terms and conditions and hed called RSA for his policy  
number and it hadnt mentioned the deduction. He also said the deduction shouldnt  have  
been made because the appointment was an emergency. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but thought  RSA had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt  think the appointment was an emergency  as   
Mr Ss cat hadnt needed immediate treatment, although his cat sadly died a couple  of 
weeks later.  
Mr S didnt agree. He said he hadnt  signed  for the updated terms and conditions  so didnt 
think RSA should  be able to apply them. 
RSA provided a screenshot to show it had sent the renewal  documents as well as a copy of 
the call where Mr S asked  for his policy number. Our investigator  thought  this showed RSA 
had sent the renewal documents.  He also thought it was reasonable RSA didnt mention the 
referral fee in the call. 
Mr S said he should have had to sign to say hed received  the new policy  in order for the 
new conditions to apply.  And he said hed previously  been referred to a different vet and not 
had to pay a referral fee. So he thought the same should apply this time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss policy say if his pet needs to be treated by a referral vet 
he can look for one from RSAs preferred referral network. It says if he chooses a vet from 
outside its network hell need to pay £200 of the referral bill himself,  in addition  to the policy  
excess, unless  its for emergency treatment. RSA said it took the decision to do this in order  
to keep its premiums affordable after increased veterinary claims costs from its customers. 
This doesnt seem to be an unreasonable decision, so Ive looked to see if RSA made the 
change to the policy clear to Mr S.  
Ive seen a copy  of RSAs renewal  document from 2016. While  this isnt specifically 
addressed to Mr S, RSAs  provided  a screenshot to show this was sent. Theres  also no 
record of the letter  being returned  to RSA as undelivered. I appreciate  Mr S feels  he should 
Ref: DRN79295302have needed to sign to say hed received  the letter. But its not usual for insurers to send 
renewals by signed for postage. And I dont think RSA did anything  wrong  in sending the 
renewal in the way it did. I appreciate Mr S doesnt  recall receiving the renewal document  
that detailed the changes, but I dont hold RSA responsible for that as Im satisfied its most 
likely it sent them. 
The front page  of the policy says there are important changes  to it. The changes  including  
the referral fee - were then set out in a table under the headings current  and new . On that 
basis I think the change  to the policy was made  clear enough. 
The policy says it wont charge the referral  fee if the pet needs  emergency treatment for a 
situation that if not resolved immediately  will lead to a loss of life or cause a serious  threat to 
the present or ongoing health of your pet. I appreciate Mr Ss cat was sadly euthanized a 
couple of weeks  later, but there were a few days between Mr S taking his cat to the vet and 
the cat being referred to a different vet. So I dont  think I can reasonably  conclude  that the 
referral was needed immediately due to an emergency. 
I appreciate Mr S might not have had to pay a referral free with a previous pet, but this could 
be because it was before RSA made  the change to its policy.  And even if it wasnt  and RSA 
made a mistake by not applying the fee previously, that doesnt mean it would need to do so 
again. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr S and RSA where he phoned  for his policy  number. He 
only asked for his policy number and didnt  mention  that his cat had been referred to a 
different vet. I didnt  hear anything to make  me think RSA should have known to mention the 
referral fee. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping  for, but Im not going to interfere with 
RSAs decision to deduct the referral  fee from his settlement amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7929530