K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the lack of a clear  answer to her question  about the fees charged by 
Henderson Investment Funds Limited (the business) in relation to her Open Ended 
Investment Companies (OEIC) investment. 
She says despite  making repeated efforts to find an exact figure, shes  no closer. She feels  
the business has failed to provide the average yearly bid price to work  out a figure.  
background
In its final response letter  (FRL) the business  hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it 
said:
Its not possible to provide  a monetary figure for the charges taken on the account.  
This is because the sums are deducted  from the respective  investments  rather than 
being calculated  and deducted  from individual accounts.
Charges are typically used to pay for investment management, fund administration  
(including servicing and operating) and independent oversight (including fees for 
depository/trustee, auditor  and regulatory  services).  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Although he has been  unable to obtain a precise monetary figure from the business,  
he feels the charges  have  been correctly applied to the fund rather than the individual  
investment. Hes seen nothing to suggest that the charges  werent  applied  correctly. 
The business has made clear that there  is an annual service charge or on going 
charge of 0.7% a year applied to the fund,  which  includes the annual management 
charge (AMC) of 0.5%.  
The Key Investor  Information Document, Prospectus and Factsheet for the UK 
Tracker Fund  explain these charges, which are applied to the fund as a whole, rather 
than individual  investments.  
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators view. Having been given extra  time to liaise  with the 
industry regulator, shes not provided  any further  submissions.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mrs S says,  Im unable to safely say that the business was wrong not to be able to 
provide an exact  monetary figure  for the charges. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ss strength of feeling about  this matter.  
Ref: DRN76396722Mrs S has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs S and the business, and reach  what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate Mrs S is unhappy that having invested  £1,200 in the UK Tracker  fund and 
received regular statements, theres been no mention of the fees taken from the account. I 
note in late 2015 Mrs S first contacted  the business  to try and find out about the charges that 
were applied. She wants to know if shes getting  a good deal or not. 
An OEIC provider  will usually require  payment  for operating the fund  which is known  as the 
AMC, and can vary between 0.5% and 1.5%  of the value of the fund each year. The AMC is 
usually deducted  each time a share  price  is calculated.  I understand that its known as an 
implicit charge because its not seen to be directly taken from the shareholders individual 
investment.  
The business has made clear that there  is an annual  service charge or on going charge of 
0.7% (not 0.78 as incorrectly initially suggested) applied  to the fund, which  includes the AMC 
of 0.5%. The policy  documentation provided  also makes  this and other charges reasonably  
clear, and appears to be in line with industry  norms.   
If there were any fundamental changes to the OEIC, such  as changes to its purpose or to 
risk profile it would require  the shareholders approval. Any significant changes that were 
likely to cause the customer  to reconsider their investment,  the customers would be given 
reasonable notice of beforehand. Therefore if there  were changes to the charges, that were 
different to what was agreed to at the point of sale,  its likely Mrs S would be notified in 
advance and probably given opportunity to transfer to a different provider.
The business has also made clear that its not possible to give a precise  monetary figure 
because the sums are deducted from the respective investments rather  than being 
calculated and deducted from individual accounts. This explains why its unable  to give a 
precise figure, and I dont  think  the business  is deliberately trying  to be difficult  or cause Mrs 
S any upset.   
I appreciate Mrs S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639672