K821x#15complaint
Miss Z complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes 
being helped  with her complaint by a representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss Z in early  July 2018  under a hire purchase agreement  with 
MotoNovo Finance that she electronically  signed in June 2018. About  two weeks later, 
Miss Zs representative contacted MotoNovo Finance about two issues  with the car. He said 
that there  was a knocking noise from the car and that the cars gears werent working 
properly  and he said that Miss Z wanted to reject the car. The car was inspected by an 
independent expert. A knocking noise  was identified but no fault with the gears  was found. 
MotoNovo Finance paid her £200  towards  her car hire costs  but Miss Z initially refused  to 
take the car back  because she wanted  to reject it  but then did so to avoid storage costs.  
She says that the car continued to have issues  with the gears so she had it inspected by a 
manufacturers dealer  in October 2018.  A fault with the gears  and a rattling  noise were  
identified. Miss Z complained to MotoNovo Finance but wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
the car that was supplied to Miss Z wasnt of satisfactory quality and that Miss Z exercised 
her right to reject the car within 30 days. She said that both faults with the car had been 
substantiated by independent evidence. So she concluded that Miss Z should be allowed to 
reject the car. And she recommended that MotoNovo Finance should cancel the agreement 
and arrange to collect the car from Miss Z. And she said that it should refund the deposit that 
shed paid for the car, all monthly  payments  made after the first payment (all with interest)  
and the £60 that she paid for the October  2018  report. She also said that it should pay 
Miss Z £250 compensation for the loss of enjoyment  and use and the additional worry and 
stress that she was caused.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
in summary, that Miss Z did raise an issue early  into the agreement  but the car had passed  
an MOT test (with no advisories) two days before the agreement went  active.  So it says that 
its reasonable to deduce  that the faults weren't present at the point of sale. And it says that 
theres no definitive evidence that there  were  issues present at the point of sale.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Z took delivery of the car in July 2018.  The car was then nearly three and a half years 
old and its mileage is recorded on the hire purchase  agreement as being 23,989. About two 
weeks later her representative contacted MotoNovo Finance about two issues  with the car  
a knocking noise and an issue with changing  gears   and he said that Miss Z wanted to 
reject the car. MotoNovo  Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in August 2018  and it paid £200 to Miss Z towards  the cost of hiring a car. The 
independent expert  identified a knocking  issue coming from the car but couldnt  find a fault 
with the gears. 
Ref: DRN71030582Miss Z initially  refused  to take the car back  because  she wanted to reject  it  but when she 
became aware  of the storage costs she took the car back. But she said that the faults 
continued. She arranged for the car to be inspected by a manufacturers dealer in October  
2018  and she paid £60 for the inspection. The cars mileage was recorded as being 24,957 
at that time  so the car had been driven for less than 1,000 miles since  it was supplied  to 
Miss Z. The report  says:
Reference difficult to get in to drive, feels like something blocking gear lever 
assembly, need to strip unit and inspect ; and: Reference intermittent rattle  noise, 
unable to [find] fault at present.
So Miss Z complained to MotoNovo  Finance  about  faults with the car within  30 days  of 
receiving it. And both the independent experts  report and the October  2018  report  identify 
an issue with noise  coming from the car. Miss Z also complained about a problem with the 
cars gears. A fault with the gears couldnt be found  by the independent  expert  but the 
manufacturers dealer  did find a fault with the gears  when it inspected  the car in October 
2018. The car passed an MOT test with no advisories in June 2018. But Im not persuaded 
that the noise  issue  or the issue with the gears would necessarily have been found during 
that test. And I consider  it to be more likely than not that there  was a noise issue and an 
issue with cars gears when the car was supplied to Miss Z. So I consider it to be more likely 
than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Miss Z. Miss Z 
said that she wanted to reject  the car  and I consider that she was entitled to do so. Miss Z 
also says that the car was repaired in August 2018  without  her approval  and shes  
provided evidence  which she says shows those repairs.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Miss Z to reject the car. 
So I find that MotoNovo  Finance should end the hire purchase agreement  and arrange to 
collect the car from Miss Z  both at no cost to her. Miss Z had some use of the car and I 
consider it to be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance  to receive  one monthly payment 
under the agreement for that use. But I consider that it should refund  to Miss Z the deposit  
that she paid for the car, all of the other monthly payments that shes  made and the £60 that 
she paid for the October 2018  report (all with interest). And Miss Z has suffered a loss of use 
and enjoyment of her car. And shes been  caused  distress and inconvenience by these 
events. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay her £250 
to compensate her for that loss of use and enjoyment and that distress and inconvenience.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Zs complaint. And I order FirstRand  
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Miss Z 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Miss Z the deposit that she paid for the car.
3.Refund to Miss Z the monthly  payments  that shes made under the agreement (other 
than the first payment).
4.Refund to Miss Z the £60 that she paid for the October 2018 report. 
Ref: DRN710305835.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Pay £250 to Miss Z to compensate her for the loss of use and enjoyment of the car 
and the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 5 above. MotoNovo Finance  must  give Miss Z a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103058