K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited settled his claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
Watford is the underwriter  of Mr Ws policy. Reference to Watford  includes reference  to its 
agents. 
background
Mr Ws motor policy  with Watford began in April 2018. Watford charged Mr W a premium of  
£579.08. I understand that in November  2018, Mr W made a claim against  his policy. 
Watford said that the settlement amount for his claim was £23,500.  It came  to light that, 
when he took out the policy, Mr W hadnt  told Watford  about a fixed penalty for speeding in 
May 2017. When Watford settled Mr Ws claim,  it did so on a proportionate basis, which 
meant that it paid him 79% of the settlement amount due, less the excess due under the 
policy. 
Mr W says he simply forgot  to tell Watford about  the points on his licence and he didnt do it 
deliberately. He says that he has a health  condition that affects his memory. Mr W would 
prefer that Watford asked  him to pay the additional  premium it would have  asked him to pay 
if it had known about the points, but it didnt give him that option. He thinks that the 
deduction from his claim is disproportionate.  Mr W wants his claim settled  in full. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Watford  had 
acted unfairly. Mr W didnt  agree  with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman  look at 
the matter, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what  CIDRA  describes as - a qualifying  misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless. 
Ref: DRN72324762If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer  can show  it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy  (treat it 
as if it never  existed). If the misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy,  the 
insurer must show it would not have offered  the policy at all if it wasnt for the 
misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid  the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer  hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim  and settle it proportionately  if it accepts it. 
Watford asked Mr W whether hed been convicted of any motoring offence or had any fixed  
penalties within the last five years. I think that question  was clear. Mr W answered No. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he acted deliberately or recklessly. I think  that when Mr W 
answered that question he knew that hed had a fixed penalty and didnt take reasonable 
care in answering. I think he acted carelessly.  
Mr W says that he has a medical condition that affects his memory but he hasnt provided 
any evidence about that and he didnt  tell Watford about that when he took out the policy. 
So, Watford  was entitled to presume that Mr W had the knowledge  of a reasonable 
consumer.  
Watford has provided me with confidential,  business sensitive information to explain what 
premium it would have  asked Mr W to pay if it had known the true position. Im afraid I cant 
share that with Mr W but Ive checked  it carefully. Im satisfied that Watford  would have 
charged Mr W £737.40 if hed told it about the fixed penalty instead  of £579.08. So, Watford 
has shown that it would  have offered Mr W the policy  on different terms if he hadnt made 
the misrepresentation. So, Im satisfied that Mr W made what CIDRA calls a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
In a case like this, where theres a claim on the policy  after a careless misrepresentation 
which would have affected the premium,  our established approach  is that an insurer is 
entitled to settle  the claim on a proportionate basis. That approach is consistent with CIDRA.  
That means that as Mr W paid 79% of the premium  he should have paid (579.08/737.40 
x100, rounded), Watford is entitled to pay him 79% of the settlement of the claim.
I appreciate that Mr W would prefer to pay the additional premium  and receive  the full 
settlement of his claim but Watford isnt obliged to offer that. 
I understand that the settlement amount due on the claim before deduction of the excess 
was £23,500 and that Watford  paid Mr W 79% of that, i.e. £18,565  - less the excess of £650 
due under the policy. So, Watford  paid Mr W £17,915. And Im satisfied this is in line with its 
obligations under  CIDRA.  Because of this, I think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint  to allow Watford  to do this.  
In Watfords final response  to Mr W, it used incorrect figures  for the premium  it charged      
Mr W and the premium  it would have charged him if it knew the true position. Whilst that may 
have caused some confusion, it doesnt  alter the outcome here as it used  the correct  
proportion in settling  the claim. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  Watford treated 
him unfairly  in settling  his claim on a proportionate  basis. 
Ref: DRN72324763my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7232476