K820x#14complaint
T, a firm of loss assessors, complains on behalf of C, a limited company, that Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) wont pay a claim for storm damage which was so serious  as 
to require the insured property to be demolished.
background
In September  2016 a let property owned by C was affected by serious cracking at the rear 
left hand corner.  This was following  torrential  rain the previous night. The damage was so 
serious that the tenant had to be moved out and the property had to be demolished. 
C had insurance  with RSA but subsidence  damage  was specifically excluded by the policy. 
Its believed that this exclusion was put on the policy as the property  had suffered 
subsidence in the past.
T obtained  an engineers  report essentially  finding  that the damage was caused by 
overflowing and leaking drainage combined with a significant subterranean event. He said 
that the trigger for the significant damage  and movement was the storm/flooding which  had 
occurred in the night. RSA instructed loss adjusters  whose initial  conclusion  was that there  
was softening of the subsoil under the left had corner of the building but recommended  
further investigations. But after the above  exclusion was pointed out RSA said it wouldnt 
take the claim any further. 
There was a delay  in RSA considering the matter again after T wrote  to it in March  2017 
asserting that this was a storm, not a subsidence claim. There  was some confusion  as the 
matter had to be passed  between departments.  T had to chase the matter up and referred it 
to this service before  RSA agreed  to reconsider the claim as storm damage.  As a result  it 
instructed different loss adjusters. But it ultimately reached the conclusion that there was no 
storm event. And even if there was a storm, it said that the damage was caused  by or 
contributed to by subsidence. So it said the exclusion applied. It paid £200  compensation  for 
the delays in July 2017.
On referral to this service  our investigator  considered the complaint on the basis of the cover 
for storm  damage, as this is what C made its claim under, having accepted that there is an 
exclusion for subsidence. She found that, although  there was likely to have been a storm, 
the damage wasnt typical of storm damage  and that she didnt think  that storm was the 
dominant cause of the damage.
T didnt agree, arguing that but for the storm the damage wouldnt have occurred. Also it 
pointed out that the last straw argument (i.e. that the storm was the event which  pushed  
the damage into the catastrophic  damage which occurred here)  meant that the claim should 
have been considered as storm damage. It said that we shouldnt  be looking at typical storm 
damage but damage typical  of the actual  storm event  here.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that because there  was an exclusion for 
subsidence I had to look at whether it applied before considering whether there was any 
cover in the policy for the damage. I reached  the conclusion that it was most likely that there 
was a subsidence event so the exclusion for subsidence  damage applied.
T replied  to the provisional decision indicating that C didnt want  to add anything. RSA hasnt 
responded to the decision.  
Ref: DRN79970872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
First of all I should  reiterate that we are an informal resolution service independent of both 
the insurer and the consumer/complainant. I say this as it has been suggested by T that we 
are consumer champions which isnt our function.
The actual claim here is under the storm cover in the policy. It could also possibly be flood or 
escape of water damage. But I think that before any of the possible ways in which  the claim 
could be covered are considered, I have to look at whether the subsidence exclusion applies 
because, as its an exclusion which affects the whole policy,  if it does apply then put simply 
the damage isnt covered.
The exclusion says:
This insurance excludes any loss, damage, expense,  consequential  loss or legal liability
directly or indirectly caused by or contributed to by subsidence, heave or landslip.
This is a wide-ranging  exclusion. It is for the insurer to show that it is most  likely that the 
damage was caused by or contributed to by subsidence.  
There are a number of expert reports in this case. The case was initially investigated for 
subsidence by RSAs loss adjusters. Their initial conclusion was that softening of the subsoil 
around the rear left-hand corner  had triggered  the recent movement. In fairness those loss 
adjusters anticipated  that there  would  be further  investigations, But on being  informed  by 
RSA that there was the exclusion for subsidence damage the loss adjusters closed their file.
T appointed an engineer and sent his report to the first loss adjusters to advise that the claim 
was being pursued as storm damage. The engineers main conclusions  were:
Significant downward movement of the left-hand side elevation  of the building had 
occurred resulting in cracking to the walls  and distortions to the floors  and ceilings.
The neighbouring property to the left of the subject property had also suffered from 
movement.
The rear left-hand upper comer of the building was found to be leaning outwards with the 
extent of movement  suggesting that partial  collapse of this section of the building  was 
imminent.
The damage which occurred to the property  resulted from overflowing  and leaking 
drainage pipework combined  with a significant  subterranean event which  caused  both 
the previously underpinned and non-underpinned sections of the property to subside.
Communication with the adjoining owner confirmed the possible presence of an 
underground water  course or similar underground  feature.
Ref: DRN79970873No damage or more  recent movement was recorded until the incident in September  
2016. It is clear that the trigger for the significant  damage and movement to the property 
was the storm/flooding which occurred on that night.
I bear in mind that at the time of the engineer writing the report, and following his 
recommendations and those  of the local authority, the property had been demolished. So 
any further investigations could only be made of the site and the drainage,  and not of any 
historical cracking.
A report was also done by Cs managing  surveyors. A trial hole was dug which  revealed  
moist gravel/silty clay that was probed  by hand and found to become very soft around  1.25m  
below ground  with increasing moisture  content.  Their report concluded 
the basic  problem is water from leaking drains and general rainfall affecting the soil below 
the foundations resulting in subsidence of most of the foundations"
Finally RSA appointed a second firm of loss adjusters. They  investigated the likely cause of 
the subsidence and considered documents relating to the previous subsidence claim and 
also relating to the subsidence in the neighbouring property. That property  had also made a 
claim following on from the storm although because of its piled raft foundation the property 
was largely unaffected, although as a precaution the drains serving  that property and the 
shared drain  with Cs property were repaired.  RSAs adjuster said:
In conclusion, it would seem likely, although unproven,  that the stability of the risk address 
could have been adversely affected  by a continuing leakage from the drains to the rear of 
the property and possibly the communal service which extended between [the two 
properties]. As noted in our previous reports there is evidence of partial blocked and 
defective drain services  to the rear of the risk address and the shared drain run.
T has referred us to our guidance and the accepted definition  of subsidence by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  which is "downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings other 
than by settlement.  So the fact that the property itself has had downward movement 
wouldnt mean that there was subsidence  unless  the ground underneath  had had downward  
movement. T says that there was no such movement as the property itself hadnt shown any 
signs of subsidence  (and the damage  wasnt related to the previous forty years  old 
subsidence), And the soil hadnt itself had downward movement but rather  had been 
scoured away laterally by the action of the rainfall. It also referred  to a subterranean event.
The problem I have  with Ts argument is firstly  that if there had been subsidence cover 
I cant think that we would say it was reasonable  for an insurer  to use that argument in order  
to avoid paying a claim  for subsidence.
Further the reports from the engineer employed  by T say that the leaking drainage and 
pipework had caused both the non-underpinned and the underpinned sections of the 
property to subside. And the report from the managing surveyor said this resulted in 
subsidence of most  of the foundations. Whilst a lay person  may use the word subsidence  
in a general way, the phrase in building and insurance terms does have a specific  meaning. I 
think professionals  would know what technically constitutes subsidence and would use the 
phrase in that way.
I also have a problem  with accepting that the soil was completely  scoured out. I cant see 
that the experts reports say this. Ts engineer  mentions a subterranean event but doesnt 
Ref: DRN79970874explain what  that means, although refers  to an underground stream.  The reports  say there 
was wet soil present which in my view is the more likely cause of subsidence when there is a 
significant escape of water  from the drains.  
So I think overall that there was a subsidence  event most likely triggered by the extensive  
rainfall, but contributed to by the overflowing leaking  and blocked drains. For that reason I 
think the exclusion for subsidence  damage  as Ive set out above  applies and that RSA is 
acting reasonably in not paying the claim.  
There was a delay  in RSA reconsidering  the matter after its first loss adjusters visited. I dont 
know why those loss adjusters  werent aware  of the subsidence exclusion. But its fair to say 
that such an exclusion is unusual and in circumstances such  as where an urgent  inspection 
is needed, the policy would usually be looked  at afterwards when drawing up the report. That 
said, there was a delay  in passing the claim between  departments  and as a result RSA didnt  
reconsider the matter  again until July 2017.  It paid £200, recognising  the delay. 
T has also pointed out that RSA delayed from August 2017 until April 2018  before giving its 
final response. In that respect RSA had to gather technical information and seek  legal 
advice. Its final loss adjusters report was dated March 2018.  I dont think there was any 
culpable delay after RSA took the matter up again in July 2017.
As for the compensation paid I think that was reasonable.  C is a limited company and as 
such cant be compensated for distress. It can be compensated for inconvenience  to its 
officers, although I note that the chasing up was taken on by T.
As neither party has any further comments,  my provisional findings  are now final and form 
the findings of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997087