K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that an agent  working for Estone  Personal Credit Limited made  incorrect 
entries on her account. 
background
Ms B was due to make  a payment to her loan account with Estone but wasnt at home when 
the agent called.
The agent  decided  to follow a process called CAPI (Collect After Pay In). This is a process 
where the agent makes a payment on behalf  of a customer to prevent the account going into 
arrears on the basis that the customer makes the payment at the earliest opportunity. The 
agent paid £10 on behalf of Ms B on 7 March 2018.
Ms B says the agent shouldntve followed this process. She says she told the agent she 
wasnt going to be at home on her usual collection day and that she would contact the office  
directly to make her payment. Ms B says she received  a text back  from the agent  in which  
the agent said she could pay two weeks worth  of payments the following week.
The following  week,  the agent called to collect Ms Bs payment. Ms B says the agent 
deposited £5 into an incorrect account and that she only noticed this after the agent had left.
Ms B queried the transaction. In response a manager offered to visit her. Ms B wasnt  happy 
to meet  the manager because he was also the partner of the agent  who had made the 
incorrect entry and Ms B felt this was unprofessional. She asked to see a different person so 
the business owner visited her instead. The error was identified and £5 was transferred back 
to the correct account on 28 March 2018.
Ms B says she lost trust in Estones ability to record  her payments correctly and stopped 
making payments  to her account.  Shes  unhappy that Estone sent a collection agent to her 
home and says the agent behaved  in a threatening manner.
Estone says it is willing to waive Ms Bs remaining balance.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought Estone had made  errors in administering  
the loan payments which had caused  Ms B distress  and inconvenience. He recommended 
that Estone  paid further compensation of £75.
Estone didnt agree. It said Ms B hadnt made any payments to the account for over 18 
months and it felt that writing off the loan was reasonable. 
Ms B didnt agree either. She said shed been made to feel she was the one at fault because  
she owed money but said that until the agent  made  the errors shed never missed a 
payment. She felt that her character had been blackened because the collection agent had 
approached her neighbours to obtain information  about her. Ms B said she wanted the agent 
who had made the errors dismissed from the business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71949302Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill focus on what I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on a specific point its not because Ive failed to think  about it but because I dont 
need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In relation to Ms Bs desired outcome, its important that I make clear that this service  
doesnt consider  the dismissal of staff.  Only the business  can decide on what  sanction  to 
impose on its staff.
Ive looked at the account statements. I appreciate Ms B wouldve been concerned to see 
unidentified or unexpected transactions on her account. I agree that £5 was paid into the 
wrong account  but I can see that this error  was rectified shortly  afterwards. So Im satisfied 
that Ms B hasnt suffered  any financial loss as a result of the error.
In relation to the payment due on 7 March, I understand Ms Bs frustration because she 
thought shed agreed something with the agent.  Its not clear why the agent  did something  
different. However, Im satisfied that the agent used the CAPI process as Estone has 
described. Estone  acknowledged that the agent  shouldnt have acted as she did and an 
appropriate warning  has been given.
I appreciate that Ms B was unhappy  about  the CAPI payment and the incorrect allocation of 
£5. However, even  if this caused Ms B to lose faith in the agents ability  to correctly allocate 
payments, I dont think Ms B should  have stopped making payments altogether. She could 
have arranged an alternative way to pay the business directly.
In relation to the visit by the collection agent, I can see that Ms B hadnt made payments for 
some time. Estone has said it tried to contact  Ms B without success. In the circumstances, I 
dont think Estone acted  unreasonable by sending the agent.  Im unable  to comment  on the 
collection agents behaviour because theres no evidence about this. Ms B wasnt  present 
when the agent called  and no-one else has provided any evidence as to what  was alleged to 
have been said or done  by the agent.
Estone has offered to waive Ms Bs remaining loan balance. I can see that the relationship 
between Estone and Ms B has broken down and I think this is a reasonable offer in the 
circumstances.
However, I dont think its enough for Estone to simply write  off the loan. Im unable  to ignore 
the two errors made on Ms Bs account and its clear that Ms B has suffered distress  and 
inconvenience as a result. So Im of the view that further compensation should be paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Estone  Personal  Credit Limited should pay 
further compensation of £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7194930