K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Aldermore Bank  Plc delayed the transfer of his ISA savings to another  
bank.
background
Mr C had an annual ISA with Aldermore which reached maturity on 11 April 2019.
He found an account with a better  interest  rate and requested transfer  of his funds at the 
date the ISA reached maturity - earlier transfer  wasnt permitted. As is usual, the request for 
transfer was made via the new provider.
Aldermore received the request on 28 March  2019.  On 11 April (the date the ISA matured), 
they went to process  the request, but found it had been incorrectly  submitted. 
In short,  it requested transfer of current years funds, not previous years. And by the time 
the request was to be actioned, Mr Cs funds  were from the previous financial year.
The new provider submitted a further transfer request on 13 April and the funds were 
transferred on 17 April.
Mr C was unhappy Aldermore had delayed transfer  of the funds and made  a complaint to 
them. They didnt uphold the compliant, so Mr C complained to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think Aldermore had done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He believes the forms 
used to request  transfers are ambiguous and/or misleading. And hes unhappy  that hes 
missed out on a higher interest  rate between  11 April and 17 April 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can why Mr C thinks the forms  are confusing. At the point  they were  completed, the new 
provider was requesting transfer  of the current years  funds.  But by the time the form was to 
be actioned they were the previous  years.  
However, the forms were  completed by the new provider.  And they should be aware  of the 
way the system works. Indeed, Mr C has complained to them and theyve admitted their 
mistake  and provided £25 in compensation.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Aldermore to pend the request received on 28 March 
until it became effective on 11 April. And at that point,  they acted quickly to inform the new 
provider, who then submitted a further  (corrected) request.
As I understand the timeline, the new request was submitted  on 13 April and Aldermore 
completed the transfer on 17 April. Thats three  business days.  
Aldermores own terms and conditions  say theyll complete transfers  within five business  
days of receiving a valid request.  HMRC say transfers should be actioned  within  15 days.
Ref: DRN76479012Comparing the interest rate currently advertised on ISAs by the new provider with the rate 
Aldermore gave, the difference to Mr C between his funds  transferring on 11 April as 
opposed to 17 April would be measured  in pennies rather than pounds.
The new provider admitted the delay  was their fault and gave Mr C £25 in compensation. 
The evidence shows they were right  the forms were completed  incorrectly.  
Aldermore were entitled  if not obliged  to ask for an accurate and complete transfer 
request. So I cant conclude that Aldermore  did anything wrong in the way they handled the 
transfer of Mr Cs funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7647901