K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in January 2018.  He financed the deal through a 48 month 
hire purchase agreement but in December 2018  he brought  a complaint to VWFS. He said 
the cars  internal paintwork had never been satisfactory.
VWFS arranged  an independent inspection of the car and the inspector agreed. He said:
there are several internal painted areas  on this vehicle  which  are clearly  commercially 
and cosmetically unacceptable
When Mr B brought his complaint  to this service our adjudicator agreed that there was 
evidence the car had not been of satisfactory  quality  from the beginning. He suggested that 
VWFS should therefore take the car back;  end the agreement; return  the deposit and 5% of 
all instalments that had been paid and pay Mr B £200 to compensate  him for the distress 
and inconvenience  hed experienced.
VWFS agreed with this resolution but they said that they would have to deduct an amount 
from the settlement  that was equivalent  to the amount Mr B was behind with his payments. 
The adjudicator thought  this was reasonable but Mr B didnt and, upset at a letter he 
subsequently received  chasing the debt,  he asked for the complaint  to be escalated  to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
Ref: DRN76388312standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. This was a 
brand new car so I wouldnt expect it to have any faults. 
Im persuaded by the independent  inspectors report that this car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality because the internal paintwork was clearly inadequate.  I agree  that, whilst a repair  
would usually be the first action, that wouldnt be the best option  here.  I agree  with the 
adjudicator that it would be more reasonable to allow Mr B to reject the vehicle and to 
terminate his finance agreement and I note that VWFS are now supportive of this.
In those circumstances we would usually instruct VWFS to reimburse the deposit  and I see 
no reason to depart from that here.  Whilst the paint quality wouldnt have stopped Mr B 
driving the car, I think  its clear it would have impaired his enjoyment of the vehicle and I 
therefore agree that 5% of instalments should be returned in respect of this. Mr B has 
obviously been inconvenienced by this issue  and in the circumstances Id agree that 
compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable. 
Mr B has been able to drive the car and continues to benefit from it so its only fair he makes 
payments towards  it. I therefore think its fair for VWFS to reduce the settlement by the value 
of any instalments that are in arrears.  
I understand that Mr B may have suspended payments towards  his agreement whilst his 
complaint was in progress. Hes upset that VWFS have pursued those payments and that 
theyve contacted him when he asked them not to. Businesses are often prepared to 
suspend debt collecting activity whilst  complaints are in our system. But Im afraid we cant 
insist they do so and I therefore dont think VWFS have done anything  wrong when  
contacting Mr B to chase  payment.
Ref: DRN76388313my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement 
collect the car at no cost to Mr B
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
refund  5% of all instalments paid in respect of loss of enjoyment
pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports that they may have  made to Mr Bs credit file in relation 
to this issue
they may reduce the settlement by the value of any instalments in arrears
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7638831