K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about how Santander UK Plc administered  a mortgage account  and current  
account after being informed that its customer,  Mr R, had died. The complaint is brought  on 
behalf of Mr Rs estate,  by Ms R, in her capacity as executor.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms R when my decision is 
published.
Mr R had a mortgage  with Santander,  the monthly  payments for which were made by direct 
debit from a current account also with Santander.  The money to cover  the direct  debit 
payments was provided by a monthly standing order from a current  account with another  
bank that Ill refer to as H. 
Sadly, Mr R died in 2016; his will appointed Ms R as the executor of his estate, subject to 
probate. However, very soon after he died,  Mr Rs former wife (whom  Ill refer to as Ms S) 
visited a Santander  branch,  presented  a copy of the death certificate,  saying she was 
entitled to the funds  in the current account. Santander allowed Ms S to close  the account 
and take the funds, after shed signed an indemnity agreeing to reimburse  Santander if it 
later faced a valid claim on the money. 
When she found out, Ms R was concerned  about how this would affect the mortgage  
payments. Meantime, Santander  wrote to Ms R explaining that the mortgage  was now due 
for repayment in full but that it needed  a Grant of Probate before it could accept her 
instructions. 
Probate took a long time and initially, a firm of solicitors  Ill call C was involved. Santander 
wrote to C periodically during late 2016 and early 2017 asking what was happening with the 
mortgaged property, but received no reply until April 2017 when C wrote to say matters were  
being handled by a different firm, which Ill call M. Probate was granted  in September  2017 
and M sent Santander  a copy of the Grant of Probate in January 2018; at the same time,  it 
asked Santander  to recover the money Ms S had taken in 2016.
In April 2018, Santanders solicitors, whom  Ill call E, wrote  to M asking what was 
happening with the mortgaged property.  E wrote  again in June 2018, and M replied saying  
the property would be going  to auction the following month. It seems  E didnt receive that 
letter and on 10 July 2018, it wrote directly to Ms R to say it was going to commence 
possession proceedings on Santanders  behalf. This upset Ms R greatly and she 
complained, at the same time raising concerns about the closure of the current account  by 
Ms S in 2016.
Ref: DRN75747642Santander issued  a final response on 13 August 2018. On the account closure, it said it had 
followed the correct  procedure and acted in good faith at the time. As far as the possession  
letter was concerned, it said E hadnt  been  aware  of the intended  auction  at the time of its 
letter to her, but now that it was, it was in direct contact with M. 
Santander apologised to Ms R for the distress  it had caused her, wished her well with the 
impending auction and said that provided  M kept E updated with progress, it would allow  a 
reasonable amount of time for the sale to complete. The property did sell at auction (not as 
result of possession action on Santanders  part, as our investigator mistakenly  thought)  and 
the mortgage was repaid in November 2018.
When Ms R referred the complaint to us, our investigator wasnt persuaded E had done 
anything wrong  in writing  to Ms R in July 2018, given that it hadnt received Ms update.  As 
for the account  closure in 2016, Santander  confirmed that it would reimburse the estate with 
the closing balance  and seek to recover it from Ms S under the indemnity  shed  signed  at 
the time.  It simply  asked  that Ms R provide proof of identity and details of the bank account 
to which  the money  should be paid.
The investigator thought this was a fair response, but Ms R doesnt agree; she says it 
doesnt deal with the extra amount the estate had to pay to redeem the mortgage.  
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
I sense great  frustration on Ms Rs part that, as a result of her own health  problems,  she 
feels shes struggled to express  herself as clearly  as shed had wished to. I want to assure 
Ms R that shes put her case eloquently  and with no little passion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Where theres a dispute 
about the evidence, including whether all of the relevant evidence  has been provided,  its for 
me to decide  if I have  everything I need to determine the case  fairly. Here,  Im satisfied I can 
do so on the basis  of what I have in front of me.
I make  another observation before I address the merits of the complaint, which is that for the 
purposes of my investigation (and our rules)  Ms R doesnt have a claim for losses of her own 
that we would be able to consider or remedy. This isnt a matter  of respect or courtesy. Its a 
matter of our rules,  as they determine who is eligible to bring  a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (known as an eligible complainant).
Ref: DRN75747643The rules  say the late Mr Rs estate is an eligible complainant. Ms R represents the estate 
but that doesnt make her a customer of Santander,  or an eligible complainant under our 
rules. Ms Rs standing in respect  of this complaint stems from her appointment as executor 
for the estate. 
That much I suspect Ms R already understands and accepts, but it also means  that when 
assessing fair compensation, I cant take account of any time Ms R has taken, or any trouble 
and upset or distress  she feels  shes been put to, as shes  not the eligible complainant.  Ive 
no doubt this has been a thoroughly unpleasant experience for Ms R. Sadly,  for the reasons 
outlined above,  Ive no power  to order that she be compensated personally for that. I can 
award compensation to Mr Rs estate if I believe it has suffered financial loss (and Ill come  
to that shortly) but I cant award compensation to the estate for upset,  as its not possible for 
an estate to suffer upset.
Ill begin with what happened in 2018 when E wrote to Ms R to say it was about to begin  
possession proceedings. Ive no doubt  that came  as a horrible shock  to Ms R, but what I 
have to decide is if E acted unfairly  or inappropriately  when it wrote  to her (instead of  or as 
well as  to M). Being  impartial means I have to look at things from Santanders point of view 
as well. 
Everything has a context, and here its relevant to remember  that Santander had been 
asking M for updates since April 2018,  and although M had provided an update  on 
3 July 2018, E hadnt received it. Viewed against that backdrop, it was, first of all, not 
unreasonable for Santander to instruct E to warn  of possible  possession proceedings, and 
secondly, not unreasonable for E to address  the warning letter  to Ms R, as from its point of 
view, its letters to M were seemingly being  ignored.
The final response  of 13 August  2018  shows that once  Santander  knew that M was trying to 
sell the mortgaged property auction,  it was content to allow that to happen. What that 
suggests to me is that if Ms letter of 3 July 2018  had been received, Santander may well 
have been similarly content and wouldnt have felt it needed to instruct E to write to Ms R in 
the manner it did. 
I cant know that for sure of course,  but ultimately I dont  need to in order  to decide on 
balance that the letter to Ms R from E, whilst very unwelcome for her, wasnt  sent 
unreasonably or unfairly. 
That brings me to the question of the current account closure, and the effect Ms R thinks  this 
had on what happened  to the mortgage.  This is quite a complex matter  its also very 
sensitive - and I know Ms R believes strongly  that Santanders actions in letting Ms S close  
the account have cost the beneficiaries (to be clear,  she is not one of them) dearly.
Im not unsympathetic  towards Ms Rs sense of injustice; its clear shes taken her duties as 
executor very seriously and I suspect  she feels  shes  been  prevented  from doing right by the 
beneficiaries. Thats  completely understandable.
First of all, Im glad Santander has agreed  to pay the closing balance  from 2016  to the estate 
and worry about  relying on the indemnity to recover the money from Ms S itself. Its the right 
thing to do, and all thats needed for that to happen  (if it hasnt already) is for Ms R to provide 
details of the executor account  and an acceptable  proof of identity.  I cant  order that to 
happen as part of this decision.  Thats  because  it would  also require me to order  the bank 
Ref: DRN75747644and Ms R to do something, and I have no power to order Ms R to do anything.  She and 
Santander can organise the return of the money  between them and theres nothing  for me to 
order Santander alone to do so that this can happen. 
But does Santander  need to do more  than simply pay the money to the estate? Ms R 
believes the mortgage balance grew by tens of thousands of pounds  over the two years  until 
it was repaid because  the monthly  direct  debit wasnt being paid. She sees that as having 
caused a loss to the estate, and by extension,  to the beneficiaries. However,  having  given  
this great  deal of thought, I dont find that to be the case.
Firstly, the mortgage arrears that accumulated  between the date Mr R died and the date the 
mortgage was repaid  werent a loss to the estate;  they were a legitimate liability for the 
estate to meet until such time as the mortgage  could be repaid. More importantly, 
Santanders decision to close  the current account on Ms S instruction isnt the reason the 
arrears accumulated.
Even if Santander hadnt closed the current account on Ms S instruction, the direct  debit 
from the current account to the mortgage would in any event have  had to stop being  paid. 
Its standard banking practice, upon notification  of the death  of an account-holder,  to 
consider all existing  payment  instructions  as no longer valid.  For completeness, that includes 
standing orders. That means that once bank  H was informed of Mr Rs death, it would have 
cancelled the standing order that sent money  to the Santander current account to cover  the 
mortgage direct debit. 
Ms R has said that because there was a caveat on probate  (thats a process whereby 
another party  in this case, I understand it was Ms S - objects to probate being granted), the 
current account could  have continued  with the direct debit still active.  Im afraid thats not the 
case; Santander would always have had to stop the direct debit payment from the current  
account to the mortgage and H would have had to stop the standing order payment to the 
Santander current account that funded the direct debit.
In the normal  course of events, probate would be granted within  a short  period of time, and 
the executor would then be able to set up an account with a fresh  direct  debit on it to resume 
mortgage payments.  The only way the mortgage payments could have been made in 
between times would have been  if Ms R had paid them from her own resources (and to be 
clear, Im not for one moment suggesting she should have done that or that she is at fault for 
not having done so). This was a very unfortunate situation for Ms R to have to deal with, but 
ultimately, the time it took to obtain probate is the real cause of the arrears  that accumulated  
on the mortgage.
Then there is question  of interest on the funds being  refunded. Where a person (or as here, 
a deceaseds  estate)  has been deprived of money because of a mistake, wed expect 
interest to be paid for the period of time the money  wasnt available  to use. So the question 
for me to decide is; did Santander  make  a mistake when it allowed Ms S to withdraw  the 
money from the current account?
Santander was presented  with a death certificate  and a request from the bearer to close  the 
account. The banks  internal procedures  allowed  that to happen provided the bearer signed 
an indemnity, and Ms S did that. So, on one level Santanders has followed  its own 
procedures in allowing  the account closure.  But following process is only part of it; I still have 
to consider if Santander should have had doubts  about Ms S entitlement to the funds and 
therefore refused  her request.  
Ref: DRN75747645Its tempting to look back with the benefit of hindsight  and simply agree  that Ms S had no 
right to the money.  But Santander didnt have  the benefit of hindsight at the time, and without 
it having a compelling reason to refuse her, I cant fairly say that Santander was negligent  in 
allowing Ms S to close the current account  in the circumstances that prevailed on the day. 
For that reason,  I dont  find that Mr Rs estate is due interest on the current account balance 
when the funds are paid to it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R, in her 
capacity as executor  for the estate of Mr R, to accept or reject my decision before 19 
December 2019.
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7574764