K820x#14complaint 
Mr and Mrs N have complained about several  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
unemployment claims they tried to make with St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews).  
background
Over the years Mr and Mrs N tried to make several unemployment claims on the PPI policy 
for Mr N. Mr and Mrs N tried to claim for Mr N in 2005, 2014, 2015  and 2018.
Mr and Mrs N explained that on the earlier claims,  Mr N found  a job about  a month after 
losing his earlier jobs - so they werent concerned too much  about them.  But they were 
concerned that it was difficult to speak to the right person when logging the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ns biggest concern is the later claim in 2018. They say when they phoned  
St Andrews  to say Mr N had lost his job they were  told the matter had to go to tribunal. 
Mr and Mrs N say they couldnt wait for a tribunal and took the decision for Mr N to take his 
pension early  which  they used to pay off the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  as they had paid for the PPI policy for around 21 years and feel 
that the PPI should have paid out when they needed it  and they shouldnt have had to use 
Mr Ns pension.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Broadly summarised he considered 
that the claims hadnt actually been assessed by St Andrews   either due to Mr and Mrs N 
not pursuing the claim or St Andrews not receiving the relevant information  back  it required 
to assess the claims, such  as completed claims forms or evidence to validate the claims. 
Because the claims hadnt been  formally  assessed and actually declined  he was unable to 
say St Andrews had acted unfairly. 
As Mr and Mrs N disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved,  its been  passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs N, so Id like to explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  has been ongoing for some time  and their unemployment claim 
concerns cover a lengthy period. I can see that they had concerns  with the seller of the PPI 
as well as with the insurer of the PPI (which is what this complaint is about). And overall I 
can see Mr and Mrs N are frustrated with the whole process.
The seller  of the PPI policy (so the business which initially sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs N) is a 
different business.  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about the seller has been  looked at separately  
by our service under a separate reference. 
Ref: DRN72437012Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  about the sale of the PPI has had an ombudsmans decision. An 
ombudsmans decision is the final stage of our process and is the end of our involvement. 
This means  I am unable to comment on that aspect further.
Within my decision, I will only be looking at the actions of the insurer, St Andrews, and what 
its responsibility is in regards to Mr and Mrs Ns PPI policy and the claims  made under it. 
I would like to assure  Mr and Mrs N that I have carefully considered  all of their submissions 
and testimony that they have submitted. 
the claims made under the PPI policy in 2005,  2014 and 2015
From reading Mr and Mrs Ns testimony it appears that they werent  necessarily unhappy 
with what happened  on these earlier claims.  And this is because  Mr N was able to return  to 
work shortly after being made unemployed.
With all insurance policies  there are exclusions and limitations  and a common  exclusion or 
limitation with unemployment claims is that there  is a waiting period before you can claim. 
Sometimes it is a 30 day waiting period, but some  policies have a longer 60 or 90 day 
waiting period also. This simply  means  that you have to be out of work  for the required 
amount of days set out in the policy terms before  you can claim for unemployment.
Mr and Mrs Ns policy had a 30 day excess (waiting period) before Mr N could claim. 
Because Mr N found employment so soon after he was made unemployed, it seems to me 
that it is unlikely  that those claims would be successful.  And Mr and Mrs N seemingly didnt 
pursue those claims for the same  reason   Mr N returning  to work very soon after being 
unemployed.
But, I cannot know for definite  whether  Mr Ns claims  would have been successful, as 
ultimately, they werent submitted  or assessed.  
With all insurance claims,  it is fair for the insurer to seek to validate  each claim. And in doing 
so it normally requires  consumers to provide evidence  of their claim to the insurer. So with 
unemployment claims for example, it typically would require (dependent  on the policy  terms) 
the consumer  providing information such as; the reason for their unemployment, evidence  
that they are registered as unemployed and they are actively  seeking work.
So St Andrews  would need to be given the opportunity to assess  Mr Ns claims,  in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, and this didnt  happen on those earlier  claims.
I note St Andrews has said that it is still willing  to consider any claim period for Mr N should 
Mr and Mrs N want this. And I think that is fair in the circumstances. 
If Mr and Mrs N wish for any claim to be reassessed they should contact St Andrews. 
Mr and Mrs N have said it was difficult to speak  to the right person when trying to log the 
possible claims. I understand Mr and Mrs Ns frustration  and it certainly can be frustrating 
trying to log a claim and being  passed from department to department. 
Ref: DRN72437013Mr and Mrs N, albeit on the later claim,  also say they were  passed through  to a call centre 
that was abroad. It seems  to me that this wasnt St Andrews  but a phone number for a 
department of the seller. And it certainly  must have been confusing calling one department 
and being transferred when ultimately trying  to get in touch with the insurer. 
I do note that Mr and Mrs N were speaking and liaising directly with St Andrews later on. It 
seems to me that the issue stems from there being two parties/businesses being  involved  
the seller and the insurer, and whilst  confusing  Im not minded to uphold their complaint  on 
this basis and dont  award any compensation.
the claim in 2018
There appears to have been  some confusion with this claim. 
Mr N tried to make  a claim in July 2018 when he lost his job. The misunderstanding  stems 
from whether Mr N was dismissed from his job. Mr and Mrs N had a phone conversation with 
St Andrews  recently  where this misunderstanding has been clarified. 
St Andrews  explained to Mr and Mrs N that when Mr N contacted  them about the claim Mr N 
told it he had been unfairly dismissed.  As the PPI doesnt provide cover  where  a consumer 
loses their job through their own actions  if Mr N wanted to successfully claim under the PPI 
St Andrews  advised  he would  need challenge his dismissal  through  an employment 
tribunal.
On the face of it  that seems correct. And I cant say St Andrews advice,  based  on what  it 
had been told, was wrong. Again, there are exclusions around claiming for unemployment  
one of which is that a consumer  cant claim for unemployment if they have been dismissed 
from their job. The logic behind having  an exclusion like this within  the policy  terms is that 
insurers wants to only pay claims that arent  as a result of a consumers own actions. If a 
consumer deliberately commits an action that leads to their dismissal   then the insurer 
wants to have policy terms  to allow it to protect itself from paying out for that scenario.  
The policy would however provide cover if a consumer was made redundant. And this is 
because a consumer  losing their job through redundancy is typically is outside  of the 
consumers control. So in that situation  it is something that the insurer  would consider.
Mr and Mrs N say it is the latter that happened to Mr N and Mr N lost his job because the 
business he worked for wasnt doing  very well at the time. 
Mr and Mrs N say St Andrews should have  done more for them  at this point. Again, I 
understand their frustration  but the advice St Andrews gave was based  on what  it had 
been told. So I dont think I can fairly say it was at fault.
The claim from 2018 wasnt  ever (and still hasnt  been) fully assessed. I can see from the 
telephone notes that St Andrews explained  to Mr and Mrs N that it was willing to review the 
claim but it seems that the relationship between Mr and Mrs N and St Andrews had broken  
down by this point. As Mr and Mrs N were  frustrated at both the seller and the insurer  by this 
point, it led them to bring the complaint to our service and the claim wasnt pursued.
summary
Ref: DRN72437014Mr Ns earlier claims were never fully assessed and declined by St Andrews. Given what  
Mr and Mrs N have said about Mr Ns circumstances and gaining  employment very soon 
after  seems to me was the reason why they ultimately werent continued  with. 
With the claim in 2018, I cant fairly say that St Andrews has done anything wrong. 
Mr Ns unemployment claim for the period in July 2018 still hasnt been  assessed. So I cant  
say St Andrews have  acted unfairly  when  it hasnt assessed the claim alongside the policy  
terms and conditions and determined whether it is payable or not. 
I appreciate there was confusion as to whether Mr N was dismissed or not  and this led to 
the advice St Andrews  initially  gave at the time.  But it doesnt seem  unreasonable for 
St Andrews  to advise  Mr and Mrs N that theyd need to go to a tribunal given what 
Mr and Mrs N told them at the time they claimed.
Overall St Andrews is still willing to assess all Mr Ns unemployment  claims should  
Mr and Mrs N wish for it to do so. And I think that is a fair way to try and resolve  matters  and 
move things forward regarding the possible unemployment claims.
Mr and Mrs N can get in touch with St Andrews if they would like any claim to be assessed. 
I know that Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed with my outcome, but I hope my decision 
helps them to understand and clarifies for them what  needs  to happen with Mr Ns 
unemployment claims going forward. 
I hope it also helps  them understand what evidence they may need to provide and why, to 
assist St Andrews in assessing the claims. 
And finally, why I also consider St Andrews hasnt  acted unfairly in its actions on Mr Ns 
claims so far.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7243701