K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with the valuation U K Insurance Limited has made of his car in a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr R was involved in an accident. The engineer  appointed by UKI noted he no longer felt 
safe driving the car. As a result  UKI offered to pay him its market value. After taking into 
account some pre-accident damage it offered  him £3,600. Mr R believes this is too low and 
says he cant buy a similar replacement car for this sum. He says the car had extras  and he 
thinks the valuation  should be £4,350 
UKI said in its final response that its valuation was based on trade valuation guides adjusted  
for the cars  condition. It had taken into account non standard options.  It had a starting 
valuation of £3,480 which had been increased  by £610 to reflect the lower than average 
mileage and reduced by £490 to reflect the cars only fair condition.  This led to a final 
valuation of £3,600.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr Rs policy says the most UKI will pay is the cars market value at the time of loss. 
And thats defined  as the cost of replacing it with another similar one at the time of 
loss. In this case that would be for a car in fair condition as the engineer  noted Mr Rs 
car had some pre-accident damage.
We find the valuations  in the main  trade  guides most persuasive when looking at 
market value. They are based  on likely selling process of cars. Having looked at 
them UKIs starting valuation appears to be fair. And as the engineer concluded  the 
pre-accident damage wouldve  cost about  £790  to repair  its fair for it to have 
deducted around half of this amount.  
Overall UKIs valuation and offer of £3,600  appears fair. And she will not be asking it 
to do anymore.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the car was worth  £4,500  because the car market has changed 
from last year. The existing small accident  wasnt his fault. He cant get a replacement  for 
the amount offered.  He has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr Rs policy  says UKI will settle the claim by paying  him the market value of his car at the 
time of loss. And that is the amount he couldve bought a similar replacement  for at the time 
Ref: DRN73808972of loss. In both cases the time of loss is the date of the accident not the date he may later 
purchase a replacement car. 
Its unfortunate if, as Mr R suggests, the car market changed between  the time of the 
accident and the time he was looking for a new car. But that isnt UKIs fault. And it isnt 
required to adjust its valuation as result. Its only required to settle  the claim in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. And that sum isnt necessarily the same  amount that Mr R 
bought the written off car for or the cost to him of actually  replacing  it with another. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
UKIs offer. 
In this case its clear UKIs starting  valuation of £3,480 is in line with the main trade guide 
valuations. The engineer also made  reasonable adjustments  to this valuation to reflect  the 
cars lower than average mileage and only fair condition.  Whoever  was responsible  for the 
pre-accident damage  doesnt affect  UKIs  right to take off a proportion of the cost of repairing 
that damage when  valuing the car, as its reasonably done here. 
Mr R also says his car has a number of extras.  I note UKI says its starting valuation will have 
taken them into account. 
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr Rs frustration, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require UKI to increase its valuation or pay any more to him as hed like. I think 
its offer of £3,600 for the cars market value at the time of the accident  is fair, reasonable 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7380897