K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy with a loan.
background
Miss L took out a Nationwide loan for £1,500, payable  over 36 months, in 2002.  At the same 
time she also took out a single premium PPI policy covering her for the same term. PPI was 
taken out on the phone. Miss L then signed a credit agreement to take out the loan and PPI. 
The policy gave Miss L accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed, so the case has been passed 
to me to consider. Miss L said,  in summary, she wasnt  told the loan and PPI were separate.  
She said had she known that, she wouldve  claimed  on the policy  when she was made 
redundant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Miss L had to agree to take it. 
Miss L said Nationwide didnt make it clear  that PPI was an optional extra.
As well as taking into account  what Miss L remembers, Ive also looked  at the paperwork 
from the time, and taken  into account  what weve learnt about how Nationwide was selling 
these policies from dealing with other  cases. I havent seen anything  to make me think that 
Nationwide wasnt following its usual sales process in Miss Ls case.  
Ive seen the loan agreement Miss L signed. This shows  the costs  of optional credit  
insurance in a separate column. Miss L has signed that agreement.  So, on balance, I think  
it likely  Nationwide made Miss L aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose to take it 
out. I can understand why she may not remember that now given how much  time has 
passed.
From what  Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, I dont think  
Nationwide recommended the policy to Miss L, so it didnt have to check  it was suitable  for 
her needs.  But, it did need to give Miss L clear information about the PPI so she could 
decide whether  it was right for her and if she wanted to buy it. I cant see that PPI was 
inappropriate for her. I say this because:
Miss L appeared  eligible  for the PPI  that is, she qualified to be covered by the 
insurance;
Ref: DRN72554842Miss L wasnt  affected by the main limitations or exclusions  in the policy,  so I dont think 
having better information about  these things wouldve  changed her decision to take out 
the policy because  she couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered;
Miss L said she wouldve got at least six months  worth of sick pay from work if she 
couldnt work. The PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  for unemployment and for 
the duration of the loan if she was off work  because of accident or sickness. So she was 
covered for longer  than her work  benefits wouldve covered her for. So, I think PPI 
couldve offered Miss L valuable protection in her circumstances;
The costs were  set out on the loan agreement Miss L signed. The price of the PPI, the 
interest that was payable, the total cost and the monthly repayment  were all listed.  I think  
the information she was given about the costs  of the policy was clear. I think  it likely PPI 
was added to the loan agreement  because Miss L said she wanted PPI. The PPI was 
referred to as optional credit  insurance on the loan agreement; and
Miss L wouldve got a pro rata refund  of the premiums if her loan didnt run for the full 
three years. So she wouldnt  have lost out financially  if the loan ended early.  
Ive taken into account everything that Miss L has said, including that if PPI had been 
explained to her she wouldve known to make  a claim on the policy when she was made  
redundant, but this doesnt  change  my view. It follows that I dont think  Nationwide  mi-sold 
the policy to Miss L. Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss L. But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss L about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
As a gesture of goodwill Nationwide has also paid back the PPI premiums Miss L paid 
after she was made redundant.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Nationwide Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Nationwide has also agreed  to pay back the premiums she paid after she was made 
redundant. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72554843
Ref: DRN7255484