K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a mortgage with Nationwide  in 1994.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered her mortgage repayments for up to 24 months  at a time if she 
wasnt able to work.
Mrs S says she was led to believe shed have a better chance of securing  the mortgage  if 
she took the PPI. She also says she didnt know it was optional  and that she didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.  Mrs S disagrees,  so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The PPI was taken  out nearly  25 years ago and so theres very little information available 
from the time. Mrs S says she was told shed have a better  chance  of securing the lending if 
she took PPI. Nationwide has said it wouldnt have made a difference  if she took it or not.
But Mrs S has also said she didnt realise it was optional. I think her two statements 
contradict each other. If it wasnt optional then Nationwide wouldnt have needed to 
persuade her to buy the PPI by indicating  shed have a better chance of getting the 
mortgage if she took it. 
On balance, on the limited  information  I have available to me, I think  its more likely  that Mrs 
S bought  the PPI knowing she had a choice about it, although I understand why Mrs S 
wouldnt remember that nearly a quarter of a century  later.  
Nationwide likely didnt make a personal  recommendation  to Mrs S to buy the policy, so it 
didnt need to take steps to make  sure it was right for her. Nationwide did have to make sure 
it gave Mrs S enough information  about the policy  so she could make up her own mind about 
buying it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mrs S all the information she ideally shouldve  received. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I have to consider 
what Mrs S wouldve done if shed had all the information. I dont  think it would have made  a 
difference to her decision to buy the PPI. I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible  for the PPI and wouldnt have been  affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim ,such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Ref: DRN71504452Mrs S said she had very good sick pay from her employer. I havent seen evidence of 
this and it does  seem extraordinarily  generous  compared to other employers in the 
same sector.  But I think Mrs S wouldve  understood she was buying a policy which  
wouldve covered  her mortgage  repayments if she was too ill to work. And she chose 
to buy the policy,  so I think she wanted this type of cover. In any case,  the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay (or redundancy pay, in the case  of 
unemployment) and couldve potentially done so for up to two years at a time. So I 
think it offered a useful additional  benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
time. It was flexible as it could  be cancelled at any time without financial penalty. And 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs S.
While its possible  Nationwide  didnt give Mrs S all the information she shouldve had, I dont 
think more  or better  information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the policy.  
So I dont  think Mrs S lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint so it follows  that Nationwide  Building  Society  doesnt  
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7150445