K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) cancelled  her current account  
card, leaving  her without  access  to her money.
background
In September  2018, RBS sent Mrs K a new card, which could be used to make contactless 
payments. Mrs K called RBS to say she didnt want her card to be able to make contactless 
payments. The person  Mrs K spoke to told her that the bank would send her a new card, and 
she could continue to use the old one until it arrived. However, Mrs Ks old card was 
cancelled by mistake. She complained to RBS and asked for compensation. She also told 
RBS she was unhappy branches  local to her were closing.
RBS said Mrs Ks old card was cancelled by mistake on 10 September 2018 and her new 
card was sent on 13 September 2018, which she first used on 18 September  2018.  But in 
the meantime,  Mrs K could still access her money by withdrawing cash  from a branch 
around ten minutes drive from her house.
To apologise for the inconvenience caused  by its mistake,  RBS paid Mrs K £100  
compensation. RBS also explained it decided to close Mrs Ks local branch but she was still 
able to use its telephone banking service  and access some banking  services through  her 
local post office. 
Unhappy with RBSs  response,  Mrs K referred her complaint to our service  and asked RBS 
to pay her additional compensation. RBS declined to pay Mrs K more  compensation. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ks complaint.  She thought Mrs Ks card had been 
cancelled as a result of a genuine human error,  but Mrs K had been able to still access her 
money by withdrawing  cash. Our investigator  thought the £100 compensation paid by RBS 
fairly reflected the inconvenience  caused  by the banks  mistake. The investigator explained 
RBS has the right to choose which branches  to close, and noted it had since explained to 
Mrs K how else she might  be able to use the banks services.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators  opinion and so her complaint was referred to me for 
a decision. Having reviewed the complaint, I asked RBS to pay Mrs K an additional  £100  
compensation  taking  the total compensation payable to £200.  RBS agreed but Mrs K was 
still unhappy with RBSs offer and wanted more compensation for the upset  she 
experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that RBS made a mistake cancelling Mrs Ks card. I only need to decide 
what RBS should  do to put things  right for Mrs K.
I know Mrs K was left without her card for around a week, which  meant she had to go to a 
cash machine to draw  out cash until her new card arrived.  I know this caused her 
inconvenience and I know she is very upset RBS made this mistake.
Ref: DRN72929822As I explained above, when I first reviewed this complaint, I didnt think  £100 fairly 
recognised the impact  this problem had on Mrs K. I told RBS I thought they should  pay her 
an additional  £100 to recognise the inconvenience and upset caused by its mistake. Whilst 
Mrs K may want a lot more compensation, I still think total compensation of £200 is a fair 
amount for the impact  RBSs mistake had on her.
It may be helpful for Mrs K if I clarify that the financial  ombudsman service is an independent 
and impartial organisation. This means  it is not the financial ombudsmans  role to act on her 
behalf to get compensation for her. Instead,  our role is to decide  how to fairly  put things right 
if something has gone wrong.  And Ive explained  why I think  RBS should pay Mrs K an 
additional £100 compensation to put things right. 
Similarly, it is not the role of the financial ombudsman service  to regulate RBS.  Whilst I 
empathise with Mrs Ks disappointment  that her local branch has closed, it is not for our 
service to decide which branches  RBS should  keep open.  RBS was entitled  to decide which 
branches to keep open and which to close. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should put things  right by paying  Mrs K an additional £100 
compensation, bringing the total compensation to £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7292982