K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the repairs Southern  Rock  Insurance Company Limited made to his 
windscreen under his motor insurance  policy. He wants it to pay for a dealers garage to 
replace the windscreen. 
background
Mr W contacted  Southern Rock to have a chip on his cars windscreen repaired.  It offered 
him its approved repairer but this was inconvenient for Mr W. So a mobile unit attended  
instead and made the repair. Mr W was unhappy  with the quality of this and wanted the 
windscreen replaced by a dealership. He later exchanged his car and said hed lost out 
because of the poor repair.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought 
Southern Rock had provided the service  required  by the policy terms and conditions. When  
Mr W was unhappy with the repair, it had offered a replacement windscreen. But Mr W was 
unhappy with the repairer  and so declined this offer. She thought Southern  Rock  hadnt had 
the opportunity  to put the matter right. So she didnt think it was responsible for Mr Ws loss.
Mr W replied that he thought it was unfair to expect him to risk poor and shoddy  repairs  
being made by the approved garage. He thought he should have been offered an alternative 
or a contribution towards  the costs. He said this cost him £1,500.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr W was provided with a link to his policy documents  when he took it out. 
Section 9 of Mr Ws policy contains the terms and conditions for repair and replacement  of 
windscreens. This says that if repairs are arranged through  its helpline,  then the cover  is 
unlimited, less the policy excess. But if any other repairer is used, then cover is limited to 
£100, less the excess. For replacements, the excess is £75. 
Mr W told us Southern  Rock initially gave him the option of having his windscreen replaced 
at its approved repairers. But this was inconvenient for him due to the location  of the garage 
and the time it might  take.  
Southern Rocks repairer then offered him a mobile  unit to see if the chip was repairable. 
When Mr W was unhappy with the repair made,  it again  offered him a replacement  at its 
approved repairers.  But Mr W said he had no faith in the repairers. Southern Rock then 
provided the option of having the replacement made at his choice of repairers  and it would 
contribute £25 after the policy excess was deducted. 
When a consumer is unhappy with repairs, we think its fair and reasonable for the insurer  to 
be given the chance to put things right. I can understand that Mr W wasnt satisfied with the 
approved repairers.  But I think  Southern Rock gave him the option of replacement at its 
approved repairers  and so it complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN75056822I can understand that this might cause inconvenience, but I think  it was Mr Ws decision not 
to have his car assessed and repaired at the approved repairers  in the first instance.  And 
then I think he declined  the second  offer.
Southern Rock then offered him its contribution towards windscreen  replacement at a 
repairer of his choice,  according to the policy limits. So I think  Southern Rock acted fairly and 
reasonably in responding to Mr Ws claim.  As it acted according to the policy terms and 
conditions, I cant say its done anything wrong.  And I dont require it to make  good Mr Ws 
financial loss.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505682