K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Ferratum  UK Ltd irresponsibly provided  him with payday loans.
background
This complaint is about two short term loans Ferratum provided to Mr M between December 
2016 and March 2017. Some  information  about Mr Ms loans is as follows:
loan 
number start date amount (£) termhighest 
repayment 
(£) end date
1 04/12/2016 300 3 months 152.17 28/02/2017
2 01/03/2017500 (credit 
limit) 37 days 648 27/03/2017
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought Ferratum  shouldnt have lent him loan 
2. The adjudicator thought  the repayment for the loan represented a significant portion of 
Mr Ms declared income. 
Ferratum disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that loan 1 should be upheld. Mr M hasnt disagreed  and 
looking at the circumstances, I dont think Ferratum wrongly lent loan 1.
When Ferratum approved loan 2, the credit agreement states that Mr M had a credit  limit of 
£500, and if Mr M borrowed up to his credit  limit, hed repay £648 within  37 days. Ferratum 
has said that although the credit  limit for the loan was £500, Mr M was only approved to 
borrow £200 and any further drawdown wouldve been subject to further  checks. It also said 
that when Mr M requested  a further drawdown it didnt approve it. Ferratum says because it 
only lent Mr M £200, the repayment  was £240  and this didnt represent a significant amount 
of Mr Ms income.
From the information provided, Ferratum checked  Mr Ms income before it approved  the 
facility but I cant see that it checked his normal living including any regular credit  
commitments he had before any of the loans.
Ref: DRN76642542Having considered the point Ferratum made about  loan 2, I dont agree that because  Mr M 
only drew down £200 meant that it only approved that amount when it decided  to grant him 
the credit  facility.
The loan agreement  clearly states that Mr Ms credit limit was £500 and if he drew  down the 
maximum, then the repayment amount would have been a significant portion of his declared 
income. I think its likely  Ferratum assessed Mr Ms application based  on the credit limit of 
£500 and had he requested to drawdown the maximum  then its likely Ferratum  would have 
approved it at the outset.
I appreciate that Ferratum  says it declined further drawdowns on the account. But I have to 
consider its initial  lending decision and based on the available  information, Im satisfied that 
Mr M was granted a limit of £500 and the repayment was within one pay period. The 
repayment of £648  was a significant portion of Mr Ms income of £1,251  and even without 
knowing his outgoings,  Ferratum shouldve been  reasonably aware that hed struggle to 
repay it and shouldnt have lent to him. The fact that Mr M chose to draw  down  £200  only 
became apparent after the credit limit had already been granted.
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about loan 2 and Ferratum  needs to put things right.
putting things right
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Ms credit file;.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest.  Ferratum   
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664254