K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that The Protection Specialist Limited (PSL) trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice Limited is charging a fee for a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
claim.
background
In July 2017, PSL said Mr G signed a letter of authority  (LOA).  This said PSL could look to 
see if Mr G had any PPI policies  with his lender. And following confirmation  that Mr G had 
some PPI policies; PSL said further  LOAs were signed by Mr G and his partner for it to 
submit claims  for the specific  loans. And these  were submitted 6 October 2017 to Mr Gs 
lender.
In February 2018  Mr Gs lender notified  him of the success of the submitted claims and its 
offer for compensation for each of them. In March 2018, PSL invoiced Mr G for its 
associated fees.  Mr G said hed never  been made  aware what the cost of the service  PSL 
provided would be. And thought the amount he was being charged was excessive. 
Mr G says he never provided his signature on the authority  form. And PSL had mixed his 
and his partners  PPI claims together. He said the LOA had only been  signed by his partner, 
so the claim was made without his consent.  
PSL in its response  said Mr G had agreed  to its terms and conditions and had been fully 
informed of the costs  that would be applied.
Mr G referred  his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman for investigation.  This complaint was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies.
Our investigator said PSL had been authorised by Mr G to contact his lender and the 
submitted claims had been successful. So it could charge its fee.
Mr G didnt agree and has asked for his complaint to go to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The agreement Mr G had with PPI was on a No win No fee basis.  This means PSL 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  they actually 
did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim  
was successful, PSLs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Mr G has provided  a LOA which, although  made  out to both him and his partner, has only 
been signed by his partner. This was dated 19 September 2017. But I have seen an LOA 
dated 19 July 2017, signed  by both Mr G and his partner. It is this document  that PSL used 
to first contact Mr Gs lender  to see if there  were  any PPI policies.
Ref: DRN76414202When Mr Gs lender  confirmed there  were  PPI policies, PSL sought further authority for the 
specific loans. I have  seen LOAs, also dated  19 September  2017,  that have been  signed by 
both Mr G and his partner  for these.  The LOAs  were received and submitted by PSL and 
accepted by Mr Gs lender. 
In PSLs terms  and conditions it says:
Before you sign and send us the letter of authority, please make sure that you read 
these terms carefully, and check that the details on the letter  of authority  and in these 
terms are complete and accurate
And goes  on to say:
These terms become binding upon  you and us once you have signed  the letter of 
authority for a claim.
So, Im satisfied that PSL were authorised to represent Mr G. 
In the terms and conditions of the agreement PSL set out its fee as being 25% plus VAT. It 
also gave examples of what  the monetary value of the fee would be, and what  payment its 
client would  get. This showed that the 25% plus VAT fee would be applied to the total award 
made by the lender before it was subject  to any income tax deduction. So Im satisfied that 
the fee PSL would  charge  for successful claims  was clear in its documentation.  
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt  apply to 
agreements entered  into before this date.
I know Mr G will be disappointed  with my decision. But the claims PSL submitted for him 
were successful. So, Im satisfied PSL acted in line with the terms and conditions by 
charging Mr G its success fee of 25% plus VAT.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7641420