K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that, in respect of their home insurance claim for water damage  
they have been forced  by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) to make  a further claim 
for a second  leak.
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to RSA in August 2017 following their discovery of a leak which 
caused damage to their home, particularly in the first floor ensuite and the second floor 
bathroom. RSA accepted  the claim. Mr and Mrs P made various complaints to RSA about 
the delays in starting work and how the claim was handled. Those complaints were 
addressed in a final response letter sent in June  2018. Mr and Mrs P didnt refer that 
complaint to us until February 2019,  and as this was outside  our six month time limit, our 
investigator confirmed  we cant address those complaints. Mr and Mrs P accepted this.
As the repairs were  nearing completion, the contractors had a plumber visit the property. In 
the course of his work,  he turned the water off. When the water was put back  on, a tap in the 
first floor ensuite bathroom  had been left on. The sink overflowed causing the whole 
bathroom to be flooded,  with more water damage to the bedroom and the lounge below. 
Mr and Mrs P advised us that they and their family  remained downstairs at all times  during 
the daytime, as there is a downstairs toilet.  Mr P says that he and his wife were out of the 
house at the time but his son and mother in law were there but remained downstairs at all 
times.
So Mr P says that one of the contractors must have left the tap open. He believes the painter 
had used the bathroom, as there  was evidence of paint on the tap. But although the 
contractors initially agreed to cover the damage  as a gesture of goodwill  they declined  to do 
when they realised the extent of the damage. They refused to admit liability  and said that a 
member of the household must  have  left the tap on. RSA has told them  that they would have  
to make another claim  for the water damage  and pay a new excess. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said he didnt think it was possible to say who left 
the tap on so he couldnt  say that the contractors were at fault.  So it was reasonable for RSA 
to agree to cover  it as a second claim.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree  they said they had sent evidence of the incompetence of the 
contractors and that the plumber failed to check all the taps as he should  have.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that RSA should be responsible  for 
carrying out the necessary repairs caused by the second leak. It should deal with this as part 
of the first claim  and if it has received  any excess payment  from Mr and Mrs P, it should 
return this.
RSA hasnt responded to my provisional  decision. Mr and Mrs P accepted it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ref: DRN73308932Mr and Mrs P complain essentially that the contractors were  negligent by leaving the tap on. 
They werent in the house at the time so they can only relate to us that the members of their 
family who were there told them they had kept to the strict agreement that they wouldnt go 
upstairs while the contractors were  in the house.  On the other  hand  the contractors were  
upstairs and there is some evidence of paint marks on the tap which may mean that the 
painter used the tap at some time.  But the contractors firmly deny that they left the tap on.
Im afraid that the evidence is insufficient  for me to decide one way or the other who left the 
tap on. But I dont think that addresses  the essential  issue. The contractors would have 
known there  were people  in the house,  but Ive found no indication that the plumber advised  
any of Mr and Mrs Ps family that he was going  to shut the water off or that hed turned it 
back on again. I think this would have been courteous and would  have avoided  the 
possibility that any member of the family  might  try to use the taps.
Ive noted from the loss adjusters notes  that the claims technician  after review with a 
manager, said: 
[contractors] should have told the family the water was going to be turned off. Therefore 
they are liable for the additional  damage to the lounge and replacement  chest  of drawers.
They relayed  this to the contractors who at first were prepared to carry out the extra drying 
etc, until they saw the extent of the damage.
So I think the plumber  (brought in by the contractors) should have told the family that the 
water was going to be turned off, and Ive seen no indication that he did. Possibly he should  
then have gone onto check that there  were  no taps running but if hed told the family first 
what he was doing there would  have  been  no need for him to do that.
I appreciate that even  if the tap was left on it would normally be expected  to drain away. But 
sinks do occasionally  get blocked  and the plumber would have known that.
So I think that RSA should be responsible for carrying out the necessary repairs caused  by 
the second leak. It should deal with this as part of the first claim and if it has received any 
excess payment from Mr and Mrs P, it should return this. The cost of the repairs  will be 
added to the claim, but Mr and Mrs P will only need  to declare one claim for escape of water.
For the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the second leak I propose  to ask RSA to pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr and Mrs P.
As neither party has made any comment on them, my provisional findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
carry out any repairs or replacement as part of the first claim and, if received, refund any 
excess, in respect of the second leak.
remove any reference to there  being  a second  claim  from its database.
Ref: DRN73308933pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7330893