K820x#14complaint
Mr C thinks he has been treated unfairly by Aviva Administration Limited (trading as Friends 
Life Services Limited) (Friends Life).
background
Mr C has a decreasing term assurance  policy with Friends Life. He took out the policy in 
2011. Hes raised  a number of concerns  about this policy and the conduct of Friends Life. 
The policy was set up with a term of 20 years in order to match  the term on Mr Cs 
mortgage. The benefit payable reduced  each month  so as to match the amount outstanding 
on the mortgage. That meant  that in the first year the benefit  was £132,000 but by the fifth 
year it would drop to £121,304. The premium, however,  wouldnt proportionately  reduce in 
the same  way.
He looked up the price  of a comparable level of cover provided by Friends Life on a price-
comparison website and discovered significantly lower premiums  on offer. He says this 
means hes been overcharged.  He emailed Friends Life in 2014 and said the following:
I cant  help notice that I have been paying £36.51  since  January 2012   my life 
insurance or critical illness cover not both has decreased to £125,565 but still at a 
premium of £36.51   I did a search on a comparison website for same value of 
insurance to which your organisation was one of the suppliers at a premium  of 
£23.00  almost £14 less than what Im paying  so I have been overcharged for 2.5 
years.
Hes also unhappy at the level of customer service hes received from Friends Life. He says 
it hasnt responded  to his emails and that he has (for example)  gone  to significant efforts to 
correct administrative errors on the part of Friends Life.
Finally, hes said he doesnt think the policy provided the benefits he was promised and that 
he doesnt have  a clear understanding of how the policy works and what  it does.  But Mr C 
took out this policy through a broker. If hes unhappy about these things he needs to raise 
them directly  with the broker. If he does so and hes unhappy with how it responds  to his 
concerns, he may then be able to refer his complaint  to this service.
His concerns were looked at by an adjudicator who didnt think Friends Life had done  
anything wrong. Mr C disagreed with that opinion and so the complaint has been  referred  to 
me to come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr C says he thinks he has been  overcharged for his policy. He says this because, when he 
looked for a comparable level of cover on a price-comparison website, he found that his 
premiums would be significantly lower.  But it doesnt necessarily follow  from this that Friends 
Life has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN74545082Premiums listed  on price-comparison  websites are typically illustrative, rather  than 
guaranteed. In order to take out a new policy, Mr C might have needed to answer a series of 
medical questions  and his answers to these could  potentially  increase his monthly premium. 
Its also worth noting that insurance policies dont simply vary on the basis  of price alone.  
The policy Mr C found may have had a lower  monthly premium,  but had considerably more 
restrictive terms and conditions.
In any event, Ive looked  at the documentation that was produced at the time Mr C took out 
this insurance. The Key Facts document for Mr Cs policy sets out three  options  in relation to 
premiums  these were:
Guaranteed premiums
Reviewable premiums
Renewable  premiums
The quotation Friends Life supplied to Mr Cs broker shows that it offered to insure Mr C on 
the basis of the first option (guaranteed premiums) and that Mr C proceeded on this basis. 
The Key Facts document gives more information about exactly what this means:
 If your premium is guaranteed your premium will remain the same for the term of 
the membership  We can increase your guaranteed premium if the cost of 
providing cover is increased due to any changes in legislation or taxation  
Premiums will increase if the benefit is increased, for example,  if an indexation option 
is selected.
So Mr C chose an option which gave him the certainty that his premiums would not fluctuate 
from one year to the next but that came with the possibility that pricing  anomalies  might 
develop. I dont think Friends  Life has done  anything wrong in keeping  his premiums at the 
same level since that was the basis on which  Mr C agreed to take out the policy on offer.
If Mr C thinks guaranteed premiums was unsuitable for him then this is really something he 
needs to discuss  with the broker that arranged the cover for him.
Mr C was also unhappy with the customer service he received from Friends Life. He says 
hes had to go to significant lengths to correct administrative errors on its part. He also says 
it didnt reply to his emails  regarding  the premium and that it has taken too long to respond 
when he raised  a formal  complaint. Ive not seen any evidence  to support this and, from 
what I have seen, it did respond to his email when he raised a complaint and it contacted  
him to set out its response to his complaint within less than a month. 
Overall, the evidence Ive seen does not suggest  hes been significantly inconvenienced by 
any administrative errors on the part of Friends Life.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7454508