K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that a claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy was 
unfairly declined  by Covea Insurance plc.
background
In January 2018 Mr W contacted Covea to make  a claim for storm damage. He said the 
storm had caused  some pebble dash rendering  to fall away from above  his French  windows. 
The pebbledash  was attached to plasterboard which had also come away and the 
plasterboard had been fixed to a timber frame. Covea accepted  that thered been  a storm at 
the relevant time and sent a surveyor to inspect the damage.
The surveyor said that the timber frame was rotten  and the render had been  fitted  on 
plasterboard which was a poor design. He didnt think the damage had been caused by the 
storm. So Covea declined  the claim.
Since Mr W disagreed with that decision, Covea arranged for another visit to the property. 
The surveyor still thought  the original decision to decline the claim  was correct. Covea 
explained that Mr Ws policy didnt  cover wear and tear or similar gradually  operating  
causes.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage.
As Mr W didnt agree,  the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed  for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm  conditions the main  cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there  were  storm  conditions around the time that the 
damage to Mr Ws property happened.
Regarding the second question,  the sort of damage most commonly  caused  by a storm 
includes damage to rendering. So in my opinion  its possible that a storm could cause the 
sort of damage claimed for in this case.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to Mr Ws 
pebbledash rendering.  In deciding this, I usually rely on expert evidence.  Coveas  surveyor 
noted that the timber frame was rotten and said plasterboard had been put on the timber 
frame and rendered  over whereas plasterboard shouldnt be used underneath render 
Ref: DRN77493412externally. He said where the timbers were  rotten, water had got in and made the 
plasterboard wet, so it had just fallen  off. 
Mr W strongly disputes that the timber frame was rotten  and the plasterboard already damp 
before the storm. He said the plasterboard became  wet after being rained  on later. He also 
said if the timber  and plasterboard  had been  in the condition described by Coveas  surveyor,  
thered have been evidence of damp in his front room and there wasnt any.
Covea only has to show that on the balance  of probabilities (in other words it is 51% likely) 
there was an existing problem and/or that a storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.  I 
note what Mr W says about  there being no evidence of damp  inside his property but in my 
view that doesnt  conclusively  prove  that the timber and plasterboard  were  in good condition  
before the storm. I think the evidence from the surveyors report indicates that a storm may 
have highlighted  a pre-existing  design  fault (pebble  dashing being fixed to plasterboard) and 
wear and tear (the rotten timber to which the plasterboard was fixed), rather than having 
been the dominant cause of the damage. 
Overall, Im not persuaded it has been  sufficiently shown that the damage to the pebble-
dashing was caused by a peril covered by Mr Ws policy  as opposed to defective design 
and/or wear  and tear. So I think Coveas decision to decline his claim was fair and 
reasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr Ws policy does not specifically exclude faulty design. But its for Mr W to 
show that the damage was caused by a peril covered by his policy  rather  than for Covea to 
prove that an exclusion applies.  In this case I dont think Mr W has succeeded  in doing that.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7749341