K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained about the amount  Ageas Insurance  Limited paid to settle her motor  
insurance claim.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Mrs R was in an accident that wasnt her fault.  Ageas deemed her car a total loss. It offered 
her £5,693.83 to settle her claim for the cars loss. Mrs R didnt think  that was enough. She 
brought her complaint  to us. Our adjudicator thought Ageas had valued Mrs Rs car fairly. 
Mrs R didnt agree so her complaints been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it. 
I understand that Mrs R was concerned  that Ageas offer for the market value of her car 
wouldnt enable her to afford to buy a replacement. Its not the role of this service to value 
cars, instead we look to see whether  or not a business like Ageas has valued a car fairly.  
Like most motor policies Mrs Rs policy says that if her car is deemed a total loss Ageas  will 
pay her the cars market  value. And as a starting point to find that market value we look at 
the relevant trade guides for valuing second-hand cars. We find these reliable as theyre 
based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I find them more persuasive  than 
figures cars are advertised for, as those are often inflated to allow  for negotiation  and dont 
reflect the actual  sale price. 
The trade guides rarely agree on the precise  market value of a car, so we think the fairest  
way to find a cars valuation is to take an average figure from the relevant  guides. In this 
case Ageas  has paid Mrs R £5,693  to settle  her claim. That figure is higher than the average 
of the valuations given by the trade guides.  So I think  its a fair valuation. It follows  that I 
think Ageas  has handled  the claim reasonably and Im not going to direct  it to increase its 
settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7486014