K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance BPF) released the funds from his fixed sum loan agreement to the retailer  before 
his kitchen had been installed to his satisfaction  and after he had been  told by the retailer  
that the agreement had lapsed.
Background
Mr D was approved for a fixed  sum loan agreement with BPF in 2015 to acquire a kitchen to 
be supplied  and installed  by the retailer. He says that the kitchen wasnt  installed to a 
satisfactory standard and he was in discussions with the retailer regarding this. A report  had 
been completed and a number of further  actions were required. He says that although  BPF 
were able to access the report  to see the amount of work required to complete the kitchen, it 
still released the loan funds  to the retailer.
Mr D also says that in April 2017, before the funds  had been released by BPF,  the retailer  
wrote to him to say the finance agreement had lapsed and the debt had reverted  to the 
retailer. However over a year later BPF activated the agreement.
BPF says that Mr D entered into a finance  agreement with it in September  2015 to acquire a 
kitchen and the funds were  not drawn down for almost  three  years. It says the loan was 
activated on 3 August  2018, following a review  of a number of accounts where the retailer 
had said it was still waiting for payment despite the kitchens being completed. It says it 
discussed Mr Ds kitchen  with him on 23 February and he confirmed that the kitchen had 
been fitted and was functional and that the remedial work had been carried out or he had 
made do. It says a letter was sent to Mr D dated 20 July 2018 giving seven days notice of 
activation of the account but says the address it held on file was a previous address of 
Mr Ds which  he hadnt updated.  It says as no response was received from Mr D and the 
retailer hadnt had contact with him for a period  of time the loan was activated  and Mr D sent 
a welcome email. It says no satisfaction  note was required for this to happen.
BPF says that the retailer was incorrect in advising Mr D that the finance agreement  was no 
longer valid. It says Mr D raised  a complaint  about the activation of the loan and a final 
response letter was sent in October 2018. It says a claim was also opened under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s. 75) and contact  made  with the retailer  about this. 
However this claim was closed as the information  requested wasnt supplied. 
Our investigator explained that he was considering whether BPF acted reasonably  in 
activating the finance. This would include the actions of the retailer in regard to its role as 
credit broker. He said he couldnt hold BPF responsible for the service the retailer  had 
provided in regard to the kitchen but only in its capacity as credit  broker.
Our adjudicator accepted Mr D had raised  issues with the quality of the kitchen and said this 
could be raised  under  a separate s. 75 complaint. He said that Mr D had said on a call that 
the kitchen was functional but wasnt of the expected  quality. He later withdrew these 
comments and BPF gave him the opportunity to show what  hadnt  been completed but Mr D 
didnt provide this. Our investigator said that the retailer told BPF the kitchen was complete 
and he thought based on the information provided to BPF it was reasonable that it had 
released the loan funds  to the retailer. 
Ref: DRN73135832Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and so this complaint ahs been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about BPF activating the loan when Mr D says the kitchen he acquired 
wasnt complete. Mr D has raised  a number  of issues  regarding the quality of the kitchen 
however as our investigator has explained  these  issues could be raised as a s. 75 complaint. 
I understand a s. 75 claim was previously raised  and then closed  but this would  need  to be 
raised again and investigated before we could consider it. Therefore my decision is 
regarding the actions taken by BPF in activating the loan.
Mr D entered into the finance agreement in 2015.  It was activated in August 2018. I have 
looked at the information  provided with the agreement and this says that the credit  will be 
provided when  the loan is approved and a signed agreement received or when  the retailer  
has supplied  the goods or service, if this is later. I understand that Mr D doesnt accept that 
the kitchen was complete when the funds were released due to the remedial work that was 
still required.
While I sympathise with Mr D, and note the amount  of work listed  in the inspection reports, I 
do not find that BPF acted unreasonably  by releasing the funds. I say this because at the 
time of the release,  the goods  had been  supplied. I understand there was remedial work still 
required and that this would take time but the goods  had been  supplied and the retailer  had 
the account listed as one for which the kitchen had been completed but payment not 
received.
I have listened  to the call that took place on 23 February.  I note Mr Ds comments  about  this 
call and that he wasnt expecting this. He says on this call that he was making do with the 
kitchen and had used his own builders. He was asked if he needed  any help with the kitchen 
and retailers and said reports  were  carried out but does  then confirm  that the kitchen was 
functioning but was below  the expected quality. Due to issues with his security  questions 
and Mr D being at work  further discussion wasnt possible.
Therefore, on balance, given the information received by BPF in regard to the kitchen I do 
not find it unreasonable that it started the process  for the release of the funds. 
Mr D has also noted the information he received from the retailer  about the loan no longer 
being valid. BPF has explained  this is incorrect. Given  this information was provided after the 
agreement was entered into I do not find that I can hold BPF responsible  for this 
misinformation. 
Overall, I do not find that BPF did anything wrong  by releasing the funds for the loan. It has 
explained Mr Ds options in regard to making a s.75 claim due to the quality of the kitchen 
which I also find reasonable.
Ref: DRN73135833My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7313583