K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Zuuma  Finance  Limited  (Zuuma) are refusing to pay to repair a car he 
has on finance with them despite the fault being there from the beginning.
background
In October  2017 Mr G took receipt  of a used car. The car was first registered in 2011 and 
had completed slightly  over 80,000 at the point of supply. Mr G financed  the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with Zuuma. 
But the car broke down in June 2018.  The garage  said there was damage to the engine  that 
they suspected was caused by a fault with the timing chain tensioner.  The damage would 
cost £3,400 to put right so Mr G asked Zuuma to cover the cost.
He explained  that, whilst  the warranty had now expired, he had taken the car to the 
dealership during the warranty period and been told there was nothing wrong with it. He said 
hed now discovered  there was a known manufacturing defect with the chain tensioner that 
should have been resolved before he was given the car. He said the default had resulted in 
lawsuits being raised in America  and he thought  it would be fair if Zuuma recognised this 
and covered the cost of the repair.
But Zuuma  disagreed.  They  said that prior to selling the vehicle the dealership had arranged 
for an independent inspection  of the car and this hadnt identified any issues  apart from a 
problem with static  gear selection that needed some attention. They didnt have  a record that 
Mr G had returned the car within the warranty period. They  suggested that if he had, and a 
diagnostic had been performed, and no issues had been identified, it may explain why 
nothing was listed. They did note that the MOT  had been passed  and no vehicle recalls were  
listed on the MOT. They  noted that at the time of failure  Mr G had completed 6,720 miles in 
the car and they said they could  find no evidence of any UK recall  for the make  and model  of 
car Mr G had. So they didnt think it would be fair to ask them  to take responsibility  for the 
repair as they suggested it wasnt a fault that was developing at the point of supply.
But Mr G disagreed and he referred his complaint  to this service. Our investigator took a look 
at the evidence. He said that given the amount of time Mr G had had the car for it was 
reasonable to expect  him to demonstrate that the issue had been  there  from the beginning 
and that Zuuma  were therefore  responsible  for rectifying it. But he didnt think  Mr G had 
been able to do that. He thought that if a fault was developing from the point of manufacture, 
as Mr G had suggested,  it would have shown itself before; especially given the generous 
mileage the car had now completed.  He considered the technical  bulletin provided by Mr G 
but as this was from 2013 he again thought it likely that if this car had been impacted by the 
issue in the bulletin, it would have  been most likely  to have failed  earlier. He noted  that whilst 
the garage had identified  faults with the vehicle they hadnt suggested the faults  were  there  
from the point of supply and he therefore  didnt think it would be fair to ask Zuuma to take 
responsibility.
But Mr G didnt agree.  He insisted there was evidence that this fault was a manufacturing 
fault that would have  been present at the point of supply and could have broken at any point 
thereafter and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN70525622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would  be fair to ask Zuuma to take responsibility for the vehicles failure. I 
know that will really disappoint Mr G so please  let me explain. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Zuuma is 
responsible. And because  I take account  of relevant law when deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable. On this basis if I thought  the car was faulty when supplied, Id think  it fair and 
reasonable to ask Zuuma to put this right. 
But Zuumas  responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Here Mr G suggests the car he took receipt of had an inherent fault. The chain tensioner 
wasnt adequate  and thats  what caused his car to fail. But Im not persuaded that its most 
likely this is the cause  of the problem. I think its more likely the car failed at a later point 
because:
the car had already completed more than 80,000 miles when Mr G took receipt of it. 
If there  was a manufacturing defect I think its most likely to have affected the vehicle 
before Mr G took receipt of it rather than in the proceeding, more limited,  time and 
mileage
Mr G completed  a reasonable mileage in the car and I think, had there been a 
problem, he would  most likely not have been  able to
if the problem  had been apparent earlier; within the warranty period, as Mr G 
suggested, I dont  think Mr G would  have been able to drive it for as long as he did. I 
think its reasonable to suggest a timing issue would create noticeable and quite 
serious issues once  it had raised  its head
the technical bulletin was produced in 2013  and if Mr Gs car had been  impacted by 
that issue I think its reasonable  to suggest  the damage would have been most  likely 
to occur earlier
the independent inspection carried out prior to sale didnt identify any problems and I 
think its most likely  it would  have, if the problem was present at the point of supply
Mr G has referred  us to a previous decision made  by this service.  But each case has to be 
considered on its own merits  and, having reviewed  that case, I can see the facts of the case 
were different. For instance;  the car was new on receipt.
So having  taken all the issues into account I dont think it would be fair to ask Zuuma  to take 
any further action.
Ref: DRN70525623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052562