K820x#14complaint
Miss C and Ms S have complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited delayed  in 
sorting out a claim under her motor policy, that Miss C made  when her car was damaged in 
an accident by another  driver.
Ms S is a named driver  on Miss Cs policy.
background
Miss C told Advantage  she had been involved in an accident on 8 August 2017 where the 
other driver reversed into her car. The other drivers insurers  delayed telling Advantage if 
their insured  was at fault for causing  the accident  until 5 September 2017. 
During this time Advantage arranged the repair of Miss Cs car and ensured she didnt have 
to pay her excess given the fact that the other  driver had admitted the accident was their 
fault.
Miss C then bought  a new car but she was unhappy with the premium Advantage wanted to 
charge her. So she cancelled her policy and Advantage charged her a cancellation fee. 
However, Advantage delayed in asking the other  drivers insurer  to refund its costs in 
repairing Miss Cs car. This didnt occur until 28 June 2018.  So this meant  when Miss C was 
applying for a new policy with another insurer, her insurance record showed  she had an 
open claim, which obviously increased  the premium. Advantage paid Miss C £75 
compensation for its delay.
Despite the claim then being closed  as non-fault claim  on Miss Cs insurance record, Miss 
Cs new insurer didnt refund all she was expecting as it increases the premium even if a 
claim was a non-fault claim. 
So Miss C complained to Advantage.  It said it had done all it was supposed to do and it 
wasnt responsible  for anything Miss Cs new insurer hadnt done.
Miss C remained  dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think  
Advantage needed to do anything more. Miss C didnt agree so her complaint has been  
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
In this decision I can only consider what Advantage did wrong and how it then sought to put 
things right. I cant consider what Miss Cs new insurer did or didnt do. Thats  for Miss C to 
complain direct to them about.  And then see how matters progress from there. However, 
very often  even non-fault accidents  can change the risk profile causing insurers to increase 
premiums. Much depends on each insurers internal underwriting guidelines. 
Its very clear to me Advantage delayed recouping its costs of repairing Miss Cs car and 
then correctly ensuring a non-fault  accident  was recorded on her insurance record. Its 
Ref: DRN78787892apologised for that. Its also paid Miss C £75 compensation, which  I consider  to be adequate  
compensation for her trouble and upset.
Crucially it provided Miss C with a letter to explain matters to her new insurer so that Miss 
Cs new premium could  be adjusted  accordingly. The fact that her new insurer didnt do this 
to Miss Cs satisfaction isnt a matter for Advantage to deal with, its a matter for Miss Cs 
new insurer to deal with. And from Miss Cs correspondence, this appears to be the main 
issue, which she is complaining about.  But I consider Advantage did what  I would have 
expected it to do, which was supply Miss C with the appropriate letter to show her new 
insurers. Therefore, I dont think it needs to do anything  further  with respect  to this.
Theres one final issue namely the fact that when Miss C bought  a new car she wasnt 
satisfied with the premium  quoted by the broker affiliated with Advantage. Its for this reason 
that Miss C went to her new insurer. It does  seem the premium quoted to Miss C might have 
been affected by the delay in sorting  out her claim.  However, Advantage told us it cant now 
reconstitute that quote. But I think it doesnt  matter that much since  Miss C went to a new 
insurer in any event.  Miss C was consequently  charged a cancellation charge which given 
she was cancelling  her policy  mid-term was appropriate bearing  in mind the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
So whilst Advantage made mistakes, I think its done enough  to put things  right.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878789