K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has rejected her claim under 
her travel insurance policy when she and her family couldnt  take a flight together because 
one of the family members didnt have a valid visa.
background
Miss C had booked a trip abroad with her family,  leaving the UK on 7 January 2019. The 
destination country required a visa for each traveller. Miss C arranged these two months 
before the travel  date. Unfortunately when they arrived  at the airport on the day of travel, 
Miss C was told that her sons  visa wasnt valid as the passport number was incorrect.  
Miss C was told that a new application could take 24 hours. She wasnt  able to leave her son 
behind, so the family missed their trip. Miss C contacted IPA to claim for their lost travel 
costs, but was told that visa related issues werent  covered  by their policy. IPA referred her 
to the cancellation section  of her policy which says as follows:
Section A - Cancellation or curtailment  charges
What is covered
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion  only of any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including  excursions up to £250) and other  pre-paid 
charges which  you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion  
only of any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if
a) Cancellation of the trip or one-way trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b) The trip is curtailed before completion  as a result of any of the following events:
1. The death,  bodily  injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) Any person  who you are travelling or have arranged  to travel with
c) Any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) Your close relative
e) Your close business associate.
2. You or any person,  who you are travelling or have arranged  to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have  arranged  to travel  
with (which qualifies for payment under current United  Kingdom redundancy payment 
legislation, and at the time of booking the trip or oneway trip there was no reason to 
believe anyone would  be made redundant).
4. You or any person  who you are travelling or have arranged  to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed  Forces, Territorial  Army,  Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised  
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons,  provided  that the cancellation 
or curtailment could not reasonably have  been  expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip.
5. The Police  or other authorities  requesting  you to stay at or return  to your home due 
to serious damage  to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen  trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
So IPA said that unfortunately cancellation by reason  of a failure to have a necessary  visa 
wasnt covered by her policy.
Ref: DRN71493382Miss C says that visa related issues arent mentioned in the section that says what isnt 
covered, and thinks that they should be. She wasnt satisfied with IPAs  rejection of her claim 
and so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that an incorrect passport number for Miss Cs son which 
prevented him from being able to travel  was an avoidable scenario (referring  to clause (a) of 
the policy section  Ive quoted above), and wouldn't be considered as a valid claim under the 
policy. So he didnt consider that IPA had done anything wrong in declining  her claim.
Miss C accepts that the error was her fault. But shes concerned  that theres nothing in the 
terms and conditions of the policy that says visa Issues arent covered. She feels  this is 
something that should be changed so that families know  where they stand. She wanted  her 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the matters been  referred  to me to make  
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss C accepts that it was her mistake that led to her son not having a valid visa to allow  him 
to travel.  But she feels that the policy should make it clear that this is the case.
Ive looked at Miss Cs policy,  and it does in fact make it clear  that the inability to travel  
because of the absence of a visa isnt covered. The wording is to be found in Section P of 
the policy, and says as follows:
What is not covered  (applicable to all sections of cover)
3. Claims arising directly or indirectly  from:
c) Denied  boarding due to your drug use, alcohol or solvent  abuse or your inability to provide 
a valid passport, visa or other documentation  required by the public transport operator  or 
their handling  agents.  (my emphasis added).
So I think Miss Cs complaint fails for two reasons. Firstly, not having  the necessary visa isnt 
one of the specified grounds upon which  a claim can be made  under the cancellation 
section. And secondly,  the exclusion quoted  above,  which applies to all sections  of the 
policy, specifically excludes  claims arising  from these circumstances. 
Miss C has asked that we might  at least consider reimbursement of the unused travel for the 
three family members who didnt travel but who did have  valid visas.  I cant require IPA to 
settle any such claim as the cancellation  of their trip wasnt in my view necessary or 
unavoidable as a result  of any of the events  listed  in cancellation section of the policy.
So whilst I have great sympathy with Miss C and her family  who missed out on a trip they 
had doubtless all been looking forward to, I cant say that IPA has been unfair or 
unreasonable in declining  her claim in these circumstances, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything. 
Ref: DRN71493383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7149338