K822xcomplaint
Mr R and Mr G complain about charges  applied to their mortgage  account by Cheltenham & 
Gloucester Plc. Mr R has brought the complaint to us. He says Cheltenham & Gloucester 
should refund charges applied to the account and the refund should be paid to him not to the 
mortgage account.
background 
Mr R and Mr G took out a joint mortgage with Cheltenham & Gloucester. The account fell 
into arrears and fees were  applied.  Cheltenham  & Gloucester started possession 
proceedings to recover the debt in 2008. The mortgage has been  on an interest  only basis  
since 2005. Mr R says that in 2012 he sold his beneficial interest in the mortgaged property 
to Mr G. 
Mr R contacted Cheltenham & Gloucester in 2018 when  he found out it had refunded about 
£1,400 to the mortgage account. Cheltenham  & Gloucester has confirmed this is a refund of 
arrears management  fees. Mr R says any refunds for charges applied before 2012 should  be 
paid to him directly  as he paid the charges. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
It was fair for Cheltenham & Gloucester to refund charges to the mortgage account.  Any 
dispute between  the account  holders  isnt a matter for us to consider.
Cheltenham & Gloucester had refunded  arrears  management charges  from 2009 with 
8% interest. 
Mr R and Mr Gs account went into litigation before 1 January 2009 due to the conduct of 
the account. So the regulators  guidance about  refunding fees between 2009 and 2016  
didnt apply. And as the fees werent applied as a result  of automatic capitalisation of 
arrears, the regulators guidance about  this didnt  apply either.
Cheltenham & Gloucester provided statements to show it had refunded charges  applied 
before 2009 in line with the regulators  guidance  and added  8% interest. 
The investigator said Cheltenham & Gloucester hadnt make  errors when identifying and 
refunding charges. It offered  £100 compensation for delays in responding to Mr R and the 
investigator said this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R said there is serious misconduct and hes relying on the ombudsman service  in seeking 
justice. 
Mr R said case  law requires Cheltenham  & Gloucester to calculate payment of arrears over 
the lifetime of the mortgage. He said it was illegal  to demand payment of a lump sum and 
payments to clear arrears over two years. So litigation fees applied by Cheltenham & 
Gloucester should  be refunded to him.
Mr R said its unfair  that fees applied  before  2012 should be refunded  to the account. He 
said he paid the fees. And Mr G now has the beneficial interest in the property and will 
benefit from the refund. 
Ref: DRN73908752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr R has brought complaints to us about  other  accounts with Cheltenham & Gloucester and 
other providers in the same banking group. I should make it clear that in this decision Im 
only dealing  with complaints about  Mr R and Mr Gs joint mortgage  account with Cheltenham 
& Gloucester. 
what charges should be refunded?
Cheltenham & Gloucester  refunded about  £1,360  to Mr R and Mr Gs mortgage account in 
early 2018.  This was a refund of arrears management charges applied  since  January 2009, 
plus interest. This is consistent  with the regulators guidelines. 
Cheltenham & Gloucester  also refunded some charges  applied  before 2009 with interest  at 
8% (about £930). 
Cheltenham & Gloucester  says charges  related to litigation  were properly applied to the 
account. It says legal action was taken  because of the conduct of the account.  It provided 
evidence to support  this.
Mr R says Cheltenham & Gloucester should also refund costs and charges related to 
litigation. He says it was illegal for Cheltenham  & Gloucester to ask for the arrears to be 
repaid as a lump sum or over a short  period. Were an informal dispute resolution  service. 
Only a court can say whether action taken by Cheltenham & Gloucester was illegal. A court  
issued an order for possession and orders about the payments to be made by Mr R and 
Mr G to repay the arrears.  
Cheltenham & Gloucester  confirmed Mr R and Mr Gs mortgage account hadnt  been 
affected by automatic capitalisation of arrears.  I havent seen anything  to suggest this is 
incorrect.
Cheltenham & Gloucester  provided evidence to show  the charges that were applied  to the 
account. Its explained why charges were  or were  not  refunded  and provided  calculations 
of the refunds and interest. I havent seen anything to suggest it made an error. So I wont  be 
requiring it to refund further charges.  
how should the charges be refunded?
Mr R says any refund of charges applied before 2012 should be paid directly  to him. He says 
he paid the charges. Mr R says he reached an agreement with Mr G in 2012 about  the 
beneficial ownership  of the property  which means he wont benefit from the refund if its paid 
to the mortgage  account. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said. But any agreement  between Mr R and Mr G about how 
their assets  are shared is for them to determine. As the charges were applied  to the 
Ref: DRN73908753mortgage account, I think its fair that Cheltenham & Gloucester makes the refunds to the 
mortgage account.
Cheltenham & Gloucester  offered £100 compensation for delays in responding to Mr R. I 
think this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find Cheltenham  & Gloucester Plcs  
offer to pay £100  to Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390875