K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  applies the policy 
excess on their private medical insurance polices.
background
Mr and Mrs W increased their policy excesses  at renewal in September  2017. They think  
AXA did a poor job of explaining how the excesses would be applied,  in particular that they 
might reduce  their total outpatient cover.
AXA accepted it could have better explained  how the excess  would be applied both in initial 
discussions and after renewal when  Mr and Mrs S queried this. But it was satisfied the 
excesses had been applied correctly, in line with the policy  terms and conditions.  It also 
offered to remove the excesses completely back to the policy renewal in 2017. But Mr and 
Mrs W didnt want to do that because it would mean  paying a higher premium and they 
would be worse off financially.
Mr and Mrs W asked  us to look into their concerns.  But the investigator ultimately concluded 
that AXA hadnt done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs W disagree, the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Insurance policies  will generally carry excesses and limits and the first thing I need  to decide 
is whether they were  clearly explained  to Mr and Mrs W. As Mr and Mrs W point out in 
relation to the concerns  theyve asked us to look at, ideally  this shouldve been  done before 
they decided to increase their excesses at renewal.
The policy terms and conditions explain how excesses work in general  and include an 
example:
If a policyholder has chosen to have an excess then this will be taken  off the amount 
covered by the policy for the first claim for each person in each year.  
It may take several  claims before the full amount of the excess is paid. But once the 
full amount has been paid in a year AXA wont  deduct any further excesses from 
subsequent claims.
If the claim was for treatment that has a limit AXA will apply the limit before it takes 
the excess off.
If the claim was covered for £800  and the excess  was £100 then AXA would pay 
£700.
In Mr and Mrs Ws case, at renewal in 2017,  they elected to have a £2,000 and £500 excess 
respectively. What they seem most unhappy  about  is the application of the third point set out 
above. That is, that although  their outpatient  benefit  is £3,000  this will be reduced by the 
amount of their excess if their first claim (and any subsequent claims up to the value of the 
excess) is for outpatient treatment. So, assuming  Mr and Mrs W only ever make  outpatient  
claims, AXA will pay a maximum outpatient benefit  of £1,000  and £2,500 respectively. But if 
Ref: DRN75654742they claim for a greater  amount  than their excesses under  other sections of the policy first, 
and claim for outpatient treatment later on then they will get the full £3,000  outpatient benefit.
There seems  no dispute that the above  scenario regarding the effect  of the excesses on the 
outpatient benefit wasnt explained  explicitly during the renewal phone call between  AXA and 
Mr and Mrs W. But this method  of calculation wasnt something new that was introduced  at 
renewal in 2017. And the person Mr and Mrs W spoke with probably wouldnt have realised 
this was such an important factor to them  presumably Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have known, 
when planning  their renewal, how much theyd likely need to use the outpatient cover in the 
coming year. So Im not convinced  this should  have been explained  explicitly  during the 
phone call.
But even if I did think this shouldve been  made clearer  I dont think  AXA needs to do 
anything to put things right. I say this because AXAs calculations indicate, given the claims 
made since the 2017 renewal, that Mr and Mrs W havent lost out financially by increasing 
their excesses. I dont know what happened  at the 2018 renewal but Mr and Mrs W raised 
this complaint before then so knew at that point how the excesses  would be applied and 
couldve used this knowledge to decide  what  excesses to set at that renewal. I appreciate 
they say, given their circumstances, that they cant change  insurers so I think  its worth 
pointing out that most  private medical  insurers will apply the excess in a similar  way to 
benefits that carry an annual limit.   
As AXA explains, choosing a higher excess reduces the policy premium. And it wouldnt be 
fair to expect  the same £3,000 maximum benefit  for outpatient treatment when a 
policyholder has paid a lower premium. Thats why the terms and conditions say that if a 
claim was for treatment that has a limit then AXA will apply the limit before  it takes  the 
excess off. Im satisfied AXA has applied the excesses appropriately  in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7565474