K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that MBNA Limited  didnt  tell her they would complete a credit search if she 
wanted to lift the internal restriction on her credit  card account.
background
In July 2018, Mrs S had a conversation with MBNA about her ability  to make payments on 
her credit card. She explained  that shed just returned to work  from maternity  leave, so shes  
able to make  higher  payments than she had been  more regularly now. She said she had cut 
up the credit  card, wasnt going to use it anymore  and planned  to reduce the balance. She 
then planned to take out a loan to consolidate the debt.
MBNA said that they could place an internal restriction on the credit  card,  which meant  she 
couldnt spend on the card anymore, ensuring the balance would decrease  so long as she 
maintained her monthly payments.  Mrs S agreed  to this at the time.
When Mrs S spoke  to MBNA  about removing the restriction later on, they said they would 
need to carry  out a credit search. Mrs S complained, as she wasnt told this at the time she 
agreed to the restriction. MBNA agreed that she wasnt told this information and paid her £40 
as a goodwill  gesture.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into things and said that, 
in her view,  MBNAs  offer of £40 to put things right was fair.
Mrs S disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the conversation between Mrs S and MBNA that took place in July 2018. 
During this phone conversation, Mrs S was quite  clear that she had cut up her credit card as 
she didnt plan to use it anymore. She also said that her aim was to reduce the balance as 
much as possible, and build  up her credit score before  repaying  the final balance with a 
consolidation loan.
When MBNA offered  to place the internal restriction on the credit card,  Im satisfied they did 
this with the intention of helping Mrs S with her objectives, and to prevent her getting into 
any financial  difficulty, or having any negative  information recorded on her credit file. Mrs S 
did say that shed already cut up the card and so wouldnt be spending on it. But I dont 
consider it was unreasonable for MBNA  to offer the extra precaution  of the restriction, given 
what Mrs S had told them.
However, Mrs S is right when she says that MBNA didnt let her know that in order to remove  
the restriction on her account,  they would need  to carry out a credit search. MBNA did say 
that putting the restriction on the account wouldnt  have an impact  on her credit  score,  but 
there was no discussion  about what would happen should she want  to remove it. Given  the 
information Mrs S had told MBNA during  the call, Im not persuaded they needed to inform  
her that they would carry out a credit  search if she wanted the restriction  removed. Mrs S 
clearly did not intend to use the card again, and I think  its reasonable that MBNA assumed 
the restriction would remain  in place on the card until the balance had been repaid.
Ref: DRN71641812I agree  in hindsight,  it may have been useful for Mrs S to know  about the credit search, as 
she has since asked to remove  the restriction on the account. But given everything MBNA 
knew at the time the restriction was put in place, Im not persuaded theyve done anything  
wrong by not providing this information  to Mrs S. They  cant be expected to provide  
information about every possible eventuality that may happen down the line, and Im 
satisfied that at the time, MBNA were trying  to help Mrs S, to ensure she stayed out of 
financial difficulty.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7164181