K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about the condition  of a vehicle he acquired and was financed  by Mallard
Leasing Limited  (Mallard).
background
I set out the background  to Mr Gs complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
In July 2018, Mr G acquired a vehicle  with a hire purchase finance agreement  provided 
by Mallard. The monthly instalments  were for £99.98 over a period of 47months  with a 
final payment, and option to purchase of £274.58.
Mr G says he first started to experience problems with the van around 4-5 weeks  after he 
acquired it. He says the van wouldnt go into gear and so he took it to a garage to look into 
it. The company said the gearbox had the wrong  oil in it so they replaced the oil. Mr G paid
£93.90 for a transmission oil change as shown in the invoice, dated 23 August 2018, 
he provided.
Unfortunately, the problems persisted.  Mr G had a warranty  for the vehicle,  which ran from 
July 2018 to November  2018. This required him to obtain permission from the claims team 
to obtain a professional diagnosis and send it to them with them  with proof of the last 
service and a copy of the MOT.
Mr G took the vehicle  to a professional third party  on 28 August 2018. They stripped 
the gearbox and advised  him of the following:
Remove transmission and strip, rear bearing  broke up and caused  damage to end casing, 
all bearings are pitted. 3rd & 4th gear hub and sleeve worn. 1st and 2nd hub and sleeve  
worn, 3rd gear worn,  vehicle requires recon transmission with new oils and fluids.
The gearbox has failed  due to the end bearing failure; bearing has broken up and 
caused damage to other  working parts.
The third party reported that the van required a new recon transmission, oils and fluids, a 
clutch kit and, under a revised invoice, a dual mass  flywheel. The invoices ranged from a 
cost of £1713.36  to £1996.80 including VAT and labour. The invoices also recorded the 
current mileage at 118,000.  The vehicle was then held in storage at the third party.
Ref: DRN78120352Mr Gs warranty company authorised an independent DEKRA  report, which  was carried  
out on 10 September  2018.  The report indicated a current mileage of 117,600. The 
warranty company declined the claim based  on engineers findings within the DEKRA 
report. It said:
In the engineers opinion, being based  on evidence written, reported and observed during 
todays inspection of a transmission unit stated to have been removed from the vehicle, 
the following  can be concluded. Todays  inspection  didnt  identify any failed component, 
however, all of the visible taper bearings  and bearing tracks show  wear and tear. We are 
of the opinion therefore that the reported transmission noise has been  caused by service  
wear
and deterioration  of the components over the life of the vehicle  and wouldnt be considered  
a sudden failure.
Mr G then received an email  by the third party garage to advise him the damage  to the 
gears; hub and sleeve were such,  that a new reconditioned gearbox would be needed. In 
their opinion, just replacing  the bearings  would  lead to further damage.  They estimated 
the cost at £3850 excluding VAT,  labour and the cost of a new clutch.
Mr G was very unhappy at being left in this position and so he complained  to Mallard.
In their final response of 26 September 2018,  they offered  Mr G a choice of two 
options. They said he could either:
1. Return the vehicle  to the supplier for inspection, with this option they would require 
Mr G to arrange for the dismantled part to be reassembled beforehand; or
2. Get the work carried out by the third party where the vehicle was currently held 
and they would agree to fund part of the costs, specifically:
£316.80 as a goodwill gesture by the supplier
£200.00 as a goodwill gesture by Mallard
And Mr G would need to pay for the balance of the repair.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr G asked this service to look into things for him.
Our adjudicator spoke  with Mallard and it agreed  to carry  out the necessary repairs at no 
cost to Mr G, but he still wanted to reject the vehicle.  He explained  he had to borrow a van 
to use for work and still had to pay the storage costs of the vehicle at the third party  
repairer as it had been there so long.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mallard had acted fairly  or reasonably and so she asked them  
to:
 Refund Mr Gs finance instalments from August  2018 for the time he had been  
unable to use the vehicle
 Refund £93.90 for the transmission oil change
 Pay for all the repairs to the vehicle to rectify the faults within the gearbox
 Pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused Mr G.
Ref: DRN78120353But, she didnt ask Mallard to pay the storage fees for the vehicle whilst at the third 
party garage awaiting repair.  She felt this was Mr Gs choice, and as she had asked  
for all the monthly instalments to be refunded,  she thought  this was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr G accepted the adjudicators findings.  Although  he initially  wanted  to reject the 
vehicle, he has paid the storage fees,  now has the vehicle in his possession, and has 
accepted repairs  to it instead.
But, Mallard didnt agree.  It didnt think any payments beyond the repairs  needed  were
morally or legally justified and so it asked for this review.
In my provisional findings, I considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done  so, I 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator but for slightly  different reasons and said I 
intended to amend the redress. Ill explain why.
Ive considered relevant law, regulators rules, guidance and industry standards,  and best 
practice. My role is to look at the matter as a whole and determine whether Mallard have  
been fair and reasonable in this matter and, if not, what  they should  do to put things right.  
I said where the information Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some  of it 
is here, I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Because Mallard has supplied the van under  a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality.  Vehicles  are of satisfactory quality if they are of 
a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage, and the price  paid. 
Id expect a second hand vehicle to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in order  to
uphold this complaint,  I said Id need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent  defect,  rather than general wear and tear.
I took into account Mr G purchased a van around  7 years old, and the hire purchase 
agreement states  it had 106,000 miles on the clock at that point. Mr G says he started to 
experience problems within four to five weeks of acquiring the van, and the invoices he 
has provided would support  that. There also appears to be some discrepancy  with the 
mileage noted.. If, as the evidence suggests,  Mr G had the van for a few weeks before 
the gearbox started to fail, and hes been unable to drive it since, it seems  difficult  to see 
how he has travelled  11,600 miles  in it. This is a concern because the mileage detailed 
on the hire purchase  agreement is for 106,000,  dated July 2018, and the mileage noted in 
August 2018,  and again on the DEKRA report in September 2018,  is 117,600.  Mr G also 
says he only travelled around  1000 miles before he experienced these  issues.  Which, 
again, contradicts  the evidence of actual  mileage.  
On balance, I said it seems unlikely to me that Mr G could have travelled quite so 
extensively with a faulty gearbox.
I looked carefully at the inspection  report and considered its findings.  Whilst I would expect 
there to be some wear and tear on a vehicle of this age, it must still be supplied suitable 
and fit for purpose. Mr G hasnt been able to drive the van since August 2018.  The DEKRA 
report suggests the vans problems were  not a sudden  failure  but one of 
deterioration... But Im not persuaded the mechanical failure  of the gearbox is 
Ref: DRN78120354something that should have reasonably  occurred  within a few weeks  of Mr G acquiring the 
van. And based  on the independent  report,  on balance I find it more  likely than not the fault 
was inherent at the point of supply. Its encouraging that Mallard are no longer disputing  
this and have  agreed to repair the van to a satisfactory standard  but, disappointingly,  they 
dont seem to have  recognised the impact this has had on Mr G.
I think its important to say the role of this service is to look at the merits of a complaint 
between a consumer  and a business. Should  we decide that something  has gone wrong 
we would ask the business  to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have  been  if the problem hadnt occurred and look to 
provide redress for trouble  and upset, or financial  loss, the consumer has suffered.
Mr Gs provided a breakdown of the costs he feels he has incurred since  he was unable to 
use the van. These include,  but are not limited  to, hire costs for a replacement  van; oil 
transmission change  costs; a tank of diesel  still remaining in the van he cant use;
storage costs with the third party repairer; and monthly finance payments for a van he 
couldnt use.
As our adjudicator has already said, whilst I can compensate for the considerable  
trouble and upset this matter has caused, I can only refund out of pocket costs where 
there is a receipt  or other supporting evidence, such as an invoice.
Mallard may feel additional costs are not morally or legally  due.  My role doesnt  permit 
me to make  moral or legal determinations,  but rather what is fair and reasonable redress  
in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
I said from what Id seen  that Mr G had taken  every reasonable  step to resolve this 
matter. When  the vehicle  failed, he first contacted the company  who supplied the 
warranty. He followed their instructions and took the van to a reputable  professional. The 
gearbox was then disassembled for inspection and he provided  the claims department 
with all the necessary  documentation. When they rejected the claim, he pursued  the 
dealership and then the finance  company in an attempt to get the vehicle repaired.
Both parties  failed to take responsibility and only offered part-payment  towards repair, 
with Mr G being asked to foot the rest of the bill. This was at a time when Mr G was 
already struggling  to balance managing his business, sourcing transportation and 
attempting to resolve the issue with the vehicle he was still paying for.
I considered rejection of the vehicle as a fair an immediate remedy,  but as Mallard  have 
agreed to carry out the repairs,  Im persuaded its only fair and reasonable to allow  them 
to do so. But, given the history of whats gone  on here, I do recognise the repairs  may 
not ultimately be successful and could lead to an early  or subsequent failure of the van. 
If that is the case, my view is that Mr G should  be allowed to reject  the vehicle at that 
point.
Mr G hasnt had use of the van since August 2018 and has had to hire an alternative one 
in order to get to work. I said I didnt think it reasonable that Mr G should  pay twice,  that is 
to say once for the van he doesnt  have use of and again for the hire of one he needs  to 
use instead. So, Im persuaded  its reasonable that Mallard refund all the monthly 
payments since August  2018 up until they repair the van to a satisfactory standard  and the 
matter is settled.
Ref: DRN78120355Mr G has asked to be reimbursed for the storage costs whilst the van was in the garage.  
Our adjudicator didnt  agree to these costs. I listened to the telephone conversation  
between Mallard and Mr G of 20 September 2018.  In it Mallard  is clear  they havent  
authorised the storage or the previous investigation. I appreciate  Mr G had taken this 
action
as the warranty  company  had requested it, but I said I cant  hold Mallard  responsible for 
the request of the warranty company  - although I do appreciate Mr G was taking the 
reasonable step of making  a claim under the warranty and following their instruction. 
I understand Mr G has now recovered  the van from storage and has it in his possession.  
But as its still either not driveable, or possibly even dangerous to do so, I said Im also 
going to ask Mallard to collect it at a mutually  convenient time to make  the necessary  
repairs, but at no cost to Mr G.
Mr G has also provided an invoice for the oil transmission change  at a value of £93.90. 
This was directly related to the faulty  gearbox and so I said Im persuaded Mallard should 
refund him for these  costs.
I appreciate Mr G says theres a full tank of diesel in the van, but as he hasnt provided  a 
receipt, Im not able to ask Mallard to refund this cost. However, as Mr G hasnt used the 
van, Id expect to see the same  amount  of fuel in it when Mallard collect as when they 
return it.
Mr G has explained  to this service how the not having the van has affected him in his 
ability to carry out his occupation, and the financial  stress of paying for both the failed 
vehicle and a replacement. Hes also described  his personal health position  and how this 
situation has caused him further distress and inconvenience.
I said Im persuaded Mallard could  and should have recovered the van and taken steps 
to repair  it to a satisfactory standard much earlier. And that in failing to do so theyve 
caused Mr G trouble  and upset. In the circumstances  of this complaint, Im persuaded 
the redress for this should be increased.
I said in my provisional decision I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint against
Mallard Leasing Limited. And Id be instructing  them to:
1.  collect  the vehicle  from Mr G at no cost to himself and carry out the required 
repairs to the vehicle  to a satisfactory  standard. If Mr G is dissatisfied or the repair  
fails, he should  be allowed  to reject  the vehicle;
2.  refund all monthly payments made  under the hire agreement  from August 2018 
until the repair is carried out satisfactorily;
3.  add 8% simple interest a year to those payments from the date they were made 
to the date of settlement;
4.  refund the oil transmission change costs  of £93.90; and
5.  pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused.
I explained this was a provisional decision because Id reached a slightly different 
conclusion to our adjudicator. This allowed  both Mallard and Mr G a further short  
period to make any final submissions. After which, Id make my final decision.
Ref: DRN78120356Both Mr G and Mallard accepted my provisional  findings. But, after doing  so, Mallard 
raised queries  with Mr G and then this service regarding repairing the vehicle to a 
satisfactory standard. Mallard  have since said the third party  has stripped down the 
gearbox and there are elements  missing or worn. So they asked who would be liable 
for those  repairs/reinstatement.
Mr Gs pointed out there are now further delays and feels  Mallard  are suggesting 
they intend to reassemble  the vehicle rather than repair it.
Its now time for me to make  my final decision on how I think this complaint should be 
resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having looked  at all the information  from both parties afresh, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as my detailed in my provisional  decision.
As both parties originally  accepted my provisional  findings, Im not entirely sure what point 
Mallard is raising when  it asks who is liable for the further repairs.  My provisional decision 
was very clear and based upon  the understanding Mallard had already agreed to repair  the 
vehicle to a satisfactory  standard. That, to me, means from its current  standard. So any 
reinstatement costs  if actually  necessary  in order to complete the repair  would be 
Mallards responsibility. 
The third party report said:
Remove transmission and strip, rear bearing  broke up and caused  damage to end casing, 
all bearings are pitted. 3rd & 4th gear hub and sleeve worn. 1st and 2nd hub and sleeve  
worn, 3rd gear worn,  vehicle requires recon transmission with new oils and fluids.
The gearbox has failed  due to the end bearing failure; bearing has broken up and 
caused damage to other  working parts.
It further reported that the van required a new recon transmission, oils and fluids, a 
clutch kit and under a revised invoices a dual mass  flywheel.
Mallard should therefore carry out all the necessary  repairs to ensure the van is fit for 
purpose. 
I should point  out once  again that I have  considered  rejection of the van. The issues  Mr 
Gs experienced started within  4-5 weeks of acquiring the van and they are 
fundamental to its functionality. In other words, he isnt able to drive  it.
Mallard agreed to repair  the van, and Mr G accepted  this. But Im making it very clear 
in this decision that if the repairs carried out are not satisfactory and Mr G is either 
unable to gain full use of the van, or if the repairs carried out subsequently fail, I will 
allow him at that point  to reject it.
Ref: DRN78120357For clarity,  repairing a vehicle to a satisfactory standard  means to carry out whatever 
repairs are necessary. Given that the third party  had already indicated issues  including, 
but not limited  to, the gearbox, a new recon  transmission, oils and fluids  being  suitable 
for the vehicle, the clutch kit and a dual mass  flywheel - these would be a starting  point 
for repairs. 
I also consider it reasonable that the van should undergo  a full assessment and service 
to ensure it is fit for purpose before being returned  to Mr G.
I appreciate that this has been a very frustrating time for Mr G and I thank him for his 
patience in dealing  with this matter. I understand this has caused him distress and 
inconvenience, and  in recognition of that Id encourage a swift resolution from Mallard  
to the repairs  required.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, to resolve  this complaint, I direct Mallard  Leasing Limited to:
1.  collect  the van from Mr G at no cost to himself and carry out all the required 
repairs to ensure  its of a satisfactory  standard and functional. If Mr G is 
dissatisfied, or the repair fails, he should be allowed to reject the van;
2.  refund all monthly payments made  under the hire agreement  from August 2018 
until the repair is carried out satisfactorily;
3.  add 8% simple interest a year to those payments from the date they were made 
to the date of settlement;
4.  refund the oil transmission change costs  of £93.90; and
5.  pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused.
If Mallard Leasing Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest under  3, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It 
should also provide Mr G with a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7812035