K822xcomplaint
Ms W has complained about the way DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company  Limited  
(DAS) dealt with a claim  she made  on her home  emergency policy. 
Ms Ws complaint was brought to us by her and her husband, Mr L, but for ease I will refer to 
their comments as Ms Ws.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. This is an extract from 
that decision: 
On 14 December 2018 Ms W made a claim on her policy with DAS because  her electric  
boiler had broken down. DASs engineer attended  the following day and said the PCB 
(printed circuit board) would need changing but wasnt able to get the boiler to start working 
again. DAS said this would cost £562.44  and that as Ms Ws policy limit was £500 she was 
asked to pay £62.44.
DAS told Ms W on 27 December 2018  that the parts wouldnt be arriving till the new year 
and offered her £60 for her to get heaters and told her her policy  had a £250 limit for 
alternative accommodation. 
The new PCB was fitted on 8 January 2019 but Ms W told DAS on 14 January 2019 that the 
boiler had failed again. DAS attended the following day and said there  was an issue with the 
heating element. It said as it was an old boiler  it would be difficult  to find replacement  parts.  
The engineer wasnt able to get the boiler to start working again  and said the boiler was 
beyond economic repair (BER). 
Ms W asked  a third party company to repair the boiler which they did at a cost of £1,487.54. 
She complained to DAS and said its diagnosis of the faulty PCB was wrong so that work was 
unnecessary. She said its engineers werent qualified  to repair  her boiler  and she was also 
unhappy with the delays  and said her and her husband  had the flu so having no heating 
didnt help. She said their electricity bill also increased as they had to use electric  heaters. 
She wanted DAS to pay her back the £1,487.54.
DAS didnt uphold  the complaint but paid Ms W £50 in compensation. It said it had made a 
mistake and the policy limit was £1,000  not £500  so paid Ms W the £62.44  back. It said this 
was in addition  to the £300 it had already paid to Ms W in February  2019  for the heaters  and 
alternative accommodation. It said replacing the PCB was necessary because  had it not 
done this it wouldnt  have been able to diagnose the problem with the heating elements- this 
didnt show before the PCB was replaced. But it stood  by its decision that the boiler was 
BER. 
Ms W didnt  agree and complained to us. Our investigator thought the complaint should  be 
upheld and that DAS should  pay Ms W £1,000 (the policy  limit) towards the cost of the boiler 
repairs plus interest. DAS didnt agree but said it would pay £437.66 which  is the balance 
between the £1,000 limit and the £562.44 it had already paid for the PCB. Ms W didnt  
accept this offer and the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN78678372my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ms Ws policy states that DAS will pay up to £1,000 (including VAT) for the call out charge, 
labour costs, parts and materials to help with an insured incident. The policy also covers up 
to £250 for alternative accommodation in case the home remains uninhabitable.  
DAS has already paid Ms W £300  for the heaters and the alternative accommodation as per 
her policy so I wont comment on this further. I note that Ms W hasnt cashed DASs 
additional £50 payment.
DAS accepted this was a valid claim so what I need  to consider is whether the PCB was 
correctly replaced which  would determine  whether DAS should pay the full £1,000  to Ms W 
or only the £437.66.
DAS said the boiler was BER. But it hasnt said why that was, other than that it was old and 
that finding parts would be difficult.  Ms W found  a third party company that was able to carry 
out the repairs. That company told us that the boiler  should last about  50 years (Ms Ws is 
30) and that it has the necessary parts to keep servicing these boilers.  Ms W has also 
provided a quote  for a new boiler  which shows she wouldve had to pay over £4,000 for a 
new gas boiler. She said the company  that provided  the quote  told her a gas boiler was her 
only alternative. The company that repaired the boiler also confirmed to us that a like for like 
replacement wasnt possible and the closest possible replacement  would  be a gas boiler or 
perhaps a more renewable energy. Based on this I dont think Ms Ws boiler was BER and 
that it was far cheaper to repair rather than to replace. But the fact that DAS agreed to pay 
£437.66 after the complaint came to us I think shows it has also now accepted  this. 
Ms W said changing the PCB was unnecessary  and it didnt repair  the fault which  was with 
the heating elements. DAS said had the PCB not been replaced it wouldnt have been  able 
to correctly diagnose that there was an issue with the elements- as this wasnt evident 
before the PCB was replaced. Other than what DAS has said (which came  from its 
engineers) Ive seen  no other expert evidence on this issue. Based on this I think, on 
balance, changing  the PCB was necessary.  And for that reason I think DAS can deduct its 
cost from the overall £1,000 limit.
Ms W said her electricity bill increased because she had to use inefficient fan heaters. I 
wont ask DAS to pay her for her increased bill as this isnt something  thats  covered  under 
her policy.  And I also note that DAS has already offered her £50 compensation which  I think  
would compensate her for her increased  bill. Also I think  she wouldve been without heating  
for a period  of time regardless of what DAS did so she wouldve incurred some of those  
costs in any event.
However, I agree with Ms W in that I think DAS shouldve recognised that this wasnt  a type 
of boiler its engineers could fully repair. I think it wouldve been reasonable for DAS to have 
referred Ms W to a specialist  repairer  (like the one she was able to find herself) rather  than 
declare the boiler BER when that wasnt the case.  I think this caused  Ms W unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience and I think for that DAS should pay her £150  compensation.
Ref: DRN78678373my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, Im considering upholding Ms Ws complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited  and asking it to:
Pay Ms W £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Pay Ms W £437.66 towards her boiler  repair.
developments
DAS has responded  to my provisional  decision and said it was happy to accept it. 
Ms W also responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. She made several  
points which  Ive summarised below:
She said DAS had no business  trying  to repair a boiler it didnt  understand or wasnt 
qualified to repair. The cost it incurred in trying to repair the boiler should be its 
responsibility. 
DAS was wrong to say the boiler  was BER. It wouldve  been  easy for it to find a suitably  
qualified engineer to inspect and repair it- like her and her husband ended up doing. This 
would have avoided  them being without heating for weeks while they were  both suffering 
with the flu. She has since been  diagnosed with a very serious  illness and being without 
heating wouldnt have  helped  her fighting  either the flu or her other  illness. 
If DAS were to pay £1,000 she would only be £487.54 out of pocket.  Instead  my 
provisional decision means she will be £899.88  out of pocket. This is grossly unfair.
If the PCB was faulty, replacing it shouldve allowed the boiler  to work but it didnt.
There was a delay  between having the new PCB installed  and her and her husband 
calling DAS out again to fix the boiler. This was because her husband undertook some 
checks himself  first before calling DAS out. DAS is interpreting  this as a second boiler 
failure but there was only ever one failure which DAS never fixed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to 
change any of the findings  I made in my provisional  decision.
Before I explain my reasons for doing  so, Id like to say how sorry I was to hear about 
Ms Ws health  problems and that I wish her a good  and speedy recovery. 
In my provisional decision I said DAS shouldve recognised  this was a boiler its engineers 
couldnt repair and should have referred  Ms W to a specialist  repairer.  So, I agree with 
Ms Ws point  above. 
I note Ms Ws comment that there was only one failure which  DAS never  managed to fix. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision,  there is no expert evidence  to say that 
changing the PCB was unnecessary.  The only expert evidence Ive seen is from DASs  
engineers who said that changing the PCB was necessary and that it was only after the PCB 
was changed  that a proper diagnosis could be made. Our investigator asked the third party 
company whether changing the PCB was necessary or not but they werent able to confirm 
Ref: DRN78678374either way. So, though  I note Ms Ws comments,  based on the expert  evidence  available, I 
think it is fair for DAS to deduct the cost of replacing  the PCB from the overall settlement. 
I accept Ms Ws comments that being without  heating over that time must  have  been  very 
difficult for her and her husband. But as I said in my provisional decision, I think DAS did 
what it was required to do under her policy when it provided her with heaters and when  it 
paid for alternative  accommodation. And as I already said she wouldve been  without  heating  
for a period  regardless  of DASs actions. 
I appreciate Ms W will be significantly  out of pocket as a result of this decision, but I am 
mindful of the fact that her policy  wouldnt  have  covered the full cost of repairs in any event- 
as it has a £1,000 policy  limit. Also,  as I said above, I think its fair and reasonable for DAS to 
deduct the cost of replacing the PCB from the £1,000  limit because, according to the only 
expert evidence available, this expense was necessary in order  to repair the boiler. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint against  DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited  and asking it to:
Pay Ms W £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. It 
must pay this within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms W accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on this amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.*
Pay Ms W £437.66 towards her boiler  repair plus 8% simple interest per year from the 
date she paid for her boiler to be repaired by the third party  company  to the date it pays 
her*. Ms W should provide evidence  (such as a receipt) regarding  the payment  made  if 
DAS requires this.
The above  is in addition to what DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  Company Limited has 
already paid Ms W. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
*If DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken  off. It 
should also give Ms W a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7867837