K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about what happened  when she visited  a branch of National Westminster  
Bank Plc to close an account. 
background
Mrs T went to NatWest  to close an account.  She told us about the extremely  poor service 
that she felt NatWests branch manager  offered on the day, including having no one 
available to direct  customers to the right desk, allowing a queue  of disgruntled customers  to 
build up, choosing to engage with her in an unhelpful and argumentative fashion  (although  
not with other upset  or complaining male customers)  unreasonably refusing to process  her 
requested transaction, and attempting to snatch her card.  Mrs T said that she thought  it was 
a shame that shed  been forced to move her account after over 40 years  with NatWest, but 
was glad that she would no longer have to engage with this branch.
NatWest said that there wasnt anyone  at the front desks  when Mrs T entered,  but the staff 
had only just stepped away, and those  desks were manned again within seconds. NatWest 
said that Mrs T had gone to desks at the rear of the banking hall, which were reserved for 
business transactions and large  cash transactions. It accepted that there  were  a number of 
customers waiting at the time, and that there was some tension. 
NatWest said that its branch manager had come  out to talk to the queue,  in an effort to ease 
tension. It thought  that this effort was partly  successful, but Mrs T remained unhappy. 
NatWest said that its branch manager approached the till when Mrs T was being served,  and 
she didnt deny trying  to take Mrs Ts card out of the machine.  NatWest  said that this was 
done because  Mrs T was seeking a service that wasnt  intended  for that till. NatWest  said 
that Mrs T wasnt  being asked to join a lengthy  queue, the branch manager had offered to 
handle her transaction. It was sorry that Mrs T had found the branch managers action, in 
seeking to take her card, offensive. 
NatWest said that it understood that Mrs T was in the process of closing her accounts with it. 
It said that it was clear that the banking relationship had broken down. It wouldnt tolerate 
any abuse, either physical or verbal,  of its staff. It has since told us that Mrs T has closed  
one of her accounts  with NatWest, but the other remains open.  Mrs T has told us shes 
keeping that account open  until her complaint is dealt with. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she did think  that the front desks  
were unmanned when  Mrs T arrived, but she also thought it was likely that staff returned to 
those tills very shortly after Mrs T took a picture of the empty desks. 
Our adjudicator said that Mrs T was aware  that the desks  at the rear of the banking  hall were 
reserved for particular transactions, other than the one Mrs T was seeking  to carry out. She 
thought Mrs T knew this, because shed  complained  about it in the past. But our adjudicator  
said that as there was no one at the front tills, she could appreciate why Mrs T would  go to 
the rear tills to be served. 
Our adjudicator said that it seemed as if the exchange between Mrs T and the branch  
manager was heated.  Our adjudicator said that neither  party felt heard, and that gave rise to 
potential miscommunication and misunderstandings. Mrs T believed  shed told the branch 
manager what transactions she wanted to do, so she thought she shouldve  been able to 
Ref: DRN72732782carry them out. The branch manager has said she didnt  know  what transactions Mrs T 
wanted to do. The branch manager  and Mrs T have given slightly  different versions of events 
about what happened when Mrs T was told she couldnt close  her account at that till. 
Our adjudicator said that she could agree that the service couldve been  better, but she 
didnt think that she could fairly say that the business should pay compensation. She noted  
that NatWest had apologised, and she thought that was reasonable and fair. 
Mrs T didnt  agree with that. She said that the bank manager was now saying that shed 
grabbed the managers wrist.  She said that wasnt true, and if shed assaulted the bank 
manager, then she was sure this wouldve  been mentioned in earlier correspondence. Mrs T 
was angry  that the bank manager  was stooping to outright lies to justify  her actions. 
Mrs T wrote to us, to say that no statement had been sought from the teller who served her 
on the day. She didnt accept that a thorough and fair assessment of her complaint had been 
done without evidence from this key witness. She said that the statements  given  by the 
branch manager  were  inconsistent, as one said shed taken the card,  another said shed 
reached to take the card. And the last statement included an allegation of physical  assault. 
Mrs T said that she hadnt grabbed the branch managers wrist, she had just touched her 
hand, while trying  to prevent the manager  grabbing for her card.  Mrs T denied that shed 
been either physically or verbally abusive. She said that we should  be requesting further  
items of evidence. And, given the serious nature of the allegations that had now been made, 
Mrs T wanted an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
Our service sent the branch managers original statement to Mrs T. Mrs T was concerned  
that the branch manager had mentioned  in that statement  that there had been previous 
incidents when  Mrs T had been verbally  abusive  to staff. She didnt think  that should  form 
any part of this complaint. NatWest  sent us a second witness statement  from the teller  who 
had served Mrs T. 
NatWest said it couldnt  share the CCTV taken on the day, because  it needed to protect the 
personal data of other customers  who were there. Mrs T said that she was raising this and 
other data protection breaches  with the Information  Commissioners Office. 
Our adjudicator forwarded the second witness statement to Mrs T, and also wrote to her to 
say that shed taken all of the evidence into account,  but still didnt think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Mrs T sent a detailed response, listing a number of what she felt were 
inconsistencies in what NatWests staff had said. This case was then passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its clear that Mrs T feels strongly  about the events that happened  on 22 June, and the 
service she received in the branch at that time.  And its also clear that her recollection of 
events isnt the same as those who have provided witness  statements from the branch. 
Ref: DRN72732783Mrs T has asked our service to watch the CCTV from the day. As many of Mrs Ts concerns 
focus on what was said rather than what was done (for example, whether or not she told the 
branch manager  why she was in the branch  when  they first spoke) I think that the CCTV 
probably wouldnt assist  with many of the issues in this case.  But I note that NatWest has 
said it wont provide  it, because of data protection  concerns for other customers  who were  
present that day. I also note that Mrs T has complained to the Information  Commissioners  
Office about this and other data protection legislation  breaches. So I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to comment here on those issues.
Mrs T has also said that she is extremely concerned  about  what she thinks  is a defamatory  
comment by the branch  manager, that she grabbed  the managers wrist while the manager 
was trying to remove her card. Mrs T says that this amounts  to an allegation of assault. She 
says that she didnt grab the managers wrist, she simply touched the branch manager while 
trying prevent her from taking her card. 
Im not an expert on criminal law. But its my understanding that the issue that Mrs T is 
concerned about,  that she grabbed rather than touched the branch  managers wrist,  wouldnt 
be likely  to mean that this incident turned into an assault by Mrs T. So I dont think  that this 
matter becomes more  serious because of that allegation.
I know that Mrs T is concerned that a number of points  which NatWest maintains now 
werent raised earlier in the process of resolving this complaint. But I dont think that means 
that branch staff are lying. I think its possible that the branch initially  sought to downplay  this 
incident, as a way of bringing this complaint to a close. 
Mrs T has also pointed  to what  she says are inconsistencies in what  the branch manager  
and the teller have  said happened on the day. These events happened  some time ago, and 
the tellers account  of events wasnt taken until more recently, so recollections may no longer 
be completely clear.  
Ive considered all the evidence  available  to me, and I dont think  its possible for me, on 
what Ive seen, ever to be completely sure about  what happened. 
But I do think that there is enough in what I have seen to decide, like our adjudicator,  that the 
service that NatWest gave to Mrs T on 22 June couldve been better. It is clear,  as our 
adjudicator noted,  that there  were  a number of unhappy customers  in the branch when 
Mrs T entered.  Both sides agree that a number of customers, as well as Mrs T, were upset. 
Its also clear  that Mrs T remained unhappy with how her transaction was dealt with. And the 
branch manager  hasnt  denied trying to take Mrs Ts card out of the machine. I think it was 
inadvisable for the branch  manager to seek to take a customers card in these 
circumstances. That seems unlikely  to assist with reducing tensions between  a customer 
and staff. 
I also note that Mrs T has accepted that shes previously been told that she shouldnt use the 
tills at the rear of the banking hall, as those are reserved for specific  transactions. Mrs T 
says that she doesnt  want  to be told where  she can and cant  carry out her transactions. But 
NatWest is free to arrange its banking hall how it thinks  best.  
Although I understand the points  Mrs T has made  about how this branch has chosen to offer 
its services, and I note that on both Mrs Ts evidence and the evidence of the branch 
manager, a number of other customers in the branch were  also unhappy with the service 
Ref: DRN72732784provided on that day, I cant  uphold Mrs Ts complaint on this basis.  Our service  doesnt 
have powers to tell banks  how to run their branches.  
Ive considered all the evidence  in this case carefully, and I do think that NatWests service  
couldve been better. But I simply  dont think that I can be sufficiently clear about what went 
wrong in this case, to decide that the fault lies wholly with NatWest. 
Mrs T wanted the branch manager to accept that shed  behaved  poorly, and to make  a 
personal apology.  But Id usually say that NatWest as a whole is responsible  for the 
behaviour of its staff.  And in this case,  I note that NatWest has already apologised. I think 
that provides a fair outcome in this case. For that reason, I dont think  this complaint  should 
be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7273278