K822xcomplaint
Ms B has complained about  Ageas Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that their agent 
concluded her car had been poorly maintained  and therefore turned down her motor  
breakdown insurance  claim. 
background 
Ms Bs car broke  down  on 12 November  2018 and she called Ageass agent  for assistance.
The recovery operator sent by the agent  believed the car had a flat battery, but they werent
happy to try and jump-start the car because of oil all over the engine. The recovery  operator
relayed their findings  to the agent and suggested  the problem with the oil was due to poor
maintenance of the car.
Because the fault was considered to be due to poor maintenance it was explained to Ms B
that under  the terms of the policy she wasnt covered and she would have  to pay the cost of
recovery (£366) and a call out charge (£90). Ms B declined  to pay either and disputed that
the car was poorly maintained.
A supervisor  later concluded Ms B didnt need  to pay the call out charge and left a voicemail
for Ms B on 13 November 2018  to confirm that. The supervisor subsequently considered the
complaint closed.
Ms B tried other companies to recover her car, but as these were still very costly  she ended
up arranging  an informal recovery for £75 - although they couldnt collect  the car until 20
November 2018.  The payment of £75 was made in two instalments of £37.50 (13 and 20
November 2018). Once the car was recovered,  Ms Bs garage then replaced  the battery and
the alternator. They also carried out a MOT  for Ms Bs car.
Ms B chased the agent about her complaint on 22 November 2018. The agent reviewed
things and accepted they could have recovered Ms Bs car at the time of the incident. The
agent offered  Ms B her recovery costs (£75) and £30 as a gesture of goodwill. Ms B didnt
accept this.
Two of our investigators looked  into things and felt it was fair to refund Ms B the £75, but the
£30 should be increased to £150.  Ms B didnt accept this either  as she felt the £150  should
be closer to the cost Ageas would have  incurred for recovering the car (£456). Because  a
resolution couldnt be reached the case came to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings to Ms B and Ageas. Ive summarised these  below. 
As Ageas had accepted they should have  recovered Ms Bs car at the time of the 
incident, I didnt  need to consider whether the claim was covered under the policy.  
Rather I needed to see whether  Ageas had done  enough,  as far as is reasonably 
possible, to put things  right. Based on what Id seen, I didnt think they had. 
I explained it would be unfair  to put Ms B in a better financial position  than she would 
have been if Ageas  had recovered  her car at the time. But agreed with our 
investigators that the cost Ms B did pay for recovering the car should be returned to 
her. And I thought  compensation should be paid to Ms B to reflect the trouble this 
matter had caused her. 
Ref: DRN72086672I said it was fair to say Ms Bs car would always have broken down, so Ms B would 
have experienced a degree of inconvenience and time without her car. But had the 
car been recovered on the day of the incident, a proper diagnosis  and repair would 
have happened  sooner.  And I noted time without the car did impact Ms B in terms of 
getting to work (which  wasnt  nearby) and her family life. 
I noted Ms B also had the trouble of arranging  alternative recovery of the car, which 
couldnt happen straightaway. It took 8 days for the car to be recovered and taken to 
a garage  a delay  which could  have been avoided if the car had been recovered  
immediately. And this meant the car had been  unattended for several days, which  I 
said understandably caused  Ms B worry about  how safe and secure  the car was.  
I said it was reasonable for Ms B to have expected her policy would provide her with 
cover for such an eventuality, so it was understandable that she would be 
disappointed and frustrated when she had to sort things out for herself.  
I proposed the award to recognise  the trouble all this had caused Ms B, be increased 
to £300. 
I also explained that I could not investigate how Ageas had handled  the complaint as 
this was not something within  my scope. 
responses to my provisional  findings 
Ageas took some  time to consider my provisional findings and concluded an offer of £300 
was too high. They thought £225  better recognised the upset and inconvenience  this matter 
had caused Ms B. This offer was put to Ms B, but she didnt  wish to accept it. 
Ms B replied to my provisional  decision and recognised it would be unfair for her to be 
financially better off and agreed it was fair to recognise the impact of 8 days without a car, as 
time beyond  that could  not be considered Ageass fault. But Ms B felt an award of £456  
would not be putting her in a better position.  
Financially Ms B feels  her loss is greater than £456 as commuting by train cost her far more 
than her fuel costs for the same journey to work. And she says she had also, on occasion, 
paid to use bus services to take her family to commitments they had. 
Ms B said the inconvenience was significant because  she lost time travelling to and from 
work. And on one occasion she was unable to return home  as there were  no trains. Her 
family were also impacted  in terms of being able to get around.  
Overall Ms B mostly agreed  with my provisional findings and recognises  that it wouldnt be 
fair for Ageas to compensate the full extent of her losses as she could have done  more to try 
and mitigate them by paying the £456 at the time. Had she done so, then Ms B feels she 
would now be receiving  the sum of £456  which is what  she is seeking to resolve  things. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN72086673Ive very carefully considered what Ageas and Ms B have submitted in response to my 
provisional findings. And Im mindful  also of the references Ms B made  about  how our 
service makes awards of this nature. As Im sure both parties can appreciate,  it is not easy 
to decide and quantify an individuals  level of distress, inconvenience  or both, and I need  to 
decide what is fair in the circumstances of each  case. 
For the reasons  above, I am in no doubt  that Ms B was inconvenienced by not having  the 
use of her car for the time in question. And that Ms Bs decision to take out this breakdown 
insurance was done  so with a view to preventing and mitigating such  an inconvenience from 
happening.
 
As Ms B recognises, it would not be fair to put her in a position of financial betterment when 
looking to put things right here. And I note Ms B has, with hindsight, considered paying 
Ageass recovery fee of £456 is something she perhaps should have done at the time.  I do 
acknowledge Ms Bs candid response  here; however, I think it only fair to ask Ageas to pay 
back to Ms B the actual recovery costs she incurred. And I must  think about the level of 
inconvenience this matter has caused Ms B as a separate amount, rather  than measure it 
against recovery costs  that were  never  paid. 
With that in mind, I have  balanced all the submissions to decide what  is fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances. So considering  all of the above, and the attempts Ms B took to 
mitigate her situation, I still feel that overall £300  is fair in the circumstances to recognise the 
trouble Ms B has experienced here.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. If it has not 
already done so, Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Ms Bs recovery  costs  (£75) plus 8% 
simple interest per annum on this amount from the time Ms B paid the recovery  costs  until 
the date of settlement. And pay Ms B £300  compensation  to recognise the trouble this 
matter has caused  her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.  
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7208667