K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the delays he says he suffered when he wanted  to drawdown funds 
from his pension plan with Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva). He wants 
compensation for all the associated issues that have occurred  because  of the delays. 
background
Mr H held a pension plan with Aviva which contained protected and non-protected rights 
benefits. He contacted Aviva on 5 April 2018 to notify it of his change of address.  He says he 
also asked to drawdown the tax free cash from his funds and leave the rest invested. Aviva  
talked Mr H through the process, but as his plan didnt facilitate drawdown it had to be 
transferred to another plan.
On 24 April 2018 Mr H contacted Aviva to find out the position with his transfer and 
discovered that hed received pension transfer forms instead of the forms to facilitate the 
drawdown request  hed made. Aviva  explained that Mr H had been  given  incorrect  
information and could only instigate his request  online. Although  Mr H held his plan through 
Aviva (it was formerly with General Accident which  is now part of the Aviva group), the plan 
was administered by another  firm, so Aviva had to transfer it back  so that it could  ensure 
funds could be drawdown. Mr H was told the application would  take between  three  to six 
weeks with a further two weeks before he could access the funds.
Aviva says its records show  the transfer was requested on 26 June 2018 and £65,492.05 
was transferred to a new drawdown plan around two months later, on 29 August 2018. It 
said it paid the tax-free cash of £16,271.47 on 10 September 2018.
But Mr H complained as he said he was disappointed with the length  of time the transfer 
took and the amount of time hed spent chasing up the matter.  He said hed lost time from 
work because of all the time hed spend on the phone to Aviva. But Aviva  said the delay had 
been caused by the time taken to get the documents it required and had released the funds 
sooner than expected. But it did pay £200  to Mr H for the distress  and inconvenience hed 
suffered.  
Mr H didnt feel the offer was enough  and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  and that Avivas offer of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable. 
He said Aviva had caused  some  delays and provided some poor communication, but overall 
could see that Mr H had received  a higher fund value than he would have done had the plan 
been transferred  sooner. So he thought Mr H had made a financial gain from the transaction 
and therefore  Aviva didnt need to do anything further.   
Mr H didnt agree. In response he made  the following points:
He had evidence  to show over 31 hours of telephone calls between himself  and 
Aviva. Of these at least 10 hours could be proven to have  been  connected calls. He 
thought Aviva had sought to minimise the number  of calls involved in its 
communication with us.
The time hed spend trying  to resolve  the issue meant hed lost over £1,000  in work 
he was unable to do for his business.
Ref: DRN73494302Aviva  didnt explain the process  of accessing  his funds which  meant he had to 
research this matter  himself. He didnt  think it was satisfactory for Aviva to cite the 
third-party requests  about his pension plan and he felt that the decision to pass the 
administration of his plan elsewhere  was Avivas responsibility.
Aviva  constantly broke  its promises to him and left the impression its staff didnt  know 
what they were doing.
He didnt accept  that hed made a financial gain as he thought  he could equally have 
made money by investing the funds  if hed received them earlier. He also wanted to 
pay for an operation  on an extended  family  member  which by the time he got the 
money and was able to confirm the operation could go ahead, had become more 
complex and costly. 
He didnt believe the £200  Aviva  had offered covered the long delay, the cost and 
time of the calls and the stress hed suffered.
Mr H said he wanted the complaint referred  to an ombudsman, so it was passed  to me for a 
review. 
During this time Aviva said it believed it had delayed the transfer  and asked to carry out a 
loss assessment for any delay it caused.  However, Aviva concluded that it could have 
completed the transfer a day earlier and calculated that Mr H had suffered a loss of around 
£37. Mr H didnt accept  Avivas revised  offer. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that the transfer should have completed  34 days earlier  and 
I explained why I thought  Aviva was responsible for those delays. I said Aviva should 
compare Mr Hs current pension value with what it would now be if it had been transferred 34 
days earlier. And Aviva should  pay Mr H £200  for any distress  and inconvenience the matter 
had caused. 
In summary  I made the following points:
Avivas service standards for carrying out this type of transfer were three to six weeks 
followed by a further two weeks to set up the drawdown plan. I thought that, if Aviva 
had communicated  this process  to Mr H, then the timescale would have  been  
reasonable. But I didnt think it explained  the process satisfactorily, which  was why 
Mr H first queried the forms he was sent. So I thought the process could have begun  
20 days earlier if Aviva had told Mr H how the process was going  to work in this case.
I also said that Aviva had exceeded the service standards  it set out for the transfer. I 
thought it had taken an extra 14 days above  the three to six weeks  it said the initial 
transfer should take.
I thought the £200 compensation Aviva had paid for the distress and inconvenience 
caused was a fair payment for the impact this matter had on Mr H. 
Aviva accepted the provisional decision and said it would carry out the calculation as 
requested, but Mr H didnt  agree. He responded making the following points:
He thought the outcome was more in favour of Avivas version of events and said he 
had listened to recordings of his calls with Aviva  which showed how the sequence of 
events was somewhat  different  to what Aviva  had presented.
He thought it was wrong to suggest  that the time hed spent on the phone  to Aviva 
represented inconvenience that we all suffer from time to time when dealing  with 
Ref: DRN73494303firms. He thought the 30 hours worth  of calls hed made was more  significant than 
that and had impacted his capacity to work.  
He noted the timescales hed been quoted  to draw  down  his funds when he first 
contacted Aviva.  He felt a four-month  delay was excessive  and not represented by 
the 34 day delay  I said he should be compensated for.
He hadnt  been told that his plan was held by another  firm.
The transfer had been requested on 5 and 24 April 2018  as well as in a number of 
the phone  calls he had with Aviva. He didnt regard the transfer  as only first being 
requested on 26 June 2018.
Even if the transfer was requested in June 2018  Aviva had said it should  take three 
weeks, so it should have completed  by 26 April not 17 September  2018.
The £200 compensation was derisory and covered about 5% of the loss hed 
suffered. 
Hed calculated the loss from 26 April to 17 September 2018, based  on Avivas 
formula of £37 per day, as being  a total loss of £5,320 but was prepared to accept 
compensation of £1,500. 
He could provide  recordings  and transcripts of calls which would show  that he 
requested a withdrawal of 25% of his fund on 5 April 2018 as well as evidence of the 
time he was told the transaction would  take.
He hadnt  rung Aviva  to query the forms hed been sent as he wasnt  told about  the 
whole transfer  process.  He contacted  Aviva  on 26 April 2018 to find out what  
progress had been made  with his transfer.
Hed been told by Aviva on 24 April 2018  that his forms were incorrect and that he 
would need to complete the process online.  He says he was told specifically that the 
process would  only take three weeks.
It was inaccurate to say Mr H had done nothing after 25 April 2018. He says he 
thought he completed the transfer straight  after the phone conversation hed had with 
Aviva. He didnt  speak  to Aviva for eight weeks after this time because he assumed 
his transfer would have completed and his funds transferred in that time.  He didnt 
chase up his application because of the negative experience  hed had with Aviva. 
He thought Aviva had sought to hide information and distorted the facts to put itself in 
a more favourable  light. 
He calculated his loss of work capacity at an average of £35 per hour for the 30 
hours hed lost trying to speak  with Aviva.
He hadnt  suggested that he should be compensated for the increased  cost of the 
operation, but wanted to confirm the extra cost wouldnt have been necessary if the 
cash had been provided within the time it should  have  been.
In summary every  time hed spoken to Aviva, hed been given a completion time of 
three weeks, so he thought the total time the transfer took was a significant  delay.  
And hed had to spend over 30 hours trying to communicate with Aviva which he 
calculated had cost over £1,000 in lost business  fees. So he thought the £200 
compensation didnt cover the losses hed suffered.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my original  findings  so Ill explain my reasons in more details. 
Id like to reiterate how I came to my original  conclusion. Im satisfied that Mr H requested a 
drawdown of his tax free cash on 5 April 2018,  and that on 24 April 2018  he was told that 
hed been misinformed about the process  and had been send the wrong transfer forms as 
Ref: DRN73494304the process could  only be carried out online. I said that any delay caused there was Avivas 
responsibility. During the call of 24 April 2018 Mr H was informed that his could only carry 
out the transfer and drawdown  online and was directed to the correct website. Mr H did 
speak with Aviva several times over the next few days for assistance  in how to complete the 
application, and during  the call of 26 April 2018 it seemed that Mr H was given the additional 
help he required regarding the percentage of funds he should  transfer.
But theres no evidence  of Mr Hs application being submitted until June 2018. Aviva has no 
record of it being  received  before  this date. So, although I dont dispute Mr H tried to 
complete the application online, he didnt have  any receipt or emails to confirm  the 
application had been made. So, I cant safely say any delay there was Avivas responsibility  
as it wasnt aware of the requirement to progress  his application  and it had fulfilled its 
obligation to provide Mr H with the necessary information to make his application.
I then compared  the time the transfer  took from June 2018 against  the service  standards  
Aviva quoted for such transfers  which I understand is noted clearly  on its website. The 
process is supposed to take between three and six weeks. I said,  in Mr Hs case,  it had 
taken eight weeks so therefore Aviva  had caused  another two week  (14 day) delay. When 
added to the initial delay this meant that I thought  Mr Hs transfer should have competed 34 
days earlier. 
But Mr H said that Aviva had been inaccurate with how it set out the sequence of events. He 
said he wasnt told that another firm administered his pension, and he said Aviva repeatedly 
told him that the whole  process would  take around  three weeks, although he noted this had 
varied in a number  of the calls he had. He asked me to listen  to a number of call recordings  
he was able to provide,  and I also asked Aviva to provide any call recordings it held for the 
same period.  Mr H said that by listening to the calls I would also understand the level of poor 
service hed suffered  and the numerous hours  hed spent trying to get through to Aviva and 
then being provided with incorrect  information.  
So, Ive listened  to the calls and Ive thought  very carefully about their effect on the outcome 
of Mr Hs complaint. 
The length  of time Aviva  said the process  should take 
Mr H says he was told, on a number of occasions, that the process would take three weeks.  
But he says that even if this wasnt the case it still shouldnt  have  taken four months. So Ive 
looked at what  Mr H was told. During  the first call on 5 April 2018  an adviser, when Mr H 
asked him how long the transfer would take,  said turnaround times for that would be, let me 
think, requesting  the forms that would  be up to 10 working days  processing time, plus 
depending on whether you got in by email  or by post, vary between up to 2 working days  by 
email to receive it and between 5 and 7 working days to receive it by post.
And then from there it would depend on how quick the processing time of the receiving 
scheme is in order to get their half done and dusted, once they then sent their half of the 
forms back to us it would then take up to ten working days  to process this information and 
then a further 3-5 working days for the transfer to take placeright  ok right ok so were 
talking about 6 weeks, 4-6 weeks something like that around about that time. 
The adviser did suggest another party was involved here, and its possible that because he 
sent out the wrong forms he may have been talking  about a more  general transfer. But his 
suggested timescale for completion was within Avivas general timescales for such 
Ref: DRN73494305transactions. And it was in line with the website which says that it should be between three 
to six weeks.
The last call recording  Ive heard from 26 April 2018  also gave a clear  expected  timeline of 
events. The adviser  confirmed that . If you look the website..it states this usually takes 
between 3 and 6 weeks.   Another two to access the income  drawdown  so in total you are 
looking at potentially an eight week  period. He also confirmed that it wasnt an easy  or short  
process and that it would take some time, adding that it would be a minimum of five weeks . 
I dont think the adviser should have added the minimum timescale because Aviva  hasnt  
stated that anywhere  in its standards, but I havent  heard anything from either of these calls 
which would persuade me that Aviva promised  anything  outside of its normal  standards.
Mr H has particularly drawn my attention to the call of 24 April 2018  where  the adviser was 
less forthright about the timescales. When asked by Mr H I want to draw 25%, how long is 
that going to take me to do the adviser  replied that  if you do it online now,  it usually takes 
around 10 working days to set up the policy, and then to withdraw  the money out of that I 
think around five days on top, so thats around about  three weeks in total. He did however  
talk about an additional 10 working days at the end of the process  to effect the drawdown.  I 
think the adviser could  have  been clearer here, but Im not persuaded  that he said Mr H 
would receive his money within  three  weeks. He used approximate timescales for each part 
of the process,  which I think he should  have clarified, but I dont agree that this amounted to 
a guarantee of how long the process  would take.
But even if I am wrong with my interpretation,  Im satisfied that Mr H had already been  
provided with more accurate references  to the time the transfer might take and I think  he 
ought to have been more  persuaded by the first adviser, who was setting out the process for 
the first time, when Mr H applied to drawdown  the funds. And Im satisfied that the website, 
which another adviser referred to, contained  the correct information and represented Avivas 
standards as opposed to the individual advisers interpretations  although I accept that they 
should still have  provided accurate information as well, which on the whole I think they did. 
So, I dont agree with Mr Hs assertion that he was consistently told the transfer  would take 
three weeks and therefore that Aviva has delayed the process significantly.  
  
Avivas poor service as demonstrated by the number  and length  of Mr Hs telephone calls 
Although I set out the background as I understood it to be in my provisional decision, I didnt 
dispute that Mr H had spent around  30 hours  trying  to communicate with Aviva and I said I 
thought, on balance, he hadnt  been  told that his pension  was administered elsewhere.  I said 
I accepted that his first telephone conversion was most  likely  a request to start the whole 
drawdown process. So in the main I accepted Mr Hs version of events. 
Mr H wanted me to listen to other calls which he said demonstrated the experience he 
suffered. He explained  how he would  often be on hold for up to an hour with Aviva,  usually 
with two separate handsets. And that hed often make no progress with his request,  finding 
himself speaking to people that couldnt  help. He asked me to listen  to a call from 
25 April 2018 which he said summed up his experience perfectly.  
And I have  to agree with Mr H that he did suffer a poor customer experience on that date, 
achieving very little in an hour or so of being put on hold and transferred to incorrect  
departments. I can understand the frustration  he must have suffered and the strength of his 
feeling around the poor communication he experienced. I didnt suggest in my provisional 
Ref: DRN73494306decision that Mr Hs experience was minor and insignificant, simply that it isnt uncommon to 
suffer some frustration when asking a business to compete a transaction. But, as Ive said,  I 
dont underestimate  the poor experience Mr H had and the impact this had on him. Hes 
confirmed that this resulted in over 30 lost hours  and consequently a loss of income  from his 
business.
But while I dont dispute the inconvenience  this caused Mr H, I think  the offer of 
compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable and reflective of the impact  the experience had 
upon him. This payment  isnt supposed to represent  any financial loss that Mr H has suffered 
 thats the purpose of the calculation below, but it should reflect all the trouble an upset  
Mr H suffered. In this case I think its within the range of what  Id expect to see paid for 
distress and inconvenience such as this.
Mr H has claimed  a total financial loss of over £5,000, based on his perception  of the delay  
and using Avivas  previous calculation for the loss Mr H suffered for a delay of one day. Ive 
already given the reasons  for why I think the delay was 34 days. But I ought to explain that 
Avivas formula  for the loss of one day isnt as such a daily  formula  but simply a reflection, 
based on unit prices, of how much was lost on that one day. Losses will be calculated for the 
length of the delay and will vary from day to day depending on price  fluctuation.  It could be 
possible for no loss to have occurred over that period  in question.
But, while Im satisfied  that Avivas offer of £200 for all the distress and inconvenience  
caused to Mr H over the telephone calls and other matters  is fair and reasonable, Ive 
decided that Aviva did delay the transfer  by 34 days  and therefore it should carry out a 
calculation, as set out below, to put things right.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if Aviva hadnt caused  some  delay to the transfer. Im satisfied that what  Ive set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested
What should Aviva  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's pension had the transfer completed 34 days 
earlier (fair value) with that of its current (actual) value.  Thats  because  I think  Aviva is 
responsible for the delay between 5 and 25 April 2018 when it didnt make the 
situation clear regarding the extra transfer before setting up a drawdown plan.
And I think it took 14 days longer to carry out the transaction than the later date used 
in the range of its normal transfer timescales  (3-6 weeks), with no justification as to 
why that delay occurred. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual  value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Ref: DRN73494307Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Aviva is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £200 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aviva  Life & Pensions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Aviva Life & Pensions Limited should provide  details  of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349430