K821x#15Complaint
Miss T complains Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as Sunny) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
Background
Miss T took one running credit facility  (RCF) in July 2013. The RCF allowed Miss T to either 
request funds up to her agreed credit  limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to that 
limit. Each drawdown could be repaid  via five monthly instalments. The last drawdown 
Miss T took was in September 2014 and the RCF was repaid in September 2015 following a 
repayment plan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was wrong  of Sunny to have granted  the facility.  But she 
thought it was wrong for Sunny to have  allowed  drawdowns from 20 January 2014 onwards 
because the adjudicator thought that Miss T had become reliant  on the RCF by this point as 
it was six months into the lending relationship  and she still owed the full capital balance.   
It appears Miss T accepted our adjudicators assessment.  Sunny  disagreed.  But, it has 
already accepted that something  may have gone wrong when it provided the last three 
drawdowns, so it agreed to refund  interest on this lending together with 8% simple  interest.  It 
also agreed to update  the credit file in line with the adjudicators recommendation.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Miss T doesnt appear  to disagree  with our adjudicators findings that Sunny wasnt wrong  to 
have granted  the RCF and lend the drawdowns  after January 2014.  It seems therefore that 
the original decision  to provide the RCF is no longer  in dispute and so I wont be making a 
finding on this part of the complaint. 
Ive also not considered whether Sunny should  have lent the last three drawdowns as it has 
already agreed  it shouldnt. But for clarity Ive set out how Sunny should update Miss Ts 
credit file for this lending.     
So instead,  this decision will focus on whether Sunny  did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns under the RCF from January 2014 until 18 July 2014 (when the last drawdown 
was taken before those  that Sunny has agreed shouldnt have been lent). But I have kept 
the other lending in mind when thinking  about the overall lending  relationship  between  
Sunny and Miss T.
Miss T wasnt  given a payday  loan where  she had to repay all of what  she borrowed plus the 
interest due when she next got paid. She was given a RCF where  there was an expectation 
that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest  due within a period of five months. So 
overall, I think that this means the checks  Sunny carried out had to provide enough 
information for it to be able to understand whether Miss T would likely be able to service and 
Ref: DRN76932352then repay  this facility  within a reasonable period  of time. And Ive kept this in mind  when 
thinking about how Miss T used the facility.  
I think it would be helpful for me to explain that when Sunny gave Miss T this facility it was 
regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance  on this type of 
lending and what it says should be expected from lenders after the facility was granted.
Section 2.2 of the General Principles  of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:  creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course 
of the credit  agreement, offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So, it wasnt  enough for Sunny to just assess the lending based  on what  it knew  when the 
RCF was approved  in July 2013. It also needed to monitor how Miss T was using the facility 
- and then step in and provide help when or if it could  see Miss T was or was likely having 
financial difficulties.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
Although weve asked Sunny for a copy of the RCF credit agreement  it hasnt been provided.
But I dont think I need to see a copy to make  a finding in this complaint because  of the way 
in which  Miss T used the facility. From what I can see, for the most part Miss T generally  
took funds of up to £500 until the last few drawdowns when it appears a higher level of 
capital was outstanding. 
According to the transaction history  Miss T took 16 drawdowns not 17 as the adjudicator  has 
indicated. Sunny has told us there was an error in the accounts history when it was set up. 
So on 19 July 2013 Miss T took a single drawdown of £100  rather than two of £100 and 
£400 as Sunny had initially told us. But I dont think this makes  a difference  to the outcome 
of this complaint,  because  as Ive said above,  Im looking  at how Miss T used the facility and 
whether Sunny monitored it and then provided  assistance if and when  financial  difficulties  
were apparent.    
I can see that following  the first drawdown  of £100, Miss T drew down £350 and £96.04 in 
August 2013,  taking  her outstanding credit to £500.  In the following months  few payments 
were made. What then happened was that Miss T continued to repay Sunny small amounts 
and then drawdown relatively  small amounts  to take her outstanding credit  back up to £500. 
For example, £96.04  on 27 August  2013 followed by £78.95, £79.69 and £70.26  in 
September, October and December 2013 respectively. 
Miss T then repaid the outstanding balance in full on 21 January 2014 before, on the 
following day, drawing  down another £500.  So this was the fifth time in six months where 
shed reached  the point  where she had outstanding credit of £500. I think  Sunny  should 
have been aware  by this point that Miss T wasnt using her account as intended or making 
any headway in repaying her loan. Indeed, six months into having the facility, Miss T still 
owed Sunny £500 which represented almost a third of her declared income.  
I think what appears to have happened is that Miss T needed to borrow further from Sunny 
in order to fill a hole in her finances  that was made  by making  repayments  to Sunny. And so 
this isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. Miss T continued to borrow through to September 
2014, regularly  topping up the RCF to £500  or more. 
Ref: DRN76932353In these circumstances, I dont think Sunny could have reasonably believed that Miss T 
would have been able to repay drawdowns  on the RCF from 20 January 2014 without any 
undue difficulty or without the need to borrow again. Indeed, in my view, this is a sign of 
financial difficulty because Miss T wasnt able to reduce  her capital amounts in any 
meaningful way without needing to borrow again. So I think its most likely that Miss T was 
having problems  managing her money. So I agree with our adjudicator that Sunny  shouldnt 
have allowed any further drawdowns from this date.  
So, Im upholding  Miss Ts complaint about  the drawdowns from 20 January 2014 onwards 
and Sunny should put things right as detailed below.
Putting things  right
Considering what  Sunny has already  agreed to do, in order to put things right it should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on drawdowns on the RCF from
20 January 2014;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  on Miss Ts credit file about the RCF from
20 January 2014.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss T a certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Ts complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss T as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
 
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7693235