K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Gain  Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
 
background
Mrs C took out two loans  with Lending  Stream. The first was in October 2018 and the 
second was in January 2019.  Both loans were repayable in six, monthly instalments. Mrs C 
hasnt repaid the loans. A summary of Mrs Cs borrowing with Lending Stream is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowed
131 October 2018 400
27 January 2019 290
Mrs C says it was irresponsible of Lending Stream to give her loan two before shed repaid 
loan one. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mrs Cs complaint. He didnt think  that Lending  Stream 
was wrong to lend to Mrs C.
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She said that the fact that she had two concurrent 
loans with Lending Stream shows that she couldnt  afford the payments. Miss C says that 
she had to take out the second loan to cover the repayments from the first loan. She said 
that Lending Streams  searches would have  showed how poor her credit rating was. Mrs C 
said that the adjudicator hadnt considered the problems she had around repayment in    
April 2019. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
This decision deals  with Mrs Cs complaint about  unaffordable lending, as that was Mrs Cs 
initial complaint to Lending Stream in January  2019. Lending Stream  responded to that 
complaint in March  2019. Mrs Cs repayment difficulties in April 2019  and beyond were  after 
that, so Lending Stream hasnt provided  its final response in relation to that issue.  This 
service asked Lending Stream whether it agreed to us looking into the later difficulties as 
part of this complaint,  but it didnt respond. Im afraid  that means  that if Mrs C wants to 
pursue a complaint about repayment difficulties in April 2019,  shell  have to complain  to 
Lending Stream about that in the first instance.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN72382352Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure  
Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan repayments  were affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
When Mrs C applied for loan one, Lending  Stream asked her about her income  and 
expenditure. Mrs C told Lending Stream that her monthly income was £1,300 and her 
monthly expenditure was £550.  Lending Stream revised Mrs Cs monthly expenditure 
upwards to £863. So, it proceeded on the basis that Mrs C disposable income of £437. The 
monthly repayments for loan one were around  £94. 
When Mrs C applied for loan two, she told Lending Stream that her monthly income was 
£1,150 and her monthly outgoings  were  £600, which again,  Lending Stream  revised 
upwards to £718. So, Lending Stream proceeded on the basis  that Mrs C had disposable  
monthly income of £432. The repayments for loan two were  around £86. Mrs C hadnt  repaid 
loan one when  she took out loan two. The repayments for the two loans amounted to around 
£180.
Ref: DRN72382353Lending Stream hasnt  provided this service  with copies of it credit checks, so I havent seen 
what its credit checks revealed. But I can say that the information  revealed by credit  checks 
carried out by prospective  lenders are not in the same detail as Mrs C can see from her own 
credit report.  
Based on what Ive seen,  given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Lending Stream at that point,  I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending  Stream to ask Mrs C for the amount of information 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt  anything in the information  
Mrs C provided  or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant  it 
wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what  Mrs C said.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mrs Cs lending history  with Lending Stream, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which it should  reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful such that it shouldnt  have  provided  any 
further loans.  I note that when Mrs C took out loan two, she hadnt repaid loan one. But her 
repayments for loan one were up to date at that point. And, based on the information  
Lending Stream had, the combined repayment  amounts appeared affordable.  So, I dont 
think the point  was reached  where  Lending Stream  shouldve seen that further lending was 
unsustainable. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but, for the reasons  Ive explained,  there are no grounds to 
uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7238235