K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank Plc - trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester  (C&G)  mis-sold  
them three mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out PPI policies  in 2001,  2003  and 2010   alongside their mortgage and 
further borrowing. The policies  were taken out in Mr Fs sole name  and they paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs F and C&G agree that the policies sold in 2001  and 2003 were sold during 
meetings. C&G says the PPI sold in 2010 was sold during a telephone call. And looking  at 
the information Ive been given, I think that is likely to be correct. 
Whatever way the policies  were sold, C&G  shouldve taken reasonable steps to make 
Mr and Mrs F aware they had a choice in buying them. Mr and Mrs F say they thought  they 
had to have the PPI to get the borrowing. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed with Mr and Mrs F when they bought each policy.  
So Ive thought about their comments alongside  their mortgage application documents,  
which C&G has provided. Ive also considered what I know  about the way C&G  sold these 
policies in general, to decide whats most  likely to have happened.  
C&G has provided copies  of the mortgage application forms for each sale. Each  application 
form has a section where it asks applicants to select a yes or no box to opt to take the 
PPI or not. If applicants  wish to take out PPI they then complete a separate  application  form. 
On Mr and Mrs Fs 2001 mortgage application  form, the yes box has been  ticked and 
Mr and Mrs F have  signed in agreement to the contents of the form. And they have gone on 
to complete the separate application  form. 
The 2003  and 2010 sections for PPI have been  left blank  but there is a completed signed 
PPI application  form for each sale. This suggests to me a conversation about the PPI took 
place between Mr and Mrs F and C&G.  And Mr and Mrs F decided what  the best level of 
cover was suitable for their circumstances at the time.
So, I think its most likely C&G made  Mr and Mrs F aware they had a choice about buying 
the policy. And  at the time  they chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN70749212C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it shouldve made sure that each policy  was 
right for them. From what  Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable  for Mr and Mrs F based 
on their circumstances  at the time. Ill explain why:
Mr F met the policies requirements  so was eligible for each one.
Mr F says he wouldve  received between 6 and 12 months  sick pay benefit from his 
employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid their mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months  if Mr F was unable  to work due to being too unwell  
or becoming unemployed. This wouldve meant  they couldve used Mr Fs sick pay 
benefits to pay for other essential  costs.  
I can see Mr and Mrs F have mentioned they had savings they could have  used to 
make their mortgage  repayments. But having the PPI in place would have meant 
they couldve used  their savings for other  essential costs if Mr F was unable  to work.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mr Fs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim. For example, he didnt have any unusual working 
patterns or existing  health conditions. 
I think C&G couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr and Mrs F would still have bought  it. They  were  taking on large 
financial commitments   secured against their home, so I think they wouldve wanted 
the security of knowing their mortgage repayments were covered if Mr F was too sick 
to work or became  unemployed. Also Ive not seen any evidence to show  that they 
couldnt afford the monthly payments or needed  to keep the costs  down. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  C&G  shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to 
point out the main things each policy didnt cover. I dont know  if C&G did point  these things 
out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs F. And I dont think  
clearer information wouldve changed  their decision. I think theyd still have bought  the PPI. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for them.  
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs F have lost out as a result  of 
anything C&G mightve done wrong.  
But C&G will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
When the policy was sold,  C&G  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs F about 
that. Because C&G  didnt tell Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, C&G has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs F have said.  But for the reasons Ive laid 
out above, these points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN70749213C&G has to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. C&G should also pay back to Mr and Mrs F any extra interest  
they paid because of that.
C&G should pay back to Mr and Mrs F the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. C&G should also 
pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs F can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7074921