K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds handling of his claim against  his 
employers group private medical insurance  scheme.
background
Mr H is a member  of a group private medial  insurance scheme,  via his employer. He had 
recurring symptoms of achalasia, a condition that affects the oesophagus and his ability to 
swallow. In January 2017, Mr H spoke with AXA PPP and discussed a new, modified 
Hellers procedure. AXA PPP told Mr H that procedure wasnt covered by his policy,  as it 
wasnt a proven treatment  according to guidance issued by The National Institute for Health 
and Care Excellence (NICE).
In May 2017, Mr H spoke  with AXA PPP again and told it that his specialist  had provided  him 
with the code (G0920) for a Hellers procedure.  AXA PPP subsequently authorised a Hellers  
procedure. Mr H had a procedure in August 2017.  
In September  2017, AXA PPP received a number of invoices for Mr Hs procedure, one of 
which was for £785 from Mr Hs specialist in relation  to procedure G0920. In 
December 2017,  AXA PPP asked Mr H for his consent to access his medical records and in 
January 2018,  it said that, as it hadnt heard  from him it couldnt  proceed with the claim 
Mr H gave his consent for AXA PPP to access his medical records.  Mr Hs medical  records  
showed that Mr H had a per-oral endoscopic myotomy  (POEM)  procedure.  In January 2018, 
AXA PPP told Mr Hs specialist that it was unable to pay his invoice as Mr H hadnt give it 
any information about the claim; it suggested  that the specialist contacted Mr H for payment. 
Mr Hs specialist told Mr H that AXA PPP hadnt paid his invoice and asked Mr H for 
payment. 
Mr H complained to AXA PPP about how it had handled his complaint. In response to Mr Hs 
complaint, AXA PPP agreed to pay Mr Hs specialist the £550 fee it would  have paid for a 
Hellers procedure. So, theres an outstanding balance of £235.
Mr H complains that AXA;
lied to his specialist  when it said that he hadnt told it about the Hellers procedure;
breached its duty of care to look after his best interests in dealing with his medical 
care;
has a conflict of interest in the funding of new therapies for rare diseases which  
drives deceptive and irrational behaviour; 
used deception  and coercion to obtain  consent  to review confidential medical data;
has a dysfunctional  complaints system, which has no oversight.  
Mr H wants AXA PPP to pay the remaining fee and change its complaints department. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that AXA PPP had 
treated Mr H unfairly in refusing to cover the full cost of the claim. He said that AXA PPP 
explained to Mr H that POEM wasnt covered,  as it wasnt approved by NICE. The 
investigator didnt  think  that it was unreasonable for AXA PPP to rely on NICEs guidance 
when deciding whether a procedure is experimental. The investigator said that Mr Hs policy 
only covers established  medical treatments  and that AXA PPP had decided to cover part of 
the claim based on its fees for a Hellers  procedure. 
Ref: DRN71282992Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt looked at the 
substance of his complaint. There was further correspondence between  the investigator and 
Mr H. The investigator said that he didnt think it was wrong for AXA PPP to check  Mr Hs 
medical notes. He said that AXA PPP had apologised for implying that Mr H hadnt  made  it 
aware of his surgery. The investigator  said that AXA PPP had treated Mr H fairly by paying 
the amount it would have paid for the authorised procedure. 
Mr H said that the investigator had misunderstood  his complaint and he reiterated  and 
elaborated on his initial  complaint. As there  was no agreement  between the parties,  the 
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr H has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Hes provided  detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust 
that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central  
issues.    
As the investigator  explained, the rules that govern  our service dont permit  us to investigate  
complaint handling by businesses. So, I cant consider the part of Mr Hs complaint about 
AXA PPPs complaints process. In addition, this service isnt the regulator  so I cant  
comment on how AXA PPP organises its business and whether it has a conflict  of interest in 
the funding of new therapies. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by this but I cant  act outside 
my legal powers. I can look at Mr Hs remaining areas of concern, namely  AXA PPPs  
request for Mr Hs consent to the release  of his medical records;  its refusal of part of his 
claim and the response it gave to Mr Hs specialist.  
The relevant  policy terms and conditions
Mr Hs policy  includes the following:
Before we can consider a claim you must ensure that:
you obtain and complete any form required  by us in order to provide us with 
the necessary  information and necessary legal permissions to handle  your 
medical information and to assess  your claim. [].
And:
In order to establish the eligibility of any claim,  we may request access  to your 
medical records []. If you unreasonably refuse to agree to such access we will 
refuse your claim and will recoup any previous monies that we have paid in respect 
of that medical condition.
In relation to whats covered by the policy, it says:
Your policy only covers  you for established medical treatments.
Be aware:    
There is no cover for any treatment or procedure  that has not been established as 
being effective  or which is experimental.      
Ref: DRN71282993And:
What we do not pay for:
[]
(b) Treatment which has not been  established  as being effective or which is 
experimental. For established treatment, this means procedures and practices that 
have undergone appropriate clinical trial and assessment,  sufficiently evidenced in 
published medical journals and/or approved by The National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence for specific  purposes  to be considered proven safe and effective 
therapies.
Has Mr H been treated  unfairly?
My role is to decide if AXA PPP acted  fairly  in the individual  circumstances of this case. The 
relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA PPP should handle  claims promptly  and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that AXA PPP has treated him 
unfairly. I say this because:
It was reasonable  for AXA PPP to seek to cross-reference medical notes and 
an invoice. AXA PPP wasnt at fault in asking Mr H for access  to his medical 
records as its entitled to do that under the terms of the policy  and Im 
satisfied they had a legitimate reason to query the invoice. I dont think  that 
AXA PPP went too far in explaining  the consequences of not having received 
Mr Hs consent and I dont  agree that AXA was deceptive or coercive. 
AXA hadnt authorised the POEM  procedure.  So, it wasnt  at fault in refusing 
to settle the claim  for that procedure.  
POEM isnt approved  by NICE as part of the treatment  pathway for achalasia. 
NICEs guidance in relation to POEM describes it as in development. The 
more detailed guidance says it is a procedure  that is only being used in a 
research environment and NICE  is monitoring the procedure.  I think 
AXA PPP is entitled  to rely on NICEs  position and its reasonable for
AXA PPP to conclude  POEM isnt an established  treatment.  
Whilst AXA PPP said incorrectly that Mr H hadnt given it any information 
about the claim when  it declined to pay his specialists invoice, it has since  
apologised for that error, which I think is fair. 
I think AXA PPP acted fairly in paying  Mr Hs specialist the amount it would 
have paid for the procedure that it had authorised, even  though he carried  out 
a different procedure.  
 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but there are no grounds on which  to direct  AXA PPP to do any 
more than its already  done. 
 
Ref: DRN71282994my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7128299