K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W complains that Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc applied unfair  charges at the end of her hire 
agreement. 
Background
Mrs W entered into a four year agreement with Hitachi  Captial to hire a vehicle. She returned  
the vehicle in June 2018 and an inspection was carried out. She says she was then invoiced  
for damage  which she disputed. Following this two of the charges were removed but Mrs W 
was still charged for damage to the front and rear bumpers and the tailgate  pad. She doesnt  
accept that these charges have been  fairly  applied. 
Hitachi Capital says that Mrs W returned her vehicle and an inspection was carried  out. It 
says that damage  to the vehicle was recorded and that this fell outside  of the industry  
guidelines for fair wear and tear. It removed two of the charges but says the remaining 
charges, totalling  £387.50, are fair and reasonable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that we use industry guidelines 
provided by British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA)  when assessing fair 
wear and tear and that based  on the evidence provided he thought the damage  fell outside 
of these guidelines.
Mrs W didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that when the car left her house there 
were no scratches on the front or rear bumper.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W entered into a hire agreement and in doing so agreed to the terms and conditions  
including those regarding  the maintenance of the vehicle. When  the agreement was ended  
an inspection was arranged. This is usual practice  and is used to assess  any damage to the 
vehicle that falls outside of usual wear and tear. As our adjudicator  has explained the 
BVRLA guidelines are used to establish  what is reasonable wear and tear.
In this case, five areas of damage were initially identified and charges applied  for these. 
However following  Mrs Ws complaint two of the charges were removed. Therefore I have 
considered whether the remaining three charges,  listed as scratches to the front bumper, 
scratches to the rear bumper, and a scuffed  tailgate  pad, were  applied fairly.  
Having looked  at the photographs provided I can see the damage that has been charged  for. 
Based on what I have seen I do not find I can dispute Hitachi  Capitals comments that the 
scratch to the front bumper has gone deeper than the top coat and that the rear bumper 
scratch is more than 25 mm long. Given this, and the information  set out in the guidelines, I 
find it reasonable that these charges have been  applied.
In regard to the tailgate pad, the scratches are clearly seen  and so, again, I dont find I can 
say a charge is unfair.
Ref: DRN77139752Overall, I do not find that I can say the charges for the rear and front bumpers and the 
tailgate pad, totalling £387.50, have been  unfairly applied. Therefore  I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713975