K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  wrongly  deposited a cheque 
into an account that wasnt his.
background
A company made a payment to Mr G by a crossed cheque in his name. This cheque was 
paid to a Halifax  child trust account held in the same first name and surname as Mr Gs  but 
with a different  title. When Mr G discovered  this, he complained to both the company that 
issued the cheque and Halifax, as the bank that cashed the cheque. He said that it shouldnt  
have done this, as the account wasnt his and he hadnt received  the money.
Halifax responded  saying  it had followed its processes in cashing the cheque. It was 
satisfied that the cheque  was genuine and had been paid into an account bearing the same 
name as the cheque  itself. Mr G wasnt happy with this and brought  his complaint  to this 
service.
Our investigator noted that Mr G was the true owner of the cheque   as it was made  
payable to him, in his name and hadnt  been altered, or endorsed in any way. After taking 
into account the relevant law, she felt that only Mr G was entitled to the money from the 
cheque. And it was for Halifax  to show it hadnt  been negligent in paying the cheque to the 
account it had.
Having looked  into the matter in detail, she wasnt persuaded Halifax  had shown this. This 
meant it could be held liable for Mr Gs loss here.  So she thought  that Halifax  should refund 
the money from the cheque to him, pay interest  at 8% on this amount from the date the 
cheque was paid and compensate him with £300 for the trouble and upset this caused him.
Halifax eventually accepted the investigators  recommendations.  But Mr G felt that he should  
be paid more compensation. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that what  our 
investigator has suggested here is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Its no longer in dispute that Halifax shouldnt have paid the cheque  into the account it did. 
Halifax has agreed to pay the amount of the cheque to Mr G. As a starting point, this is the 
fair thing  to do. As both sides now agree that this shouldnt have happened and that Mr G 
should now be given  this - I wont go into any more detail on this as part of this decision.
What I need to decide is whats fair to resolve Mr Gs complaint, considering  the wider 
impact this has had on him. When a customer has been deprived of money  in the way Mr G 
has been here  well usually ask a business to pay 8% simple interest on this to make  up 
for the fact they were  without it. Our investigator  has done this here and Halifax  has agreed  
 which  I think is reasonable.
Ref: DRN79620482So now I have to consider whether the compensation Halifax  has offered for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr G is fair. Ive read what hes sent us and had regard for everything  hes 
told us too. This was a large  amount  of money  and it must have been  extremely  worrying  for 
him to have  found out what happened  here.  Discovering that the money was missing  must 
have been upsetting. But to then find that it had been paid into another account in his name 
and Halifax werent  willing to refund it, must  have  been particularly frustrating and confusing.
Our investigator recommended £300  as an amount that fairly compensated Mr G for this. 
Halifax agreed to pay this and I also agree its fair. Im aware that Mr G has been offered a 
different amount of compensation from another business involved in issuing the cheque. I 
can understand why Mr G might compare  the differing amounts of compensation here. But 
its my role to consider each individual complaint based on the circumstances.  Having done  
so here and after carefully considering  everything that Mr G has told us, I think  what Halifax 
has offered is fair to recognise  the impact on him here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right,  Bank of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) needs  to:
pay Mr G the amount of the cheque it cashed;  and,
pay 8% simple interest on that amount for all the time he has been  without that 
money, less any tax properly deductible*; and,
pay £300 to compensate  him for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
* If Halifax considers  that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr G how much its taken off.  It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
Ref: DRN7962048