K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) T/A Audi 
Financial Services applied  excessive  charges  to his account after he voluntarily 
terminated his hire purchase agreement (HPA) agreement.
background
Mr P entered into a HPA agreement to acquire a car in 2015.  He says he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement and the collection of his car was arranged.  The car was 
inspected on 9 May 2018 and Mr P says he refused to sign the inspection sheet as he 
felt the charges were excessive and not applicable. He says he had the car assessed by 
a repair  company before the inspection  and it had said there were  no issues  that fell 
outside of normal  wear and tear.
A second inspection  took place when the car was collected and Mr P says no issues 
were raised. He says that he was told the marks on the alloy wheels were  glue from 
having the tyres changed and could easily been  removed and no mention was made of 
the dent above the rear wheel arch.
VWFS says that refurbishment fees were  part of the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
agreement. It says that the inspection carried out on 9 May listed a scratch to the 
bumper, a dent,  and the need to refurbish an alloy wheel. It says that damage  is only 
reported if it falls outside  of the industry  fair wear  and tear guidelines.
VWFS says that the car was collected  a few days after the inspection was carried  which 
allowed Mr P time to carry out any required repairs.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that the damage was in 
excess of fair wear and tear and so it was reasonable that charges were  applied.
Mr P did not accept our adjudicators view. He said that the damage to the wheel arch 
would not be chargeable if it was in a slightly  different place which  he doesnt think is 
fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges were applied  to Mr Ps account  after he terminated his agreement. Mr P has not 
raised any concerns  about the excess mileage  charge but disputes  the charges  for 
damage to the car.
I have looked  at the inspection report carried out on 9 May 2018.  The photographs  
included show the scratches to the bumper, dent on the wheel arch and the marks on 
the alloy wheel.  The outstanding issue is whether this should be considered  fair wear  
and tear.
I have looked  through  the industry guidelines provided by the British  Vehicle Renting and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA). These  set out that dents  on the roof or swage  line are not 
Ref: DRN71096342acceptable. In this case the dent is on the swage line and so while  I understand Mr Ps 
frustration that had the dent been  elsewhere  on the car it may not have been 
chargeable, in this case I cant  say the charge has been unfairly  applied.
In regard to the scratches these are clear  from the photographs and I think  it reasonable 
to accept these  fall outside of fair wear  and tear. 
Mr P has said he was told the marks on the alloy wheel  were due to the glue used when 
changing the tyre. The collection  report does  not record the damage however the 
inspection report from 9 May records scratches.  Based on the photograph I have seen 
the wheel  has marks around the edge  and on balance, I do not find I can say this is not 
damage to the alloy. Because  of this I find it reasonable this charge was applied.
I appreciate Mr Ps comments about what was said at collection and that he had the car 
assessed before return. But, overall,  I do not find in this case  that I can say the charges 
have been unfairly  applied.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7109634