K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (TPF) did not add a payment break for a 
two month  period to his new loan as he had requested in 2018. Mr M had to find money from 
his savings to make repayments before  he expected to.
background 
In November 2018, Mr M applied for a loan from TPF. He told the adviser he wanted a two 
month payment  break which would help delay  the initial payments over the Christmas 
period. The adviser  made a note of Mr Ms request but did not apply the payment break to 
the loan. Mr M had to use his savings to make the first loan repayments before  he expected 
to.
TPF accepts  it made a mistake and upheld the complaint. Mr M did say he wanted a 
payment break. It accepts  the adviser made  a note of it but didnt apply it to the loan. TPF 
said the adviser was spoken to and TPF offered £50 to Mr M for the error  because   as 
Mr M had already signed to accept the loan terms  it could not now apply the payment 
break retrospectively.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld and suggested an increased settlement 
of £200 for the error as Mr M had to pay the loan repayments from his savings  over 
Christmas whereas the payment break  would  have avoided that. Mr M agreed to accept this 
settlement.
TPF disagreed with our investigators  view and asked for the matter  to be looked  at again. It 
added the adviser  said Mr M only may be eligible for a payment break and that if Mr M had 
read his loan agreement properly, he would  have seen there was no payment break on 
there. So TPF says Mr M should have called to have  the payment break added.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am going to agree the settlement suggested by our investigator is a fair 
way to settle this complaint. I know this will disappoint TPF, so Ill explain why.
I dont need to decide here if TPF has done anything wrong. This is because  the underlying 
error is not in dispute. TPFs adviser made  a note of the payment break but did not add it to 
the loan agreement. I accept the adviser  said Mr M only may be eligible for the payment 
break but Mr M made his requirements clear at the time of the sale, there was a discussion 
and the adviser  made a note about  it. So the payment break should have been added to the 
loan agreement at that time - particularly as it cannot be added  retrospectively. 
The key issue then is whether TPF has done enough to put matters right. And here Mr M 
has indicated that he is in agreement with the settlement suggested by our investigator.     
I accept that perhaps  Mr M should  have read his loan agreement  more carefully. However, 
he did raise the matter of the payment break  at his earliest opportunity  and he eventually 
had to use his savings to make  the first loan repayments when he was not expecting to. So I 
think TPFs  error had lasting impact  for him over that two month period which would have 
been avoided  if the payment break had been  applied as requested. 
Ref: DRN79030832Taking everything into account,  I think it is a fair settlement for TPF to pay Mr M £200 for the 
error.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance Plc should pay Mr M £200  as this is a fair 
way to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903083