K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a regular premium  MPPI  policy in April 1994  alongside  a mortgage. 
The MPPI policy covered  Mr and Mrs M against  accidents, sickness and unemployment. The 
mortgage ended in 1999.
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  mis-sold the MPPI  policy to them. They  say they were  told they 
had to take it in order  to obtain the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. As Mr and Mrs M dont agree with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Neither party can be sure where  the policy was sold. But after seeing the application  form 
used by Lloyds  at the time of sale, I think it is more  likely than not that the MPPI  policy  was 
sold alongside a mortgage in a meeting.  So I will proceed that this is where the policy  was 
sold.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Lloyds has been unable to provide much of the sales  documentation  that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Lloyds to Mr and Mrs M. Ive not been able to see most of 
the original sales  documentation (Lloyds has provided an application form but it is not 
legible in places). So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr and Mrs M were  
given a choice  or not as to whether they should have the MPPI policy  (or whether 
they were told they had to have it).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years  that have passed since  the sale, I 
have not been  able to obtain  a detailed  recollection  of the sale either. The application 
form although in places  not clear,  does show a tick in a box within the PPI section 
indicating to me that a choice was made by Mr and Mrs M. I can also see the 
statement do you require cover  against  accidents, sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment? So with all of this in mind, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion  
that the policy was added without  Mr and Mrs Ms consent or that they were told they 
had to have  it. I just havent  seen enough  to make that conclusion. 
Ref: DRN70528372Moving on, Lloyds  has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs M, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs.  
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr 
and Mrs M initially  said in their complaint form sent to our service, that they were  both 
employed at the time of sale and this is supported by the information  they provided  
on the original  mortgage  application form. 
More recently through their representatives  they have said they were directors within 
their own company that was incorporated in 1988. They  say they would have had a 
sick pay pot of 12 months full sick pay set aside. But on balance, after considering 
what I have seen  in the mortgage  application  form that Mr and Mrs M completed with 
an advisor from Lloyds in the meeting,  I am persuaded they were  both employed  at 
the time of sale in the roles they put down in the form.  I cant  be sure what sick pay 
they would  have been entitled to at that time but it is more  likely based on what  I 
have seen at that time for similar roles that they both would have  received  up to 12 
months sick pay. They also say they would have had savings but havent been able 
to recall how much this would have  been. 
When I consider what I think on balance Mr and Mrs Ms provisions would have been 
at the time of sale, I think the benefit  provided by the policy would  have been  of use 
to them  both in a time of need  and would have paid in addition  to any provisions  they 
would have both had. I think,  on balance,  Mr and Mrs M had a need  for this cover  for 
any extended period of unemployment  or sickness. I also couldnt find any other 
reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would make the policy  unsuitable for 
them.
Lloyds has provided some information about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  that 
Mr and Mrs M took out but even though it has provided information  detailing how 
much it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs  were disclosed to Mr and Mrs M in a 
clear and fair way in the meeting. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mr and Mrs M would  have done  anything different and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, I dont think  
Lloyds mis-sold them this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
Ref: DRN70528373ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052837