K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that BISL Limited  gave him incorrect information  about a motor  insurance 
claim he was making following an accident  in his car. 
background
Mr H was involved in a car accident, so he called BISL to let them know.  Rather  than 
claiming on his insurance policy Mr H was referred to an accident management company. A 
few days later Mr H said he received a call from BISL who said the other driver had accepted  
liability for the accident. 
A couple of days later Mr H was told by the accident  management  company the other driver 
hadnt accepted liability. Because of this Mr H said he lost faith in the accident  management 
company and decided to claim  on his own insurance. He complained  to BISL  about  the 
incorrect information given in the call. 
BISL reviewed Mr Hs complaint and said they couldnt find a record  of calling Mr H to let him 
know the other driver  had accepted liability. However, they agreed they shouldnt have 
referred him to the accident  management company and paid him £100 compensation. Mr H 
didnt think this was good enough and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Hs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  She found  
that BISL hadnt given clear information in the initial call, but couldnt find BISL having  a 
record of calling Mr H. She said even if they had called, she thought  BISL had done enough 
by paying him £100 compensation. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed lost confidence  in the accident management company, 
because of BISLs call. He said if hed stuck with the accident management company then 
he wouldnt  have a record of a claim on his insurance. He asked  for the claim to be recorded 
as non-fault. 
As Mr H didnt  agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BISL  are an insurance broker Im unable  to look at the outcome of Mr Hs claim on his 
insurance policy against them. He would need to direct any concerns about  the outcome of his 
claim to his insurer instead. In this decision  Ive only looked at the information BISL gave  him. 
In the first notification of loss call Mr H was referred to an accident management company. 
BISL have agreed  they shouldnt have referred  him to the accident management company 
given the circumstance of the claim.  Mr H said he wasnt given a choice but if he had been,  
he would  have used  the accident management company anyway.  As BISL have agreed 
they shouldnt  have referred Mr H I see no reason to comment on the call further  here. 
Ref: DRN71616322Mr Hs provided  a phone record which shows BISL called him three days  after the first 
notification of loss call. BISL  has no record of making this call. Its in this call Mr H says he 
was told the other driver had accepted liability. A couple of days later the accident 
management company  told Mr H the other  driver hadnt accepted  liability.  Because  of the 
incorrect information Mr Hs said he lost faith and decided to claim through his insurer.  As he 
will now have  a claim showing he thinks BISL  should compensate  him for this. 
While BISL has no record of the call, Mr Hs provided a screen shot from his phone showing 
the call. Im therefore  satisfied its likely BISL did call Mr H. However, Im not persuaded I 
need to make a finding on what was likely said. I say this because  Ive looked at the impact 
Mr Hs said its had to see if Im persuaded it made  a difference to Mr Hs claim. And I dont 
think it does. 
I understand Mr H says because of this call hes now had to claim  with his insurer.  But its 
likely that would always have happened. I say this because the third party  involved  hadnt 
accepted liability  and its still being  decided months  later. In situations  like this its not 
unusual for an accident  management company to   refer someone back  to their insurer.  
Because of this Im unable to agree its BISLs  fault Mr H now needs  to claim on his policy. 
So, I wont be telling them to compensate him for this. 
BISL agreed they gave incorrect information  to Mr H and caused  him unnecessary  distress  
and inconvenience  initially. Because of this, they delayed Mr H starting  his claim with his 
insurer for just over a week.  Im satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
As this has already  been paid to Mr H, Im not going to instruct BISL to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7161632