K821x#15Complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  debited  her account with a fee 
after shed switched  to another provider. This caused an overdraft and, because Halifax  
didnt clear the overdraft  when  it said it would, it reported arrears  and a default on her credit 
file.
Background
Ms H changed account providers  using  the switching service.  Her account showed a nil 
balance and she assumed it had been closed. But the account was subject to a monthly fee 
and the final charge was debited on 25 October  2018. So the account  remained open with 
an overdrawn balance.
Halifax sent a text to Ms H in January to ask her to contact it and she found  out what  had 
happened. Halifax told her it would write off the balance and pay her £20 compensation. But 
it credited the money needed  to clear her account  to Ms Hs new account  at the other  bank 
by mistake. This meant the overdraft remained on her Halifax account. And Halifax  reported  
this to the credit reference agencies.
Halifax wrote  to Ms H to tell her her account  was in arrears. Ms H was worried about  the 
impact on her credit score because  her mortgage term was due to expire and she was 
looking to replace an unreliable car. She knew she would have difficulties re-mortgaging  and 
obtaining car finance with arrears and a default  recorded on her credit file.
Halifax again apologised and paid £100 compensation to Ms H. It said it would remove  the 
adverse information  from Ms Hs credit file and it offered to explain what  had happened in a 
letter which she would be able to show lenders. But Ms H says she didnt receive the letter.
Our investigator concluded that Halifax should  pay Ms H £200, in addition to the £120 
already paid, to properly  reflect the trouble and upset it had caused.
Ms H agreed with our investigators conclusions.
Halifax didnt. It said, in summary, that when it made  its offer of £100 compensation it was 
before Ms H had tried to apply for a mortgage and car finance. It said if it had seen evidence 
of this, and Ms Hs credit file, it would have reconsidered its compensation offer.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that the account fee charged on 25 October 2018, which resulted in the overdraft, was 
charged correctly. But the confusion which arose after this, and the mistakes Halifax made, 
led to Ms Hs credit file being  affected.
Halifaxs payment of £120 compensation, and its offer to provide a written  explanation of 
what had happened, would likely have been fair if it hadnt been for Ms Hs individual  
circumstances at the time. The fact that she needed to arrange  car finance and a re-
mortgage meant that Halifaxs mistakes and poor service caused  her a higher  level of 
distress and inconvenience than it might  have done had this happened at some other time. 
Ref: DRN70308382In the circumstances, I think our investigators recommendation of an additional £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Halifax says it would  have  reconsidered  its offer if Ms H had shown it evidence of her 
applications. So maybe, if Ms H had continued  to correspond with Halifax  instead of bringing 
her complaint to this service, she would have received the same outcome. But that doesnt  
make a difference to my overall conclusion and what is a fair outcome now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay Ms H £200 in 
addition to the £120 already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030838