K822xcomplaint
Ms N complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance (BPF)) released the funding from her fixed sum loan agreement to her retailer 
before she had given authorisation  for this. 
background 
Ms N entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in November 2017. The loan was 
for £8,500  and was to be used to finance  the installation  of windows and doors.  Ms N says 
the loan funds should not have been  paid to the retailer until she had signed the satisfaction 
note. 
The installation started on 30 November 2017 but then stopped before Christmas as Ms N 
was told the fitters were  unwell. She says that the retailer asked her to sign the satisfaction 
note but she refused to do this as the installation hadnt been  completed  to her satisfaction.  
She contacted the retailer to see when the installation  would  be finished and was told 
8 January 2018. However the fitters  did not turn up on that day and the installation remained  
incomplete. 
Ms N contacted BPF on 15 January 2018 and says she was told the loan funds had been 
released to the retailer. She says that this breached the loan agreement  as she had not 
signed the satisfaction note.
Ms N wants  the retailer to complete the installation  to her satisfaction and to be 
compensated for the undue stress and inconvenience she has been caused.
BPF says that Ms N contacted it in January 2018  unhappy that her loan funds had been 
released as the installation  of her windows and doors had not been completed.  She 
explained the installers had damaged  the boiler pipes and that the scaffolding  remained up. 
It says that in April 2018, the retailer confirmed to BPF that it had agreed the outstanding 
works and that these  would be scheduled in. In June it says the retailer confirmed that works 
had been completed and then later said that the work was to be inspected with any 
outstanding requirements noted.
BPF says that the loan agreement was started  when it was notified by the retailer that it had 
delivered and installed the goods. It says that the loan was started correctly and that 
satisfaction notes  are not required  to activate the loan.
Our investigator did not think that the satisfaction note was required before the funds were 
released and so did not think  that BPF had breached the terms of the loan agreement. He 
did think that Ms N had a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s. 75) as 
the contract  was not completed within a reasonable timeframe and he did not think the work 
was delivered with reasonable care and skill. He said that although BPF was responsible for 
a breach of contract it was not responsible for poor service provided  by the retailer.  He noted 
Ms Ns request for compensation but also that she had the benefit of the windows  and doors 
on her property.
Our investigator initially recommended that BPF made a partial  refund of £750 due to the 
breach of contract.  He also recommended  that BPF:
Ref: DRN799478321.cover  any cost of re-fixing loose telephone or utility wires caused by the scaffolding, 
on presentation of invoice/receipt  evidence of cost from Ms N;
2.make  the retailer aware  Ms N has no certificate for the two doors; and
3.work with Ms N and the retailer to arrange replacement  of the outstanding issue of 
the non-matching obscured window,  should Ms N wish to go ahead with this.
BPF agreed  to the partial refund. In response to the other points it said:
1.the issue with the loose  wires  was due to the wires being attached  to the previous 
window that was removed as part of the installation. It said that the terms and 
conditions of the retailers contract  said that it did not take responsibility for telephone  
connections and so it did not consider it was liable  for this;
2.that a certificate  would not be available for the doors as these did not have more  than 
50% glass; and
3.the retailer had offered  to replace the glass on a number of occasions but Ms N 
made it clear that she didnt want this to happen. It didnt think  it reasonable that it 
should be required to cover the cost of scaffolding  being  put up again for this to 
happen.
Our investigator agreed with the points BPF raised  and issued a second view saying that the 
outstanding issues  were not BPFs  responsibility. He re-confirmed  his recommendation of 
BPF refunding £750 in relation to the overall  breach of contract   with payment either as 
partial overpayment  to the loan account  or a direct refund, depending  on Ms Ns preference.
Ms N said that given the delays and the stress  and inconvenience she had been caused  
dealing with the issues the compensation payment should be increased by £2,000. She said 
the issues were caused by the early payment of the funds to the retailer  before she had 
signed the satisfaction note. She says that although  goods were received the service wasnt 
as issues remained outstanding.
Ms N further said that BPF had a duty of care towards her and that this was not provided. 
She said it was unreasonable to say that the satisfaction note was not needed  before funds 
were provided. And by releasing the funds she was put at a disadvantage as she could not 
delay or withhold  payment  for incomplete  work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to acquired windows and doors. 
Under the regulations BPF can be held liable if there  was a mis-representation or breach  of 
contract by the retailer.
The windows and doors have been installed  but Ms N has raised a number of outstanding 
issues. As our investigator set out, BPF is not responsible for the service Ms N has received  
from the retailer but is responsible if there  has been a breach  of contract. 
Looking at the outstanding issues, I understand that the certificate  is not needed for the 
doors and that a certificate has been provided  for the windows. The terms and conditions of 
the supply contract  set out that responsibility  is not taken for telephone connections and that 
arrangement need to be made separately  for these.  I also accept that Ms N said she no 
Ref: DRN79947833longer wanted  the obscured  window  replaced  and asked for the scaffolding  to be taken 
down. Therefore I do not find that BPF is required to do anything further in respect to these 
issues.
The installation did take a long time to be completed. Works started in November 2017 and 
there were still issues being discussed over six months later. During  this period Ms N had 
scaffolding up at her house and this was not removed until August 2018. I do not find that 
this was a reasonable timeframe for the installation. Because of this I agree that Ms N 
should be compensated. Our investigator recommended that BPF refund Ms N £750. Given 
the issues Ms N has experienced but accepting  that she does have the benefit  of the 
windows and doors I find this reasonable.
Ms N is also concerned that BPF released the loan funds  before she had signed the 
satisfaction note.  I can understand why this upset  Ms N but I do not find that I can say BPF 
did anything wrong.  The pre-contract credit  information says that the loan will be paid to the 
retailer once the loan is approved and the signed  agreement has been  received or when the 
retailer has supplied the goods and services.  I can see why Ms N thought this would not 
happen until she had confirmed she was satisfied but I do not find I can say that a 
satisfaction note was required to be signed  before  the funds  were  released. 
I appreciate Ms Ns comments about feeling  disadvantaged once the payment had been 
made in regard to no longer being able withhold payment. However, as has been explained, 
because Ms N paid for the windows and doors through a loan agreement, she was covered 
by s. 75 and so any breach  of contract could  be addressed. 
Ms N has experienced  service issues with the retailer and I understand it has made a 
goodwill offer.  While I can appreciate  that these issues caused her trouble and upset  I 
cannot hold BPF responsible for these.
Overall, I sympathise with the issues Ms N has experienced and can understand why she 
feels more compensation  should be provided. But in this case, I do not find that anything  
further is required beyond  the £750 recommended.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance) should  refund £750 to IVIs N, as it has agreed,  either as partial overpayment  to the 
loan account or a direct refund, depending on her preference.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994783