K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that he was unfairly  denied roadside assistance under his insurance policy 
with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). 
Where I refer to IPA, this includes their claims handlers and agents.
background
One of the benefits of Mr Ws motorcycle insurance  policy is roadside assistance. That 
section of the cover is provided by IPA. 
In November 2018 Mr Ws motorcycle failed  its MOT  with two major faults.  Mr W decided to 
ride it home, where he intended to make  the required  repairs. On his journey home, he ran 
out of fuel and called IPA for assistance.
IPA became aware  that Mr Ws motorcycle didnt have a valid MOT. He says they told him 
the policy states there is no cover available for a vehicle without a valid MOT. But as a 
gesture of goodwill they would to recover the motorcycle  to the MOT testing station. 
Mr W wanted to be recovered  home,  not back to the garage. And as IPA werent  prepared  to 
do this, he declined their offer.  Mr W walked the four miles home from where  hed run out of 
fuel. He then went in his car to get fuel for his motorcycle which he rode home, leaving his 
car where  hed broken down.  He then had a friend give him a lift back to his car, so he could 
drive that home too. 
Once at home, Mr W checked  his policy documents and found that the exclusion only 
applies to a vehicle  without an MOT where  one is needed. He complained to IPA saying he 
didnt need an MOT  for the journey  he was on when he ran out of fuel. And he thought theyd 
unfairly refused  him assistance. 
IPA responded  to the complaint and in summary said the if one is needed part of the policy  
applies to classic cars which are exempt  from having an MOT. They  said a motorcycle 
without an MOT should not be on the road and maintained theyd acted correctly. 
Being unhappy with this, Mr W referred  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  
thought it should be upheld. He concluded that the reason for the breakdown wasnt linked  
to the failure of the MOT. And as a result the policy  exclusion had been unfair applied. He 
though Mr W had been put to quite a lot of inconvenience and recommended  £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr W accepted this but IPA didnt  agree,  they said if theyd recovered  Mr W home and hed 
subsequently ridden  again, they could be liable. IPA asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. 
I considered all the available evidence and arguments and reached  the same  outcome as 
our investigator. But as my reasoning was different, I contacted  both parties and explained  
why. In summary, I explained  that I dont think an MOT is required for bringing a vehicle 
away from a failed test. As such I agreed that there  was no requirement  for an MOT for the 
journey Mr W was on when he ran out of fuel. So I didnt think  the exclusion  had been  fairly 
applied. 
Ref: DRN74678362Mr W accepted what  Id said.  IPA said they now agreed that an MOT  wasnt  required for the 
journey Mr W was on at the time, but they still wanted an ombudsmans decision. They 
pointed out that had Mr W called a taxi rather than walking home there  would have been less 
inconvenience and the cost would  have been  less than the compensation that has been 
recommended.
Now both sides have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from what Ive already  outlined. Let me explain  why.
Mr Ws policy says there  is no cover  for an insured  vehicle without a current MOT certificate  
(if one is needed) I think this term is clear that the requirement for an MOT  only applies 
where one is needed.  
In making my decision Ive also considered the recent changes to categorisation of the types  
of MOT failures. The introduction of a dangerous defect means that a vehicle with this sort 
of fault should not be driven  at all. Ive seen a copy of the failure report  relating to Mr Ws 
motorcycle. This recorded two major defects which both related to leaking shock absorbers. 
As there were no dangerous  defects recorded, I think it was reasonable for Mr W to ride his 
motorcycle home to complete the necessary repairs. 
Both Mr W and IPA now agree that an MOT was not required for the journey in question. 
Based on this I dont  think IPA fairly  declined Mr W the assistance  that his policy  provides. 
So what  remains is to decide what is fair to put things right.  I can see why Mr W was upset 
when he found  out the policy  hed paid for, didnt help him when he needed it. And I think a 
four mile walk followed by return journeys to recover his vehicles would have caused a level 
of inconvenience.  
IPA disagree that this is fair compensation. Ive thought about their comment  that Mr W 
could have called a taxi, and the costs of this would be less than the compensation our 
investigator recommended. But in these circumstances  I dont  think  Mr W was unreasonable 
in making the decisions  he did. He was working  on the assumption that his policy  didnt 
cover him and I dont  think wanting to avoid incurring the cost of a taxi is unreasonable.  
Taking everything into consideration Im satisfied that £200 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Inter Partner Assistance  SA must  pay Mr W £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Ref: DRN74678363Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467836