K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly  declined a claim she made for her cat under 
her pet insurance  policy.
background
In December 2017 Ms Ds cat, who Ill refer to as B, was taken to the vet as hed been  
vomiting. The vomiting had been ongoing for about  five days.  The vet said to come  back  if it 
hadnt stopped in a further 24-48 hours. Three days after the initial visit, B was taken  back to 
the vets. B was operated  on as an emergency for a mesenteric torsion (twisted intestine). 
Ms D submitted a claim to Allianz  under her pet insurance policy  for the cost of the surgery.  
Allianz declined  the claim  as it said illnesses in the first 14 days of the policy  were  not 
covered. Ms Ds policy had only been in place for six days  when B was first treated and for 
nine days before the surgery.
Ms D complained to Allianz. She said that the torsion was as a result of an injury,  not an 
illness. So it should  be covered as there was no exclusion under the policy  for an injury 
sustained in the first 14 days. She provided  a letter from her vet who said this kind of 
condition normally arises  after some  sort of trauma.  
Allianz didnt agree  to change its mind so Ms D brought  her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator initially thought the complaint should  be upheld and the claim reassessed 
without relying on the exclusion. But following further information  from Allianz  she thought it 
more likely that an illness had caused  the torsion.
Ms D didnt agree. She said her vet had confirmed it was a trauma  and theyd  treated  B, so 
their opinion should carry more weight. She also said had it been sickness which  had 
caused the torsion then symptoms would have continued  after the surgery and would have 
needed medication to clear  it up.
As Ms D didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ive explained  why below.
Ref: DRN79908882Ms Ds policy  says any claim for illness made within the first 14 days  of the policy  is 
excluded. So the key thing for me to decide in this case is whether the torsion was most 
likely caused  by an illness or not. If it was, Allianz can fairly  decline the claim. If it wasnt,  
Allianz should pay it.
Allianz says the torsion was most likely caused  by an illness, so should  be excluded. 
Because its seeking to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim,  it needs to show the claim 
can reasonably  be excluded on this basis. The definition of illness  under the policy is:
Any change(s)  to a normal healthy state, sickness, disease, defects and abnormalities,  
including defects and abnormalities  your pet was born with or were  passed on by his/her 
parents.
Ms Ds vet believes  the torsion  was as a result  of injury, but Allianzs  vet doesnt. So where 
there is a difference of professional opinion Ive considered all of the evidence  to see what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. 
Ive looked at the notes from the vet at the time of the treatment, as I find these the most  
persuasive given  they are from the time. On 20 December  the first time B visited the vet  
the notes say vomiting had been happening  for five days. The vet reports there was a gassy  
and fluid feel to the intestines.  The notes  say assessment: gastroenteritis . So I think at this 
stage the vet was recording  it as an illness.
When B returned to the vets on 23 December, the notes say some  abdominal  pain and think 
can feel plication of intestines.  Plication refers to folding on the intestine, and x-rays 
confirmed this was the case  there was a torsion   so surgery was needed. Allianz says this 
shows that the gastroenteritis caused  the torsion, so it is an illness. And having looked  at 
everything, I think this is the most likely  cause. 
Ms Ds suggested the injury could have happened before 20 December. I accept it would be 
possible for a trauma to cause the torsion, but if it had, I think its likely it would have been 
included in the vets initial notes on 20 December.  The notes didnt pick up a torsion in the 
intestine at this time  so I dont think its likely B had a torsion then.
So the only other time an injury could have happened is between 20 and 23 December. I 
accept its possible that this happened, but I think its most likely that the gastroenteritis 
suffered by B for a number of days caused the torsion. I say this because  Allianzs  research 
has shown illness is the most common cause of a torsion. And neither Ms D nor her vet can 
demonstrate that B did suffer an injury in the days between the visits to the vet.
 
Ive taken into account that Ms Ds vet thinks it was an injury,  but her letter  doesnt  say when 
shed expect the injury  to have occurred. And it doesnt explain why at first examination  on 
20 December, the intestines appeared normal from examining B. So what shes said doesnt  
persuade me that the torsion was more  likely  as a result of injury.
Ms Ds vet has said Bs symptoms stopped immediately after the torsion  was resolved. Ms D 
has said this points  to the torsion being  the cause of the sickness, rather than an illness. But 
I still think its most likely  that an illness was the cause  of the torsion  for the reasons Ive set 
out above. 
Based on everything  Ive seen Im satisfied Bs condition would be classed as an illness  
under the policy,  so I think Allianz has acted fairly in relying declining  the claim. 
Ref: DRN79908883my final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Allianz  Insurance Plc to do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7990888