K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC renewed his home insurance when he 
had advised it he didnt wish to renew. 
background
Mr J had home insurance with Tesco which he took out in 2018,  to commence on 31 March. 
It provided for automatic renewal. In March 2019  he received papers for renewal. Mr J 
obtained insurance elsewhere,  so he emailed Tesco on 28 March to say he didnt want to 
renew. However, Tesco didnt cancel the policy. Mr J then received documents  saying the 
policy had been  renewed. He then received  a letter to say Tesco  hadn't  been able to collect 
the payment.  He received  a letter the following week to say the premium still hadn't  been 
collected. It warned  of what would happen if the premium remained unpaid. The letter gave  
an email address to contact the payments team. 
Mr J emailed the payments team on 11 April and the policy  was dully cancelled  with no 
payment due as this was done  within 14 days of the renewal date. Mr J objected  to this as 
Tesco ignored his email and then made what he thought were unreasonable  threats.
Tesco investigated the matter but confirmed it didnt receive his email of 28 March.  It pointed 
out that the renewal letter didnt give an option to cancel the renewal by email. it provided  a 
customer contact number  for this.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Tesco  
had acted reasonably and as Mr J hadnt  complied with the options  to cancel the policy, it 
couldnt be assumed  that Tesco had received his email requesting  this.
Mr J didnt agree and the matter has been  referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has confirmed that he was aware  that the policy  would be automatically renewed  this 
was the reason he contacted it by email to say he didnt want  renewal. The renewal letter 
and documents  didnt  provide an option to cancel by email. As Tesco explained to Mr J its 
not a secure option. The email from Mr J was sent to an information address Mr J had used 
previously but there was no guarantee that this would have reached Tesco.  I cant  assume it 
did. He didnt provide the policy number in the email.
I understand Mr J objected to telephoning  as this wasnt a free number, and he couldnt have 
guaranteed any letter  would reach Tesco at the freepost address in time. It is however a 
number that is charged at local rates  (or within the contract minutes on a mobile account). I 
dont think its unreasonable to ask the consumer to telephone as an email could be sent by 
anyone, and there are consequences of being  uninsured which would need to be explained.  
The policy documents also give the option  of registering for an online account to register 
changes. Mr J was sent the renewal documents on 7 March  which  would have given him 
enough time to send  a letter if hed preferred to do that.
So as Mr Js email likely  wasnt received I dont think it was unreasonable to advise Mr J that 
his payment couldn't be taken, and of the consequences of cancelling the policy and of non-
Ref: DRN74893242payment. In such a large organisation such letters would go out automatically and I wouldnt 
expect Tesco to have  known of his circumstances.
As the policy was allowed to be cancelled without payment, and there were no adverse 
consequences for Mr J, I think Tesco acted reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7489324