K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Santander  UK plc only gave them £1,760 instead of £2,000 
when they made a cash withdrawal. When they discovered the error, Santander refused to 
correct it. 
background
Mr and Ms M hold a joint account with Santander.  In September 2018 Mr M went to a 
Santander branch  to withdraw £2,000. He was handed two sealed  bags, each said to 
contain £1,000 in £20 notes. 
Mr M then went to a post office to buy £1,000 worth of Euros. He handed over one of the 
bags, which  did indeed  contain £1,000. A couple  of weeks later,  he wanted to buy more 
Euros. Hes explained  that he took the second  bag to an Asda foreign exchange counter. 
This time, however, the cashier who served him counted the money  in the bag and found  
that it contained only £760   that is, it was £240 short. 
Mr and Ms M complained  to Santander. It checked its own records  and concluded that each  
bag had indeed  contained £1,000. There were no till discrepancies, the bags had been 
checked by two cashiers and Mr M had been given the opportunity  (which  he declined)  to 
have the money  counted in front of him. 
Mr M said that the bag he took to Asda had not been  opened or otherwise  tampered with. He 
invited Santander  and this service to check and seek  evidence from the individual at Asda. 
And he provided pictures of the bag. He also explained that another customer  had been  
making a large  cash deposit when hed attended the branch. That customers  money was 
also being bagged, and Mr M thought he might have  received one of those  bags in error. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint, but concluded  on balance  that both 
bags probably  had contained £1,000 when branch staff gave them  to Mr M. She didnt agree 
that Santander should refund the £260 that Mr and Ms M said was missing. Mr and Ms M 
didnt accept the investigators conclusions, however, and asked that an ombudsman  review 
them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The central question I have to answer  
here is a relatively  straightforward one: Did the second package that Santander gave  to 
Mr M contain £1,000  as Santander says or £760  as Mr and Ms M say? Answering that 
question is less straightforward, however,  and Ive considered the evidence very carefully.  
Ill deal first of all with a point that the investigator  made. She said that Mr M might have 
noticed the difference between the two bags when he collected  them,  since one contained 
rather less money than the other.  I dont agree with that, however. Both bags contained  £20 
notes, and I dont  believe the difference between 38 notes in one bag and 50 in the other 
would have been obvious, unless  someone  were intentionally making  a comparison. 
Nor do I find it particularly significant  that Mr M didnt request   as he could have done  that 
the money be counted in front of him when he was in the branch. No doubt  that would have 
avoided any later problems, but the issue here is about how much money he received, not 
the choices he made  when  he did so. 
Ref: DRN70880122Mr and Ms M say that the cashier  at Asda counted  out only £760. I have no reason to 
disbelieve that or to think that there was an error on the part of that individual. But the Asda 
cashier cant of course provide evidence about what happened in the two weeks or so before 
they were involved.  
I do however have quite  detailed  evidence  about  what happened at Santanders  branch. As 
Mr M says, another customer was paying  in a significant sum in cash at the same time. That 
deposit was being counted. Santander  says  and I accept  that it was an exact number  of 
thousands of pounds.  So the money was placed  in bags, each containing  £1,000, with 
nothing left over. 
The cashier who served Mr M only had one (pre-counted)  bag containing  £1,000 in £20 
notes. She therefore  took a similar  bag from her colleague who had just collected it from the 
other customer. Mr Ms recollection that he was given  a bag of money that another customer  
had just paid in is, therefore, correct.  But it too was a bag that had just had £1,000 counted  
into it. 
Santander says too, and again I accept, that both bags had been  counted  by two people. It 
says too that its tills balanced  that is, the amount of cash in the tills tallied  with the branchs 
receipts and payments. Of course,  that would be the case if the other customer had paid in 
£760 which had wrongly been  recorded as £1,000, and that bag had then been given to 
Mr M. That seems  unlikely, however,  especially since there were two cashiers involved in 
counting the cash. A difference of £240 might not have been apparent to Mr M when he 
received the bags, but I think it would have  been obvious to anyone involved in counting  it. 
For these reasons, I think it more likely than not that Mr M did receive a total of £2,000 from 
Santander. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to do anything  further to resolve  Mr 
and Ms Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr and Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7088012