K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a van he acquired via a leasing agreement with BNP Paribas Leasing 
Solutions Limited wasnt as described and its delivery was delayed by several months.
background 
In March 2018 Mr S ordered a van to lease  via BNP Paribas. He intended to use the van for 
his business. The lease was for two years and required payments of around £475 per 
month. Mr S also paid a deposit of £10,700.  Mr S says that at the end of the lease he was to 
become the owner of the van.
Mr S says at the time he placed his order he was told the van would be available within  a 
short period,  but it wasnt  actually delivered until August 2018. He says he was given a 
number of different  dates  on which the van was supposed to arrive which kept being  pushed 
back.
When Mr S received the van he realised that it didnt come with a factory  inbuilt rear view 
camera-trailer hitch assist which he had ordered, but came with an after-market  rear view 
camera instead. Mr S complained to the dealer who had ordered the van.
The dealer  offered Mr S a number of different resolutions to his complaint, namely:
To exchange the reverse camera fitted  with a different higher spec  after-market unit 
together with £250 compensation, or
Replace the van with one of the same spec with the hitch assist camera  on a like 
for like basis where he paid for the usage of the present van at the rate of £300pm to 
cover the miles already travelled, or
£1,000 compensation.
Mr S said that his preferred option was to have a replacement van, but he was unhappy  that 
the dealer wanted him to enter into a new two year contract meaning he would have to rent a 
van for an additional eight months  before he became the owner. The dealer said it thought  
its offers were reasonable and wasnt  prepared  to alter them.
Mr S complained to BNP Paribas. BNP Paribas said his complaint was for the dealership  to 
resolve as it was responsible for ordering  the van
Mr S complained to this service. He said not only was the van not as described  but, due to 
the delay in its delivery, hed incurred extra costs as hed had to arrange for alternative  
transport. He said the delay and extra rental costs hadnt been taken account  of with the 
solutions hed been offered.
Our investigator said that BNP Paribas was liable  as it had provided  the credit  agreement for 
the van which hadnt come as described. BNP Paribas accepted the complaint was correctly 
raised against it.
BNP Paribas offered  to unwind  the deal and return Mr Ss money  minus  £300 per month to 
cover the mileage undertaken by Mr S in the van for the duration of the agreement.
Ref: DRN71263232Our investigator said he thought this was a fair offer. He said it was accepted that Mr S had 
ordered a van with a certain  spec for its rear view camera and this van hadnt come  with this 
feature. 
Our investigator said he noted  that Mr S had raised his complaint within a short time of 
acquiring the van. And that both the dealer and BNP Paribas had looked at ways to resolve 
the complaint  which Mr S hadnt accepted. Mr S had been using the van in the meantime 
and it was fair for this usage  to be taken into account. He said it would be unfair to now 
exchange the van for a new one for the remaining period of the lease.
Our investigator said that the agreement should be cancelled and the van collected at no 
cost to Mr S. All of Mr Ss payments (including the deposit) would be reimbursed less £300 
per month for the months hed had use of the van.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  view that this was a fair offer.  He said it would be fair 
for the current van to be replaced by a new model for the remainder of the agreement. He 
also said that, had he been told in March  that the van wouldnt arrive until August, he would 
have cancelled the order. He said no account had been taken of the delay in receiving  the 
van that had resulted in him incurring  alternative transport costs and he had also lost 
business opportunities. 
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that in March 2018  Mr S ordered  a van that had a particular type of rear view 
camera and that the van that was delivered  didnt have  this feature. So, the van hadnt been 
as described and, when this occurs,  the usual remedy  is to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have  been had the misrepresentation of the goods not occurred. That is 
to return the goods,  cancel  the agreement and reimburse the consumer their money.
Ive also seen that under the terms and conditions of the lease BNP Paribas has very limited 
liability in respect of either the goods  being delayed in delivery,  or not being  delivered at all. 
Under the heading Exclusion of Liability at 6.2 it says that BNP Paribas shall not be liable 
(in contract,  tort or otherwise) by any claim,  damage  liability or loss (including consequential 
loss) or expenses of any kind arising directly  or indirectly in connection  with the goods  or 
from any delay in the delivery, of a failure  to deliver the goods  I think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr S to read the terms and conditions of the lease  as he signed  it to show  he 
was agreeing to its terms. 
Here, there were  discussions  between Mr S and the dealer as to alternative ways  to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Mr S said that the offers by the dealer  werent fair. He had concerns that 
the fitting of a different  camera could  impact the vans warranty,  or impact on its value, 
though the dealer says this wouldnt have been  the case. I dont have any evidence  whether 
changing the camera would or wouldnt have affected the warranty, or value, so Im not able 
to comment on that. Mr S also didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient, 
particularly given the length of time he had to wait for the van to be delivered.
Ref: DRN71263233Ive seen that the dealership, in an effort  to resolve Mr Ss complaint, offered to change  the 
van to a new one but had wanted to cancel the original lease, and issue  a new one for a 
period of two years.  Mr S says this was unfair as it meant he would  end up paying more  for 
the van as hed entered into the lease with the expectation that he would own it at the end of 
the two year period. By taking out a new lease he would  have  to pay additional months of 
rent that hed not planned for. 
However, I dont think replacing  the van with a new one for the remainder of the lease is a 
fair solution to Mr Ss complaint. Thats  because, although Mr S would have paid the same 
amount of rent as hed originally agreed  under the lease, he would  then own a newer van 
with a lower mileage, meaning it would have  a higher value than would have been the case  if 
the original one had fulfilled the specification. This would  place  him in a significantly better 
position than he would  have been  had the van been supplied  with the correct reversing 
camera. 
So, I think it would be fair for Mr S to reject the van and cancel the agreement with nothing 
further to pay. But Ive seen that Mr S has been able to use the van for his business. I cant 
reasonably ignore this usage  and it is usual that even when a vehicle is to be returned due to 
an agreement being unwound that the consumer pays towards their usage of that vehicle. 
Here the monthly  cost under  the lease was around  £475, but BNP Paribas has requested 
that Mr S pays a monthly  amount of £300pm to cover the mileage,  so the cost of his use is 
being discounted. Looking at this reduction  of around one third I dont think  a further amount 
of compensation  is warranted to take account of the cost to Mr S of the delay between order 
and delivery. 
Im aware that there can be many reasons for a delayed delivery which are outside the 
control of the dealer. Here  the dealership said it had been let down by its supplier. I dont 
have any evidence as to what was the cause, but I dont think I can reasonably  say the late 
delivery was due directly  to anything the dealer did or didnt do. I also have to take into 
account that under the leases terms and conditions BNP Paribas arent liable for any claim 
arising from a delay in delivery.
Ive seen that the dealership offered Mr S a solution of taking the pre-facelift model that 
would have been available earlier which Mr S declined. He said he wanted the newer model 
and I think that was a reasonable response. The dealership  also offered in May 2018 to 
reduce the charges for the document fee and sales fee contained in the lease agreement, 
together with compensation of £120  plus VAT. BNP Paribas also agreed to the lease being 
amended to reflect these reductions, which I think was reasonable and fair, as it wasnt 
obliged to do so under the terms of the lease.
Mr S was happy with the dealers offer at the time it was made  to reduce the charges  on the 
lease and Ive seen that these amendments were incorporated into the lease. Unfortunately 
Mr S wasnt  then provided with the van hed ordered. Im aware Mr S didnt  receive the 
compensation payment from the dealership as he rejected  the offer once the van was 
delivered. However, the dealership says it is still happy to make  this payment and so I think  
this is a matter for Mr S to raise with the dealers. I dont think I can reasonably  say that BNP 
Paribas should  be liable  to cover this payment looking at its limited liability under the lease.
So, looking  at the evidence, I think the resolution  offered by BNP Paribas was fair and Im 
not asking it to do more.
Ref: DRN71263234So I am asking BNP Paribas to do the following:
Collect the van at no cost to Mr S.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Reimburse him all the money  that he has paid less £300 per month for the time he 
has had use of the van, together  with interest  at the yearly  rate of 8% from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement
Remove this agreement from Mr Ss credit  file.
my final decision
As set out above I think the offer made to Mr S was fair. Im asking  BNP Paribas Leasing 
Solutions Limited to do the following:
Collect the van at no cost to Mr S.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Reimburse him all the money  that he has paid less £300 per month for the time he 
has had use of the van, together  with interest  at the yearly  rate of 8% from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement
Remove this agreement from Mr Ss credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7126323