K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Bs signed  credit application. On it is a section related to PPI 
and the box opting  for the PPI has been  ticked. If Mrs B hadnt wanted the policy she 
couldve ticked the No box  which has been left blank. On balance  I think Barclays 
made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mrs B says she wouldve 
received some sick pay from her employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
any employee benefits she wouldve received  and for up to 12 months if she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think she 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. It follows that I dont think Mrs B has lost 
out as a result of anything Barclays has done wrong.  
Ref: DRN78208202my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7820820