K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, on behalf of herself and the late Mr C, has complained that Nationwide Building  
Society mis-sold  them  two personal loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies.
background
The loans and PPI were taken out in 1998  and 2000. Although they were joint loans, the PPI 
was set up just by cover Mr C for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Mr C also took out a loan and PPI in just his name  in 1999.  That is the subject of another  
complaint that is being dealt with separately.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators decision  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C has said that she and the late Mr C didnt know that PPI had been added  to the loan 
accounts.
For the 1998 sale, Ive seen  the application  form that Mr and Mrs C filled in. In looks like they 
completed this on their own at home before returning it to a branch (because they have 
signed it on 20 June  1998 whereas the loan agreement  is dated 25 June 1998). The form 
contains a separate section for PPI with yes and no boxes to either  request or decline the 
PPI. The yes box has been  ticked and both Mr and Mrs C have signed in that section. 
The 1998  loan agreement  has a table of financial  information that includes a separate  
column for Optional  Credit Insurance. This details the cost of the PPI premium, interest 
payable, the total amount payable and the monthly  cost. Mr and Mrs C have also signed the 
loan agreement form.
The 2000  loan agreement  has the same  layout and description of costs as the 1998 
document. Again, Mr and Mrs C have both signed  the loan agreement.
Nationwide says it has a record that the sale in 2000 was made over the phone. From  what 
we know of Nationwides sales process, there would have  been  some discussion about PPI 
and then the loan agreement was printed  out afterwards and sent to the applicant. If 
someone didnt  want  PPI then there would be no mention of it on the loan agreement. 
Ive no doubt that Mrs C has provided her genuine  recollection of events. But the sales 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory of events has 
faded. Ive thought very carefully about  what Mrs C has said.  However,  based  on the 
available evidence I consider that Mr and Mrs C were aware of the policies and that they 
Ref: DRN79165592were an optional extra to the loans. It seems  to me that they decided  to buy them, knowing 
that they didnt  have  to.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs C to buy the policies, so it didnt need to ensure that 
they met their needs. But it did need to provide  enough information for them to make  an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them.
I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have  known something about the PPI  that it would 
have covered their loan repayments if Mr C was unable to work  because I dont think 
theyd have decided  to buy the policy without  knowing anything  at all about it.
Mr C would have received some sick pay from his employer.  But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for longer  than Mr C would have received full 
pay for. And Mr and Mrs C didnt have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. 
Mrs C says that Mr C could have relied on his wages,  but of course  the insurance was there  
to cover the loan repayments if Mr C was unable to work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment and so wasnt receiving an income.
Mrs C says that she was also working and so could have covered the repayments. But she 
has also said that they were experiencing financial difficulty and struggled to meet the loan 
repayments, even  when there were two salaries coming in. From what Mrs C has said,  if 
Mr C had been unable  to work, they would have quickly come to the point where they would  
have found it difficult to meet the loan repayments.  Therefore I consider that they had a need  
for the PPI and could have benefitted  from it at what would  have been  a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider they had an interest in the cover and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds. So Mr and 
Mrs C werent  any worse  off as a result  of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that Nationwide  needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs C and the estate of Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7916559