K820x#14complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the way a claim for fire under her home insurance policy  has been 
handled by Allianz Insurance Plc and the settlement its offered her.
background
Mrs O made  a claim to Allianz  in May 2011  after a fire in her living room. Allianz accepted 
the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster to manage it. It arranged  for Mrs Os undamaged 
furniture and other items to be placed in storage  while repairs were  carried  out by Mrs Os 
builder.
Allianz says its settled the buildings claim in full. Mrs O says some items are still 
outstanding. 
The contents claim for the damaged  items hasnt been settled.  Allianz obtained a court order  
in 2017 authorising it to dispose of the items held in storage and the court awarded it £8,000 
costs.
In summary  Mrs O has complained that:
1. Allianz didnt give her the option  of it carrying out the repairs.
2. The loss adjuster didnt list the full extent of the works at the outset.
3. Allianz didnt appoint a surveyor to oversee the works.
4. The contents claim was agreed  in 2012 but hasnt  been paid. 
5. Her builder left the site because of a 10 week delay in paying him. 
6. Some repair invoices are still outstanding.
7. Allianz wont pay to replace her boiler  which  was smoke-damaged and a gas fire.
8. The storage of the contents  was handled  badly by the supplier  appointed  by Allianz. 
9. She hasnt been able to speak to anyone  at Allianz about  her claim other  than a 
contact in the complaints department.
Our investigator said he couldnt  look at matters which  had been  raised  in two earlier 
complaints made by Mrs O to Allianz because they werent referred  to this service within six 
months of the final response letters from Allianz relating to them and Allianz  hadnt  
consented to us doing so. He didnt think we could  look at Mrs Os complaint about storage 
because that had already been  considered in court. He didnt uphold  the rest of Mrs Os 
complaint.
As Mrs O didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen, theres  no evidence  that Mrs O didnt  want to use her own contractors 
or was pressured into doing so by Allianz. She appears to have had her own builder lined up 
from an early  stage  and willingly got other  estimates as a comparison with his quote. 
The full extent of building  works  often  isnt apparent at the outset. That isnt necessarily  
anyones fault.  What is important is that when theres a need for additional  works,  the insurer  
Ref: DRN75056942should respond reasonably to that request.  I can see thats what happened in this case and 
when a revised estimate was presented, Allianz  increased its settlement offer for building  
works from £19,815 plus VAT to £25,576 plus VAT. There doesnt seem  to be any dispute 
about the quality of the works carried out by Mrs Os builder,  so I cant see that the failure by 
Allianz to appoint a surveyor  to oversee  the works  has prejudiced her.
A complaint was made  to Allianz in December  2011 about the time taken to settle Mrs Os 
contents claim. Allianz issued a final response in respect of that complaint on 
8 February 2012.  As explained  by our investigator, Im unable  to look at that part of Mrs Os 
complaint because it wasnt referred  to this service within  six months of the final response 
and Allianz hasnt agreed to us looking at it.
Another complaint  was made to Allianz  in February  2015. This was about  the general  
handling of the claim,  including the late payment to Mrs Os builder and the proposed 
settlements. This included  a number of invoices  submitted by Mrs O that hadnt been  
accepted by Allianz and the replacement boiler  and gas fire. Allianz issued a final response 
on 22 April 2015. So for the reason explained above I cant  look at this aspect of Mrs Os 
complaint either.
Part of Mrs Os complaint  in relation  to the storage  of items  recovered from her home has 
been the subject of court proceedings. I agree with our investigator that its not appropriate for 
me to look at this aspect. This includes the issue of costs deducted from the contents claim.
There have been  long periods during the course of this claim when the parties  havent been  
communicating with each  other. I dont think  that this has been  due to Mrs O not having  a 
point of contact  within  Allianz. Over the course of the claim a number of people have been 
involved on the business side and from what Ive seen Allianz  took reasonable steps at each 
stage to make Mrs O know  whom she should contact and why.
In her response to the investigators view Mrs O said she didnt think Allianz was entitled to 
rely on the fact that due to a limitation period of six years she was out of time to bring her 
contents claim. Our investigator has checked  this with Allianz and its confirmed that its offer 
of £15,000 for contents is still open for acceptance by her.
I appreciate that Mrs O will be disappointed by my findings but overall  on the matters which I 
have considered as part of this complaint Im not persuaded Allianz  has treated her unfairly 
or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505694