K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that after agreeing to switch her account to TSB Bank plc, its IT issues  
caused her to spend a lot of time holding on the phone  and she had been unable  to log on 
and access her new bank  account. She also complains that it took over a year for her to be 
paid the £75 switching incentive.  
background
TSB upheld  Mrs S complaint in relation to the IT issues it experienced. It acknowledged  Mrs 
S had been  unable to log into her account  and offered her £60 for the financial loss this 
caused her, and £150 for the trouble and upset  she experienced. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ss complaint and agreed that TSBs offer was fair. 
He also recommended it pay Mrs S the £75 fee for switching her account to it. 
In June 2019, Mrs S contacted the service to explain that she had still not received the £75. 
One of our adjudicators got in touch with TSB, and shortly after the payment was made  to 
her. However, Mrs S considered it took a number  of months for TSB to eventually  pay the 
£75, so she didnt  think the compensation she had been paid was enough. She thought that 
the compensation she had been  paid for TSBs system issues  was separate  to the hassle of 
having to chase the £75 payment.  So she thought hse should  receive  compensation for the 
delay in receiving  that money, as well as the compensation for TSBs  system issues.  
Our adjudicator didnt  agree and concluded  that TSB neednt  pay any further compensation.  
As there was no agreement, the case was passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Ss comments. I can see that she has asked for an additional £200 
compensation for the delay in paying  her the £75 fee she says she was entitled to. 
TSB has said that there are some doubts  as to whether  Mrs S and her husband wife were in 
fact entitled to the switching fee. It said that had their account qualified for the incentive,  it 
wouldve been paid automatically. However, regardless, it has decided to pay the amount to 
Mrs S without investigating her eligibility  further.  
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs S was entitled to the £75. So Im satisfied that it took far 
longer than it should have  to pay it to her. 
The question is, therefore, whether  TSB ought  to compensate Mrs S for the stress  and 
inconvenience she says she experienced as a result of this delay.
When our adjudicator wrote to both parties  in August 2018, he asked TSB to pay Mrs S the 
£75 as well as the compensation it had already offered to pay. TSB didnt do so, and Mrs S 
contacted our service  again in June 2019 to complain that this hadnt  happened.  
In putting matters right, this services  approach  isnt to punish businesses or over 
compensate consumers. Its to put to the consumer back in the position they wouldve been  
Ref: DRN78868182in had there been no error. Not all errors by a business will mean that a consumer is entitled 
to monetary compensation. Sometimes, putting the error right is sufficient to remedy any 
injustice which has been caused. 
I can understand why Mrs S considers she is entitled  to additional compensation, but Im not 
persuaded that would  be fair. I say this firstly because asking TSB to pay Mrs S £200 would 
put Mrs S in a much better  position  than she wouldve been had TSB simply paid the £75 in 
2018. 
But Ive also taken into account Mrs S didnt contact  this service until June 2019 to query the 
missing payment  which indicates to me that the matter didnt cause her undue stress  or 
inconvenience during that time.  And once she did get in touch, the matter was resolved very 
quickly. 
Im therefore  satisfied that in paying  the £75 to Mrs S, TSB has put matters right and neednt  
do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSBs  offer of £210  (which includes £60 for costs incurred) is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  consider it needs to make a further payment for the delay in crediting 
Mrs Ss account with the £75 switching incentive. I understand this payment has already 
been made to Mrs S and therefore  I dont  require TSB to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7886818