K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Billing 
Finance Ltd.
background
In June 2018 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Billing Finance.
Mr P experienced issues with the car including a battery fault and the car losing power  and 
going into limp mode. He reported the issues to Billing Finance  who advised him to obtain a 
diagnostic.
The car was inspected by the supplying dealer and the battery  was replaced. The car was 
returned to Mr P but he continued to experience issues with the car going  into limp mode.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer in August  2018  for further repairs. These took 
approximately 2 months to complete. During  this time, Mr P told Billing Finance that he 
wanted to reject the car due to the continuing  faults  and a discrepancy with the garage about 
a reconditioned part being used  to replace the faulty turbo instead of the new part Mr P said 
he had been told would  be used.
Billing Finance  advised Mr P that he couldnt  reject  the car until the repairs had been  
completed and only then if the repairs  had been unsuccessful.
Following completion of the repairs Mr P experienced issues  with the turbo making a noise. 
An independent inspection of the car was arranged  which concluded that the car was 
operating as it should without excessive noise. Billing Finance declined Mr Ps request to 
reject the car.
Mr P remained unhappy  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said Billing Finance had attempted repairs on 
more than one occasion, all of which had been  unsuccessful until the final repairs when the 
turbo was replaced.  The investigator said that Mr P hadnt authorised the new turbo 
replacement because hed communicated his request to reject the car before this repair  took 
place. The investigator felt that Mr P should be allowed  to reject the car.
Billing Finance  didnt  agree. It said the initial attempts at repairing the car hadnt been 
arranged by them and therefore didnt count as an opportunity for it to carry out repairs. It 
also said that after he had made  his complaint, Mr P had said he wanted to proceed with 
repairs and keep the car. Billing Finance didnt think it could be held responsible  for the 
delays in completing the repairs because  the delivery time for the part was only estimated. It 
said that following  the final repairs, the car was in satisfactory  condition  and that there was 
no basis for rejection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77891042Because Billing Finance  supplied the car under a hire purchase  agreement theres an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person  
would regard as acceptable taking into account  factors such  as the age and mileage  of the 
car and the price  paid.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair a fault.  If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject  the car.
Mr P experienced issues with the car within the first 30 days. He reported  the issues  within  
the first 30 days and (according to Billing  Finance) was said he had arranged a diagnostic. 
Mr Ps version of events  is slightly different. He says he was advised by Billing  Finance to 
contact the supplying dealer to arrange a diagnostic.
This discrepancy in the version of events is important because  Billing Finance has said that 
it wasnt involved in any of the arrangements for repair when the fault first presented itself. I 
cant be certain of exactly what was discussed with Mr P when he first reported the issues  to 
Billing Finance.  However, I think its unlikely that Mr P wouldve  arranged a diagnostic  so far 
away from his home  if he hadnt  been  referred  to the garage  that carried  out the diagnostic  
by the supplying dealer. On the balance of evidence I think its more  likely that Billing  
Finance advised  Mr P to contact the supplying dealer to arrange a diagnostic and, if 
necessary, any repairs. This is in line with what I would have expected  Billing Finance to do.
Billing Finance  has said that it wasnt offered the opportunity  to carry out repairs. I dont 
agree. From  the point at which Mr P told Billing  Finance about the faults,  it could have made 
arrangements for the car to be inspected and repaired. Im not suggesting  that Billing 
Finance would have carried  out repairs itself. But I would have expected it to ask the 
supplying dealer to carry  out repairs. I dont think its reasonable for Billing  Finance to say 
that it wasnt given  the opportunity to carry out repairs.
I can see that there were  two attempts at repair in July 2018, both of which were 
unsuccessful. I think  Mr P shouldve been  allowed to reject the car at this point. Billing 
Finance has said that Mr P still wanted to keep  the car at this time. Based on what  Ive seen, 
I think Mr P wanted have further repairs carried out and keep the car. But I think his view 
changed in September 2018 when Mr P became frustrated  with the length of time that the 
repairs were taking and about the fact that a reconditioned (as opposed to a brand new) part 
was being used in the repairs. The attempt to repair the car using the reconditioned turbo 
was unsuccessful and Mr P was advised of this on 18 September  2018.  I can see that Mr P 
wrote to Billing Finance on 20 September 2018 and asked to reject  the car. I think Mr P 
shouldve been  allowed  to reject the car at this point as the repairs  had been  unsuccessful.  
Further repairs were carried out to the car after this which  included  replacing the turbo.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mr P authorised these repairs. Even  though the new 
turbo seems to have  resolved the issue, I dont think it was reasonable to carry out further 
repairs after Mr P had asked to reject the car following  three unsuccessful attempts at repair.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that there has been  more than one attempt at 
repair, all of which were unsuccessful except  the final repair, which  wasnt authorised by Mr 
P. I think Mr P should be allowed to reject the car.
Ref: DRN77891043my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Billing Finance Ltd must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr P.
Refund the deposit together  with simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund Mr Ps monthly payment for July, August and September  2018
Pay £200 for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7789104