K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that he was advised  to make  two unsuitable investments by Swan  
Securities and Investments, an appointed representative (AR) of Kession  Capital  Limited.
background
Mr M made two investments through the AR.  Both of these investments failed and this 
prompted Mr M to complain.  He considers he was advised to make the investments.
Kession did not uphold  the complaint.  It said that the AR was not authorised  to give advice 
about the investments and there is no evidence that it did.
An investigator looked at the complaint and agreed  with what Kession said.  
I didnt agree and on 13 November  2018 I issued a provisional decision explaining  why.  In 
this I said:
Via his representative Mr M has complained that he was advised to make  the two 
investments.  The phone call in which the advice  was allegedly given  wasnt recorded or the 
recording isnt now available.  Kession argues that no advice was given and in any event the 
AR agreement did not authorise Swan  to give advice  to retail clients such as Mr M.  I dont 
think there is enough evidence to safely conclude  that Mr M was advised.
There can often be a fine line between  the providing of information and giving advice.  When  
bringing a complaint to the ombudsman  service a consumer is not expected  to understand 
the technicalities  of financial regulation  including the precise  nature  of what  is and isnt 
advice.  The role of the ombudsman  service  is to establish what  the complaint  is, at heart, 
about.
What is not in dispute is that Mr M had a conversation with an employee of Swan and as a 
result of that conversation decided to make  an investment.  Whilst this conversation might 
not have amounted to advice it was the key factor in Mr M deciding  to make the investment.  
At heart Mr Ms concerns centre on what he was told in this phone  conversation.  I therefore 
dont think my consideration of his complaint should  be restricted to the question  of whether 
advice was given  or not.  I consider it reasonable to look at things in the round and, based  
on what evidence there is, decide  whether Swan did anything wrong.     
Whilst the call might not have been advice I am satisfied it was a financial promotion.  There 
are rules  governing financial  promotions.   I will therefore consider whether these rules were 
followed by Swan  and also whether Kession is responsible for the actions of Swan.
Swan Securities and Investments Limited  was an AR of Kession for the period 30 March  
2015 to 5 September 2016.
The first investment Mr M made was in the Aegis  Power  Bond.  This  investment was made 
in October 2015.   This is therefore in the period that Swan was an AR of Kession.  Therefore 
Kession might be responsible for the actions of Swan in respect  of this investment.  
The second  investment made was in Earthwater.  This investment was made in November 
2016.  This is outside the period when Swan was an AR of Kession.  However,  it is quite 
close to the end date.  It is possible that the investment was initiated  when  Swan was an AR 
of Kession but there was a delay in processing the application.  There is, however, no 
Ref: DRN76500442evidence that supports  this.  In the absence of any such evidence  my conclusion is that 
Kession isnt responsible for this investment.
A number  of tests have  to be met before  a complaint  can be considered by this service.  The  
ones relevant to this particular complaint are:
The activity being complained of must  be a regulated activity or an activity ancillary to 
one.
The principal must  have accepted responsibility  for the activities of its AR.
In my view all of the above tests  have been  met.
I am satisfied that Swan promoted and arranged the purchase,  by Mr M, of the Aegis Power  
Bond.  The  final paragraph of the script (approved by Kession) used by Swan to promote the 
bond says:
All understood? OK well unless you have any further question  I will now send you an 
introductory email which  will contain some further  information on this. It will also contain a 
link to our website which will allow you to open  a non obligatory, non advisory account which 
you would  have to complete were you to wish to proceed with an investment. I will, with your 
permission give you a call back in the next day or two to answer any questions  that may 
arise from this email. 
Good bye
Therefore as part of the process of making the investment in the bond Mr M was required to 
open a non advisory account with Swan.
On 19 October 2015 Swan emailed a confirmation of his purchase order to Mr M.  Mr M 
invested around £15,000 in the Aegis Power Bond.  Mr M was asked to send payment to an 
account with Beaufort Asset Clearing Limited (who acted for Aegis Power Bond).  I am 
satisfied this is evidence  that Swan arranged, and promoted the investment in the Aegis  
Power bond.  I am satisfied that Beaufort was acting for the issuer of the bonds  and that Mr 
M wasnt  a customer of Beaufort.  Mr M later transferred his holding to an ISA operated  by 
Beaufort Securities  but that is a separate issue in my view.
I am not persuaded by Kessions arguments  that Swan was only acting as an introducer to 
Beaufort and that Mr M was a customer of Beaufort and not Swan.   The instructions at the 
end of the script quoted  above clearly evidence that an account would be set up with Swan.  
Whilst there is no documentary evidence to support this I dont think this is material.  Whilst a 
customer relationship  is usually evidenced by account opening documentation  it isnt always  
necessary.  
What is clear from the purchase  confirmation is that Swan arranged  the purchase of the 
Aegis Power Bond and this purchase was arranged following a conversation between Swan 
and Mr M.  
I am therefore satisfied  that Swan  promoted and arranged the purchase by Mr M of the 
Aegis Power Bond.  The bond was a debenture which  is a designated investment as per 
article 77 of the Regulated  Activities Order (RAO).  In  promoting and arranging the purchase 
of the debenture Swan was carrying out the regulated activity of arranging  deals in 
investments (article 25(1) of the RAO).    
Ref: DRN76500443Whether Kession  is responsible for the activities of Swan is decided by a consideration of 
the AR agreement.  The AR agreement  sets out the activities that Kession accepts 
responsibility for. The AR agreement says the following about the activities that Swan can 
carry out on behalf of Kession
Section B
The AR has agreed to advise on and arrange  deals in designated investments for 
professional clients  and eligible counterparties. [The AR will not advise on and arrange  deals 
with retail clients or US resident citizens.]
In circumstances  where clients do not satisfy the criteria to opt-up to elective professional  
status, the AR may treat them as retail  clients and conduct business  with them  as such  
insofar as it is restricted to promoting and arranging only.  The AR is not permitted to give 
advice to retail clients. 
The Appointer acknowledges  that the AR will conduct capital raising and arranging activities  
via the issuance of corporate bonds  for power projects.
The activities that Kession authorised the AR to carry out on its behalf (for retail  clients  such 
as Mr M) were therefore limited to promoting and arranging  deals in investments.  The  above  
makes clear  that the AR is not allowed to advise retail clients.   It is clear  from the above  that 
Kession envisaged that Swan  would  promote and arrange deals in bonds  such as the 
Aegis Power Bond.  
I am therefore satisfied  that Swan  promoted and arranged the purchase of the Aegis Power 
Bond by Mr M.  This was an activity that Kession authorised Swan  to carry out.  Kession  is 
therefore responsible for the actions  of Swan in promoting and arranging  the purchase  of the 
Aegis bonds.  This is therefore a complaint that we can look at. 
the merits of the complaint
The Aegis Wind  bonds were  a particular type of bond  a debenture.  A debenture is a bond 
secured on a particular  asset or group of assets.  In this case the assets backing the bond 
were to be wind generating  turbines  operated by the parent  company of Aegis Power  Bonds 
Ltd - Aegis Power.  
COBS 4.2 requires a firm to make  sure that any financial promotion  is fair, clear and not 
misleading.  
Kession approved a promotional script to be used by Swan  when promoting  the Aegis Wind 
Bond to retail investors such as Mr M.  I reproduce  the script in its entirety below:
Good day, is that Mr/Mrs ?
Hello, my name is  and I am calling from SSI. I believe  you have recently  left your details 
on our landing page requesting more information regarding one of our commercial bonds, is 
that the case?  
Ok, great.  In which case, let me first introduce our company briefly,  SSI is an FCA regulated 
broking house  based here in the City. We are Appointed  Representatives of Kession Capital 
who are also fully regulated. For that reason, as Im sure you can understand, there  are 
some regulatory requirements we need  to comply  with prior to any transactions  taking place. 
Ref: DRN76500444But before we start down that path,  lets discuss the reason  you made contact  with us. i.e. 
the Aegis Wind  Bond.  
Do you currently have  any exposure to the bond  market? Do you understand the concept  of 
investing in bonds? 
Well let me give you the specifics of this particular bond so you can make an informed 
decision as to whether  this is suitable  for you:
The Aegis Wind  Bond is being offered to clients for the purpose of raising funds to allow the 
Company to continue  to grow its portfolio of wind turbines. Aegis  currently has 200 sites 
across the UK and Ireland,  70 of which are plugged  into the grid with the remainder being  
shovel ready. Aegis Power has a 45 acre site in Toomebridge, Northern Ireland, where the 
turbines are manufactured with the capacity  to produce four new turbines per month. 
Currently the UK offers attractive  and secure  government backed incentives for the 
operation of medium sized wind turbines of up to 250kW (Northern Ireland) and 500kW  
(mainland Great Britain) in maximum generation capacity. The government incentivises the 
operation of these  sizes  of turbine by granting  Renewable Obligation Certificates to wind 
turbines for every megawatt hour MWh.  In addition to the ROCs, the energy producer is paid 
for each  unit of electricity  (kWh) exported to the grid via power purchase agreements  
(PPAs) with appropriate counterparties, such as co-located industrial energy consumers or 
wholesale energy purchasers. This combination results in a secure  revenue  stream from the 
commercial operation date, underpinned by a sector that is Government  backed with a 
payment structure  of up to 20 years. 
Aegis have  PPAs in place with Power NI, who are a subsidiary  of Viridian, a major UK 
energy provider with a market capitalisation in excess of £200m. Under these agreements,  
Viridian are bound to purchase all energy generated by Aegis for the next ten years.  It is also 
worth mentioning that all the turbines etc are fully insured by a major UK insurer  and by fully 
insured I mean there is construction risk insurance, delayed start-up insurance, operational 
insurance, loss of income/business interruption insurance, wind turbine insurance 
(mechanical breakdown,  all risks,  loss of income) and grid failure insurance so all bases  
covered you could say!
So I hope that gives you some insight into the underlying business of Aegis Power  PLC.  I 
would now like to discuss the specifics of the bond itself if I may.  Before  I proceed,  do you 
have any questions pertaining to what we have discussed so far? 
OK. So the bond itself is paying  a 10% coupon which  is paid monthly so effectively you will 
be receiving an interest  payment of 0.833% on your invested capital  at the end of each 
month. 
The bond  is a senior secured bond  which means  that investors have the first and only 
charge on Company assets should  the Company fail to meet its obligations as per the bond 
agreement.
The bond  is also listed on the GXG  main  quote exchange meaning greater security and 
liquidity for the investor. It is trading at par on the exchange. 
All understood? OK well unless  you have  any further  question  I will now send you an 
introductory email which  will contain some further  information on this. It will also contain a 
link to our website which will allow you to open  a non obligatory, non advisory account which 
you would  have to complete were you to wish to proceed with an investment. I will, with your 
permission give you a call back in the next day or two to answer any questions  that may 
arise from this email. 
Good bye
However, comparing the above with the information contained in the Aegis Power Bond offer 
document and the Aegis Power  accounts  I consider the above  script contains material  
inaccuracies.  The result of this is that in my view the script fails to meet  the regulatory 
requirement to be fair, clear and not misleading.   
Ref: DRN76500445The script contains the following statements:  
The Aegis Wind Bond is being offered to clients for the purpose of raising funds to allow the 
Company to continue  to grow its portfolio of wind turbines.
This statement is incorrect.  Aegis  Power intended to operate wind turbines but at the time of 
the bond issue it operated none.   It had no operations and had not traded.
 
Aegis currently has 200 sites across the UK and Ireland, 70 of which are plugged into the 
grid with the remainder  being shovel ready.
This statement is also incorrect.   Aegis had no operational  sites.   The  2015  accounts record 
an intention to eventually  operate 200 sites but at the time of the bond issue none  were 
operating.
Aegis have PPAs in place with Power NI, who are a subsidiary  of Viridian, a major UK 
energy provider with a market capitalisation in excess of £200m. Under these agreements,  
Viridian are bound to purchase all energy generated by Aegis for the next ten years.
I can see no evidence that this is true.  It is not mentioned either in the offer document or any 
of the accounts  issued  by Aegis.  The only reference  to PPAs is a reference that it was its 
intention to enter into PPAs.  Without any operating assets it is hard to see how a PPA could 
be agreed.
Aegis Power has a 45 acre site in Toomebridge,  Northern Ireland, where the turbines are 
manufactured with the capacity to produce  four new turbines per month.
This statement is incorrect.  The manufacturing site referred to is actually  owned  by the 
company that Aegis intended  to contract  to build turbines for it.
The bond  is described as being  a senior secured bond having first call on the companies 
assets.  At  the point of issue  Aegis Power had a negative net worth.  Money  was being 
raised to establish  wind turbine sites.  The costs  of establishing this would in all probability 
require a significant proportion of the money raised.   Given  Aegis Powers lack of assets and 
operations it would also appear that the money  raised would to some  extent be used to 
make interest payments.
The offer document says that Aegis  Power would deposit with Beaufort  a sum representing 
the first years interest payment.  However,  the parent company had no operations  and a 
negative net worth.  It was not in a position to deposit the promised amount of around  £1m to 
support payment of bond interest other than from the money  raised by the bond  issue.   
Investors interest payments would at least initially  appear to be paid to them out of the 
capital raised.
Aegis Power was therefore a start up company with no assets other  than the money to be 
raised by the bond issue.  It had no operating assets  and had not traded.
However, the impression  given  in the above  script  is that Aegis  Power is a well established, 
substantial company with significant operations (operating over 200 sites).   To potential 
investors it was presented  as having  a secure  revenue stream with extensive  insurance 
policies in place  to provide further  protection.  
Ref: DRN76500446In the script prepared  by Swan  and approved  by Kession no mention is made of any of the 
risks associated with the bond.  The offer document makes clear  that the bond  should be 
considered to be a high risk investment saying:
An investment in the Company involves a high degree of risk 
In making a promotion involving a potential loss of capital the FCA rules require this to be 
made clear to potential  investors (COBS 4.2.4G).  The script doesnt  make any reference  to 
the risk of capital loss or for that matter  any of the risks associated with the project.   
I therefore consider  that the approved script gave a highly misleading view of Aegis and its 
prospects  and as a result failed to meet the regulatory requirement to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading.  
Before this investment  Mr M had no history of making investments in risk based assets.  I 
consider it unlikely that an investor with no such history would, for his first risk investment 
invest in a high risk investment.  I therefore  consider that if the true nature of the investment 
and the high level of risk associated with it had been made clear to Mr M he would not have 
gone ahead  with the investment.
Because of this I consider  that the complaint  should be upheld.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr M 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not invested  in the Aegis 
Power Bond.   
I think Mr M would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what he would 
have done.  The Aegis Power Bond was, in my view, represented as a relatively low risk 
investment that would generate a stable and reliable income stream.  Mr M was, however, 
clearly looking to achieve a better return than that available  on a deposit account  which 
suggests he was open to taking at least some risk.  Given this I am satisfied that what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable.   
what should  Kession do? 
To compensate Mr M fairly, Kession must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Kession should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Mr M £250 for the upset caused  by the loss of his savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment status benchmark from (start to (end additional  
Ref: DRN76500447name date) date) interest
Aegis 
Power  
Bondstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Kession  taking  
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Kession to take ownership,  
then it may request  an undertaking  from Mr M that he repays to Kession any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Kession 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Kession totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  a reasonable return on his savings without taking much risk.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
Ref: DRN76500448The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk.  So, the 50/50  combination would reasonably put Mr M 
into that position. It does not mean  that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money 
in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker  fund.  Rather, I consider 
this a reasonable compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr M could have 
obtained from investments suited  to his risk attitude.  
Kession did not agree  with my provisional conclusions.  It made the following main points:
It is possible that the conversation Mr M had with the AR was not a key factor  in his 
deciding to make the investment.  It is possible that Mr M had already decided to go 
ahead with the investment before speaking to the AR.  Mr M was aware of the 
investment before  the phone call with the AR. 
Despite telling the ombudsman service that the script quoted in the provisional 
decision was the correct one, this is not correct.  The  reference  to the GXG market 
which ceased to operate  in August 2015  (Mr Ms investment  was made in October 
2015) shows this is not the correct script.
It reiterated that the AR was not allowed to give advice and that there was no 
evidence to suggest that it did.
Aegis usually targeted high net worth or sophisticated investors.  So  it is possible that 
this is an accurate description of Mr M.
The documentation  for the bond provided  to Mr M makes clear  the high risk nature of 
the investment.   It therefore considers that Mr M was aware  of the high risk of the 
investment.  This was something Mr M specifically complains that he was not told 
about. 
In another  high risk investment, which is not the responsibility of Kession, Mr M 
signed a sophisticated investor form.
It asked me to confirm  that Mr M had not recorded his conversation with the AR.
Mr Ms representative agreed with my provisional decision.  He  also asked for other high risk 
investments made by Mr M through the firm to be considered.  These are being considered 
in a separate complaint.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to change  my view on this complaint.
Ref: DRN76500449Mr M has confirmed  that he did not record his conversation with the AR.
It is not clear  how Mr M first became aware  of the investment.  He has said he was cold 
called by the AR.  However, the bond was advertised  on a number of websites and Mr M 
may have  indicated his interest on one of these  sites.   However,  any information publicly 
available was only be a summary of the bond and its features and required investors  to 
make contact with a promoter  for further  information.  
The arguments put forward by Kession are essentially that the phone  call was not a key 
factor in Mr Ms decision  to invest.   It has said that either Mr M was a knowledgeable 
investor who decided  to invest either based  on his own research or based on what  was in 
the investment  memorandum.   
I am not persuaded by this argument.  Mr M has said that apart from other  investments  of 
this type purchased through the AR he has no experience of investing in risk based 
investments.  On an application  form for one of these later investments Mr M did sign to 
indicate he was a sophisticated  investor.  I am not persuaded this is accurate.  The form is 
not in the correct format for a sophisticated investor  certificate and does not define the 
necessary requirements  to be a sophisticated  investor.  In particular it does not record the 
type of investments Mr M had experience of and does not contain the required risk warnings. 
It remains my view that what  was said in the phone call was the key to Mr Ms decision to 
invest.  
In my view a conversation  about  an investment is generally a more effective method of 
getting investors to go ahead with an investment than merely providing them with a written 
document  particularly for inexperienced investors.   It is interactive and so concerns can be 
dealt with there and then.   Prospectuses  contain  large amounts of material and are generally  
hard for typical retail  investors to understand.    
It is also clear  that Mr M has complained about  what he considers to be the advice he was 
given by the AR.  Any such advice would have been given in the phone  call he had with the 
AR.  So Mr M has specifically complained about  what was said in the phone call  not what  
was in the information memorandum.  
I do not consider  the date of the script to be an issue.  I accept that since the document  was 
originally approved one fact in the script - the exchange the bond was to be listed  on - had 
changed.  However, I dont think this means that it is safe to assume  that this was not, in 
essence, the script that was followed in Mr Ms call with the AR.  The  script in my view is 
intended to draw out the key features of the memorandum and present this to investors.  
However, there was only one memorandum and apart from the listing  detail I can see no 
reason why this minor change to the script would necessitate further change.  It therefore 
remains my view that it is reasonable to work  on the assumption that the script provided is a 
reasonable guide to what  was discussed between  the AR and Mr M.
It remains my view that this script  and the resulting conversation wasnt fair, clear and not 
misleading.  
Kession arguments  are essentially  that other information Mr M had or had received such  as 
the information memorandum were the key factors in Mr Ms decision to invest.  For the 
reasons given above I am satisfied that the conversation  Mr M had with the AR was the key 
factor in his decision to invest.  I also consider that if he had had not been given a 
misleading impression  of Aegis Mr M would not have made the investment.  
Ref: DRN765004410Kession has not commented on the redress proposed in my provisional decision.   It 
therefore remains my view that the redress set out above is appropriate.    
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.  I direct Kession Capital Limited to 
pay the fair compensation set out above to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7650044