K820x#14complaint
This complaint relates to a claim made  under Mrs Ts Home Care  policy  with British  Gas 
Insurance Limited. Following the claim  in early 2018  Mr and Mrs T were left with a hole in the 
bathroom wall, no water supply to the bath and were unable  to use the shower.
background
Mr and Mrs T made a claim under the Home  Care policy in January 2018  as there was a 
problem with the hot water from the bath.  A heating engineer attended and confirmed  it was 
a plumbing problem and so British  Gas arranged for a plumber to attend. The plumber  
concluded the problem was with the bath taps and that they needed to be replaced. When 
investigating the problem the plumber removed two large tiles and opened a hole in the false  
wall (boxing in the water  pipes) in order to access the pipes.
Due to missed appointments, misinformation and delays in repair a complaint was made.  
British Gas upheld  the complaint and Mr and Mrs T accepted  the cost of the replacement 
taps (£229) to settle the complaint about those  issues as at that stage of the claim. 
In June 2018 the matter was again  raised with British Gas as the issues with the bathroom 
had still not been resolved. Mrs T also referred  the complaint  to this service.  We requested 
information from British  Gas, but postponed  considering the merits of the case  while  it was 
established what the situation  with the claim was and then while  repairs were done.
In August  2018  a plumber attended  to fit the new taps. Unfortunately, it didnt solve  the 
problem Mr and Mrs T had reported at the beginning of the year. It was determined the 
problem was actually  unrelated to the taps;  rather it was a problem with the boiler. The 
problem was fixed when  a heating engineer attended. However, Mrs T was left with a hole in 
her bathroom wall and had unnecessarily paid out for new taps that were not needed. A new 
complaint was raised with British Gas and Mr and Mrs T asked us to continue consideration 
of the complaint, including  the new issue that had come to light.
Our investigator raised  the issue of the hole in Mr and Mrs Ts bathroom wall with British  
Gas. It initially said its records showed that just tiles had been removed from the wall. It also 
pointed out that its terms and conditions said repairs to tiling and decoration were not 
covered by the policy. A photograph  of the hole was given to British Gas and it was 
highlighted that there had been no need  for the damage to have been caused  it had only 
happened because  of a misdiagnosis  of the problem  Mr and Mrs T had reported.
Mr and Mrs T looked into having the repairs  completed  themselves  and told us that theyd 
been told the false wall couldnt be repaired and the entire wall would  need  to be removed  
and repanelled. We were  also told that they didnt have any spare matching tiles.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She concluded that the damage to the bathroom 
should never have  occurred  as the fault laid with the boiler not the bathroom  equipment.  As 
such British Gas was responsible for repairing the damage. She also recommended  British  
Gas pay Mr and Mrs T £1,000 for the upset  and inconvenience they had experienced 
throughout the claim and having no running  water to their bath and no shower for the 
previous ten months. 
Both parties  accepted the investigators view. It was proposed that Mr and Mrs T would get 
some quotes  for repairing  the damage. The complaint was thought to be resolved.
Ref: DRN75213982Three months later Mr T contacted us again. He confirmed quotes  had been sent to British 
Gas in October but no response had been received and the compensation hadnt been paid. 
Mrs T had also sadly passed away by that time.
British Gas said it hadnt got a record of receiving the quotes and so asked for them  to be 
sent again. Unfortunately, Mr T sent the originals and didnt keep copies, so he had to start 
the process again. British Gas confirmed it would  pay interest  on the claim settlement. 
Mr T was not happy with the situation as he felt British Gas had lost the documentation hed 
sent it. He also said that the £1,000 compensation was not enough for the distress hed been  
put through.  Mr T asked that British Gas head of customer relations write to him and 
apologise. He also wanted it to make  a donation to McMillan Cancer Support in the name of 
his late wife due to the distress British Gas had put them  through  over the past year.  When it 
was explained  that British  Gas was unable to comply with the request for a donation to a 
charity other than the one it was linked to, Mr T asked for the compensation to be increased.
We informed Mr T that British Gas was not willing to increase the compensation. In addition, 
as the events he was asking  for compensation for occurred after the events covered by the 
first complaint, he would  need to raise a new complaint. Mr T decided to accept British  Gas 
offer. 
British Gas confirmed  on 22 February  2019  that the compensation payment had been issued 
by bank transfer. 
At the end of March 2019 Mr T sent us four quotes for works  to his bathroom. These varied 
between £7,800 and £11,250.  The quotes  were sent to British Gas to arrange for settlement  
to be made.
British Gas took some weeks  to respond to the quotes. It was concerned  that all the quotes 
included works to areas that had not been  affected  by the mistake it had made  such  as the 
floor and ceiling.  As such, it asked for a breakdown of the costs  involved in the quotes so it 
could work  out a settlement based  on the parts of the room  it was responsible for  the walls.
Mr T responded by explaining that in order to complete the repairs  the bath, sink and toilet  
needed to be removed. This along with repairing the false  wall would cause damage to the 
floor and ceiling,  so all of the works  detailed in the quotes was needed. Our investigator was 
not persuaded this was the case and asked that Mr T provide the breakdown British Gas had 
asked for. We also asked for further  photographs  of the bathroom.
There was much correspondence about what should  and shouldnt  be paid for by British Gas 
in the settlement for repairs. Ultimately,  our investigator was satisfied that a repair of the 
false wall was possible and reasonable, so it didnt  need to be completely replaced.  The 
walls would need  to be stripped of tiles and retiled  and British Gas should  pay for all of that 
work. Any other work needed  to facilitate  this should  also be paid for. She was not 
persuaded the bath needed  to be removed, that the tiled floor needed to be renewed or that 
the ceiling  needed to be plastered. She remained satisfied the £1,000 compensation was the 
appropriate amount.
Neither British Gas nor Mr T accepted  the investigators view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN75213983I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2020. In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
The two parties  agree that British Gas made  a mistake  when  diagnosing the fault with 
Mr and Mrs Ts water supply to the bathroom  and unnecessarily cut a hole in the bathroom 
wall. I see no point in examining  this issue further  due to that agreement. The issue  I need to 
decide on is what British  Gas should  do about it, or rather, given the preference expressed 
by Mr T, what it needs to pay for to allow the damage to be repaired and return  his bathroom 
to its previous condition.  
The quotes  Mr T obtained did appear to cover more than it would appear was needed to 
repair the bathroom. Having looked  at the photographs Mr T has provided, considered the 
damage present,  the quotes  and both Mr Ts and British Gas comments, I have decided 
what works should be the responsibility of British  Gas:
Whilst I know that Mr T has said a repair of the hole in the wall will not be structurally sound  
enough, I havent seen any expert opinion that supports  that. Furthermore, it appears to be a 
relatively small hole with a substantive framework behind it, so I can see no obvious reason 
why it cannot  be repaired. 
There is then the matter of the tiling. There are two issues here, the cost of the tiles and the 
amount of it that British Gas should pay for. 
The first matter is that British Gas considers  the cost per square metre on the quote  that was 
broken down was high at £48. British Gas suggested the average tile price  was more in the 
region of £20-25 per square metre. Mr T said he would be happy  to accept that price if early 
settlement could be arranged. 
Having considered this matter  carefully and looked into prices from some larger retailers  for 
tiles of a similar size to those in Mr Ts bathroom.  The price range  is significant, but it does  
appear £48 is at the higher end. I think British Gas suggestion for an average cost seems  
reasonable and so I require the cost of the tiles for the bathroom walls to be settled at £25 
per square  metre. 
There is then the amount  of tiling to consider. British Gas has made  different  offers  in this 
regard, but I am satisfied  our investigator was right to require it to pay for the stripping and 
replacement of all the existing tiles. Whilst this is not what I would  award in a buildings  
insurance claim, this is not such a claim. This is a negligence claim, where the only reason 
for the consumer suffering a loss is due to the mistake made by British Gas.  As such, it 
would not be appropriate for Mr T to have to pay out for repairs.  So I will be requiring British 
Gas to pay for the removal  and replacement of all of the wall tiles in Mr Ts bathroom.
It isnt clear from the photographs or the video Mr T has provided, how much  of his bathroom  
walls are tiled. However, I note the quotes  provided including emulsion paint to walls,  it 
would seem that some or all of the walls  are not tiled from floor to ceiling at present. Mr T will 
only be entitled to replacement tiles for the same  area. In order to establish what exactly  he 
is entitled to, I would request that he provide me with a photograph of each  wall which  shows  
it from floor to ceiling  and wall to wall. 10% should be added to the amount of tiles needed to 
allow for breakages  and wastage as is normal.
It is, however, clear that the walls are tiled to a level above the height of the toilet  and 
washbasin. The towel rail is also installed over the tiles. As such,  these items will need to be 
Ref: DRN75213984removed and reinstalled to allow the bathroom to be tiled.  British  Gas should pay the cost of 
this work. The same  appears  to be the case with the window blind as there is tiling into the 
window reveal.
It was detailed on Mr Ts quotes that the bath also needed to be removed. I have carefully 
considered this issue and I am not persuaded it does. The tiling starts above  the bath and as 
the false wall doesnt need to be replaced, I see no reason the bath would need to be 
removed to allow works to be completed. 
Again, Mr Ts quotes have  included the floor being  removed and renewed. As there  are 
skirting boards between  the tiling and the floor,  I again  see no obvious reason the floor 
would be damaged by the repairs. As such,  I dont consider British Gas needs  to replace it. 
The same applies for the ceiling   it has been quoted to be plastered  and decorated.  I see 
no reason why it would  need to be plastered. As for decoration,  I think  some redecoration 
will be needed. Firstly,  it appears there are parts of the walls that are currently  painted  rather  
than tiled. Given the other  works to the walls,  the current finish is likely to be affected on the 
walls, the skirting and doorframe. Whilst I dont think it will strictly be needed  due to the 
claim, I think  British Gas should  also pay for the ceiling  to be painted. This is because  if it 
remains unpainted  it will look out of place and it will be difficult  for Mr T to paint it afterwards  
without risking damage to the wall decoration.  This would also be the case for the interior  
side of the door.
Mr T has said the taps in his bathroom no longer match because  the original bath taps were 
removed because they were thought to be faulty.  I dont think  it unreasonable  for Mr T to 
want the aesthetics of his bathroom to be good.  As such  I will consider the matter of the taps 
further, if Mr T will provide me with photographs of the basin taps and the new bath taps.  It 
would also be helpful if Mr T could contact the plumbers merchant he bought the bath taps 
from and ask if matching  basin taps are available  and get details of the cost.
The cost of reasonable protection  for the floor and bath during repairs should  also be paid by 
British Gas.
British Gas questioned the costs in the quote  breakdown that was provided  indicating 
some might be too high per unit price. Having seen many schedules  of work whilst 
considering insurance  claims, I can understand its concerns. As such,  I find that it would be 
reasonable for the cost of the labour and materials, other than the tiles, to be calculated  
using Huchins Price  Book, which sets out up to date prices  for materials and labour rates for 
typical building projects. This should ensure that both parties are satisfied a fair price  has 
been calculated  for the works  needed.  British Gas should provide Mr T with a breakdown  of 
the settlement  when  it is paid.
I now turn to the matter of the compensation payment for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused.  Our investigator explained  that we could only consider the matter of 
compensation for the period of the original complaint. However, as both parties have 
consented to us considering the further  matters that have  arisen  since that date,  I think it 
reasonable for me to consider the matter of compensation for the whole period too.
I am aware  that new bath taps were bought in 2018  and that British Gas paid for them  as 
compensation for the delays and errors  it had made  up to June 2018. On top of that our 
investigator awarded a further £1,000 to September 2018 to take account  of the 
inconvenience they had unreasonably suffered throughout that period and the further  errors 
Ref: DRN75213985that were identified. Both parties agreed on these payments. Having  considered them, I think  
they were appropriate  at the time.
However, the payment for errors  and delays  up to June 2018  was determined before  the 
misdiagnosis of the problem  with Mr Ts boiler had been established. So whilst British  Gas 
effectively paid out £299 at that time as compensation,  because  it was in the form of paying 
for the new taps,  which werent actually needed, Mr and Mrs T didnt actually benefit from 
that payment.  As such, I consider the £299 awarded in June 2018  should be made as a cash  
settlement.
Mr T has asked for further compensation for what has happened since the settlement  was 
agreed in 2018.  
Mr T has said he sent British Gas three quotes  in October  2018  following acceptance of the 
offer to settle the complaint and this caused delays and additional work for him, as he hadnt 
kept copies. British Gas says it has no record  of receiving anything  from Mr T and this is why 
it didnt settle  the complaint. I dont doubt  Mr T when he said he sent in quotes, but equally I 
dont have reason  to question British Gas when it says it didnt receive  them. What I would 
question is why the £1,000 compensation payment was not made immediately. It would have 
been clear sorting  out payment for the remainder of the settlement would be delayed  whilst 
information was obtained and assessed.  Given the circumstances at the time, I think it would 
have been appropriate for British Gas to have made  that payment immediately. That said,  I 
note that it has added late payment interest when  the payment  was made.
There is then the matter of the disagreement  about  the scope of the works  British Gas is due 
to pay for. Having looked at the communication,  all of which passed through  our investigator,  
I think there were delays caused  by both British Gas and Mr T. Mr T was not always 
co-operative  in providing evidence to help sort out the issues. British Gas also changed its 
position several times and it did not provide explanations for its conclusions or changes  in 
approach. 
Overall, I think some  further compensation is due. I have  already concluded the £299  from 
June 2018 be paid to Mr T in cash.  I believe it would be appropriate in the circumstances 
that the payment be rounded up to £500 to take account of the additional issues  that 
occurred when attempts  to establish  the amount of redress were made.
Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He said that he firstly  wanted  to make it clear  that 
he had never agreed to settle on the basis of new taps as they had not been fitted and the 
problem had not been resolved at that point. He pointed  out that when they were eventually 
fitted, the problem  claimed for still existed.  
Mr T highlighted that I and our investigator  had concluded the issue was a matter  of 
negligence rather than a claim  covered  by the terms and conditions of the insurance policy.  
In light of this our investigator had said the bathroom  should be put back  in the same 
position as it was in before the error  by British  Gas. He cannot see how patching  the hole in 
the wall can be seen  to be putting him back in the position he was in before British  Gas 
caused the damage. 
In relation to the works that will be needed  to reinstate the bathroom, Mr T doesnt  believe I 
have looked at the broader picture. In order to reinstate the bathroom  various  trades would 
be needed along with waste removal and protection for surfaces to access  the bathroom. He 
went on to explain that when the tiles are removed the plasterboard behind them will be 
Ref: DRN75213986damaged, wall panelling will be damaged, the joint between the wall and floor tiles will be 
damaged (resulting in the waterproof membrane under the floor tiles being  damaged). The 
latter would require  the floor tiles to be removed and the list of work goes on, including the 
plumber returning  to reinstate the white goods and test for leaks. In addition,  items such  as 
bathroom cabinets and the blind would need to be removed and reinstated.
Mr T believes he has been more  than reasonable with British  Gas and made it various  offers 
to settle the matter. It has responded  with insulting offers.
British Gas confirmed  receipt of the provisional  decision. It said given the arguments it had 
already made, there was little more to say. It did, however, request that it be allowed to send 
its own contractor into Mr Ts home to provide a quote for the works for comparison 
purposes.
I confirmed to the parties details of the taps that had been established and that I intended  to 
include in the award settlement for matching basin and shower fittings.  I was also not 
persuaded that given the circumstances it was appropriate for British Gas to go to Mr Ts 
home to assess the job for comparison purposes. 
British Gas confirmed  it had no further comment to make. Mr T said that hes spoken  to a 
builder and the builder  had told him the new shower fittings were of a different size from 
those currently in place.  In order to fit them the false wall (and therefore, the bath)  would 
need to be removed.  Mr  T didnt provide any comment  direct  from the builder. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including Mr Ts 
further submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I have carefully considered Mr Ts further  comments about the reinstatement works,  but I am 
not persuaded to change my conclusions.  Mr T has highlighted  that we have said that he 
should be put back into the same  position he was in before British  Gas damaged his 
bathroom. That is the case,  but I would provide clarification. That doesnt mean the room  
should be gutted and reinstated from scratch. It means that he should have a functional  
bathroom that for all intents and purposes  is in the same condition as it was before the 
damage occurred. That means some  items,  such as the false wall, can be repaired rather  
than replaced. 
Mr T has said that the plasterboard  on the walls will be damaged when the tiles are 
removed, as will the skirting. The latter damage  would then require replacement  of the 
skirting, which  will then cause damage  to the floor.  Having examined the photographs  of the 
bathroom its clear the walls were plastered before they were tiled and so I can see no 
reason why there would  be any damage  caused  to the plasterboard  beneath that plaster. As 
for the skirting, again I see no reason why it would be damaged such that it would need 
replacing when  the wall tiles were removed. It appears Mr T is assuming the builders will 
cause a lot on unnecessary  damage when removing the tiles. Whilst that is possible if the 
builder does not take suitable care, but I dont  think it is something that is inevitable  and 
British Gas should pay for. 
In relation to Mr Ts recent comments that replacing  the shower taps would require  the wall 
to be replaced, I note that this is not something thats been supported by comment from a 
Ref: DRN75213987builder/plumber. Given the circumstances, I see no reason that would be necessary given 
the type of fittings associated with the shower.
Overall, whilst I know this will disappoint Mr T, I havent been persuaded to change  my 
conclusions about  the works British Gas should  pay for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to 
pay for the following:
Repair to the plywood false  wall;
Removal of the tiles to the walls of the bathroom;
Replacement wall tiles for the parts of the walls  presently tiled at £25 per square metre;
Labour costs to install the new tiles;
Removal and refitting of the washbasin, toilet,  towel rail, blind and any other  wall hanging 
fitted furniture to allow the walls  behind to be tiled and decorated; 
Replace the basin  taps and shower fittings to match the new bath taps bought  in 2018;
Painting of the walls, ceiling and woodwork  within the bathroom;  and
Protection of the bath,  bathroom  flooring and any other areas  required for the duration  of 
works.
Disposal of rubbish.
All other than the specific cost of the basin and shower fittings, all costs are to be calculated  
using Hutchins Price  Book.
In addition, British  Gas Insurance Limited  will be asked to pay a further £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7521398