K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  hasnt helped  them  to recover money 
they paid to a third party. 
background
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us as they were unhappy with the response theyd 
received from Lloyds about a payment theyd made  on 27 June 2017 to a third party who Ill 
refer to as E. Lloyds  didnt uphold the complaint. They  said they werent  able to obtain a 
refund as Mr and Mrs S made the payment  by transferring money  straight to Es account, 
namely a Faster Payment. Lloyds said this didnt offer the same protection  as paying with a 
credit or debit card. And although Lloyds could  attempt to contact Es bank  to ask for the 
money back it could only be done  on a best endeavours basis. But as Mr and Mrs S told 
Lloyds the administrators  for the E had told them  there  were  no more  funds left, Lloyds said 
they would  not be able to obtain a refund for Mr and Mrs S.
Our adjudicator, whilst sympathising with Mr and Mrs Ss situation, thought Lloyds had acted  
reasonably and fairly in attempting to recover the money.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They believed they should be fully entitled to get their money 
back under  the given  circumstances. They hoped this service  would realise  how much 
damage E had done and help to find a solution. They  couldnt  see how it was possible that 
this wasnt acknowledged  and action was not being  taken. They were disappointed and 
asked for an Ombudsman  to take into consideration the full situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs S have  told us, as far as theyre  aware,  the Financial Ombudsman Service  is 
there to help protect customers who have found themselves victims of such  scams and 
fraudulent activities. So, firstly I think its important to set out the role of this service. We are 
an informal dispute resolution service  an alternative to the courts.  We consider complaints 
on a fair and reasonable basis. My role is to consider whether Lloyds have done anything  
wrong or treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. And - whilst I appreciate  this is an unfortunate 
situation for Mr and Mrs S - Im afraid for the reasons Ill explain I dont think  Lloyds  have 
done anything  wrong here.
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in the letter  
giving her opinion.  Theres not a great deal I can add to what shes already told Mr and Mrs 
S. I think shes  covered  most points quite  clearly. The central issue here is that payments 
made directly into a third partys bank account  dont offer the same protections  as payments 
made by a debit  or credit card. Our adjudicator has explained this and the difference in a 
situation where the payments are made  by a debit or credit card and the card scheme  not 
the individual bank  offers certain  protections.
An additional  complication in this case is that were told E have entered into administration.  
So although  Lloyds couldve  contacted Es administrators and asked for the return of the 
money on a best endeavours basis, theyve been  told by Mr and Mrs S of the 
administration and that the administrators say there  is no money left to recover.
Ref: DRN73706062Im very sorry to hear of the situation  Mr and Mrs S find themselves in. Theyve  lost a 
significant amount  of money. But although  I have sympathy for their predicament its not fair 
or reasonable for me to hold Lloyds  responsible  for it when Lloyds have done nothing  wrong. 
So Im not going to uphold  this complaint against Lloyds. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly  about  whats happened to them.  Given  that they 
may want to pursue  the matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end 
what we  in trying to resolve their dispute  with Lloyds informally   can do for them. Im sorry 
if this disappoints  Mr and Mrs S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7370606