K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
The policy was added  to the card when  Mrs P took out a credit card via the Egg website in 
2001. The policy cost £0.69 for every £100.00 of the credit  cards balance and in the event of 
a successful claim, could  have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months.
 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should not be upheld.  Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I am not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. I explain why below.
Ive considered the internet screens  Egg has provided. It seems that Mrs P had to select 
either Yes to add PPI to her card, or No not to. Egg has said Mrs P wouldnt have been 
able to proceed with her application unless  she chose one of these options. Egg says that 
neither answer  was preselected for Mrs P so she should have understood this was 
something she could  say No to. 
Ive also noted  the statements that show that Mrs P was paying for Credit card repayment 
protector. So, had Mrs P not agreed to the cover by choosing Yes  to the cover,  then I 
would have expected these statements to put her on notice that she was paying for 
something then, that she says now she doesnt recall agreeing to. And Id have expected her 
then to raise this as an issue  with Egg many years before she eventually did. So, overall, I 
think its most likely  that Mrs P agreed  to the cover and did so knowing she had a choice to 
do so, even if she doesnt remember that now, many  years later. 
Egg didnt  recommend that Mrs P take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. Instead Egg had to provide information that was clear  and not misleading so that Mrs P 
could decide about the policy  for herself.  
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know about 
Mrs Ps circumstances and the cost of the policy, I dont think better  information  would have  
stopped her from buying it.
I say this because  Mrs P was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. In saying that, Ive considered that Mrs P told us 
that she had some medical issues around that time.  If a medical condition existed before the 
policy was sold to Mrs P, it may not have been  covered by the policy  if it reoccurred. And 
that could have been an issue for Mrs P. Its the case that Mrs P experienced some serious 
Ref: DRN71440122medical conditions  after taking out the PPI, but these dont appear to have been  manifest  at 
the time of the sale. And whilst Mrs P had a medical record before the PPI sale, it doesnt  
appear that she had any medication for any ongoing  medical  issues at the time of the sale. 
So I do not think that Mrs P would  have expected  these previous conditions  to be the 
reasons for her having to take time off work in the future, for the length of time required to be 
able to make  a claim under the policy.  And the policy would have covered Mrs P for any 
medical conditions  that she hadnt  had before the time of the sale and would also have 
provided help in the event  she lost her job. So Im not persuaded that Mrs P would have 
been put off the PPI had she received better information about the policy.  
And I think Mrs P could have found the policy useful.  I say this because whilst Mrs Ps sick 
pay was good  initially, I note that it dropped significantly after six months, such  that Mrs P 
might have had to rely on her modest savings. But the policy could have paid 10% of the 
balance for up to 12 months  if she was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So as this would 
have been in addition to whatever sick pay she may have received,  and as this would have 
protected her savings,  I think the policy could have  been useful to Mrs P. 
So I dont  think that Mrs P lost out as a result  of anything Egg might have done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I think  that Canada  Square 
Operations Limited didnt mis-sell the PPI policy to Mrs P. So, I am not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint about  Canada  Square Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  9 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7144012