K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that CIS General Insurance Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy 
and then didnt  notify her of this.
background
CIS cancelled Mrs Bs policy because it said she hadnt given it the correct  information about 
two previous claims. Mrs B had said that two claims were the fault of the other driver. One 
claim was when the car was hit whilst parked and the other  claim was still open and so 
should have been recorded  as fault. CIS said it wouldnt have  offered cover  if the question 
had been answered correctly. So it cancelled  the policy after it had run for two months and 
refunded Mrs Bs unspent premium. But Mrs B said shed answered the questions  correctly. 
She said she found out about the cancellation  a day after the policy  had cancelled.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the question  
Mrs B had been asked  about previous claims was unclear. He thought Mrs B had answered  
the question as she thought best,  but incorrectly. So he thought  CIS had unfairly cancelled  
the policy. He thought  CIS should  remove records  of the cancellation, give Mrs B a letter 
saying that the policy  had been cancelled in error, cover any administration  costs  and 
increase in premium  that resulted, and pay her £150  compensation. 
Mrs B replied that she hadnt declared  the cancellation to her current insurer  and she already 
had a letter  from CIS saying that she neednt declare it. CIS replied that it thought its 
question was clear. It said it hadnt recorded the cancellation anywhere but it offered to 
provide a further letter to confirm this. It didnt  think it was responsible  for the cost of Mrs Bs 
new policy. It offered £75 compensation for administration errors. 
CIS then made a further  offer. It agreed  to pay Mrs B £150  compensation and it said it would 
cover any difference  in premium that her current insurer said resulted from a cancellation 
being declared. 
Mrs B said she hadnt told her new insurer about the cancellation. Our investigator then 
thought CIS offer was fair and reasonable. But Mrs B remained unhappy and she asked for 
her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS said it cancelled the policy because Mrs B hadnt correctly declared two fault claims 
recorded against her. I can see that the named driver was involved in an incident shortly  
before the policy with CIS was taken  out. And there  had been a previous incident that Mrs B 
thought wasnt  her fault.  
Mrs B applied for her policy through  an online  comparison site. She had said the claims  were  
non-fault when  one was still open and so CIS said it should have been recorded  as fault. 
And the other  claim  should  have been  recorded as a fault as it involved Mrs Bs car and 
there was no other party identified. 
Ref: DRN72801632Where a complaint  arises  from nondisclosure of information important to an insurer,  we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the nondisclosure.
CIS has provided an extract from its underwriting guide that shows that it wouldnt have 
offered a policy if Mrs B had answered the question correctly. 
Ive seen screenshots of the questions  Mrs B was asked about  previous claims. Mrs B was 
asked if there had been previous accidents and she said yes. This led her to a question  
about who was at fault. She was given  the options of choosing Both parties,  No other  vehicle 
involved, Other party, Our driver, Unoccupied  vehicle.  
I cant see that there is any further  guidance  given about what constitutes fault.  CIS said 
consumers should  know that open  claims are recorded as fault.  And claims where the 
insurer cant recover its losses are also recorded as fault. But, from my experience,  I dont 
agree that all consumers  know  this. Also,  I dont  think the question  asks how the claims were  
recorded. I think a consumer could think they were being asked for their opinion.  So I dont 
think CIS asked a clear  question about the fault status of the previous claims.   
Ive looked at the statement of insurance  for Mrs Bs policy.  It says that one claim, the 
named drivers accident, was the fault of the other party, and for the other is states Not 
Driven. So I think Mrs B answered the questions to the best of her knowledge. 
So, under the relevant legislation, I think CIS cancelled Mrs Bs policy  unfairly. Mrs B has 
since taken out cover elsewhere  for a much increased premium. To put things right, I would 
normally ask CIS to remove records of the cancellation and provide Mrs B with a letter  for 
future insurers saying that the cancellation  was made  in error. 
But I can see that CIS has already done  this. Also, CIS didnt apply a cancellation  fee and it 
charged Mrs B just for her time on cover. Mrs B said she had to pay a much higher  premium 
for her new policy and she thought CIS should compensate her for this. But Mrs B 
repeatedly told us she didnt tell her current insurer about the cancellation.  So I dont have 
evidence that CIS error has caused  her premium increase. And I therefore dont require CIS 
to reimburse Mrs B for this. 
Mrs B said she hadnt received CIS letter of notification that her policy  was to be cancelled. 
But CIS has provided evidence that this letter was sent. It also sent Mrs B a letter that she 
said she opened after the policy had cancelled to confirm the cancellation. So I cant say that 
CIS didnt  send Mrs B notice of the cancellation.  
But CIS has agreed that there were  administration errors in the cancellation. It said it initially 
gave Mrs B incorrect reasons why the policy had been cancelled.  It said it incorrectly told her 
that she would have to declare the cancellation to future insurers.  But I can see that these 
errors were corrected quickly. And so I think CIS agreed offer of £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  this and the unfair cancellation  caused Mrs B is fair and reasonable. Its 
what Id recommend in similar circumstances. I dont require CIS to increase this. 
Ref: DRN72801633my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair  
cancellation and its administration of her policy, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7280163