K822xcomplaint
Miss R has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled  a
claim she made under her car insurance policy.
background
Miss R bought a car insurance policy  with the insurer, Advantage. She said she called
Advantage in July 2016 to check if she was insured  to drive  a friends car in the Republic of
Ireland (ROI). Miss R said Advantage told her she was.
In October  2016 Miss R called to report an incident  involving a third party while she was
driving her friends car. She said Advantage again  told her the claim would be covered.
In February 2019  Advantage  said it wouldnt deal with the claim. It first applied the following 
exclusion: that the benefit of driving other  cars didnt apply to outside the territorial limits. 
Later it applied a different exclusion: because  the car Miss R was driving wasnt insured by 
her friend.
Miss R was very upset  about Advantages decision. She said it misled her into believing it
was dealing with the third party claim for over two years. She said she became concerned in
2018 as she continued to get letters from the third party solicitors  including a court
summons. She then appointed  her own solicitor as she couldnt  get an update  from
Advantage.
Miss R doesnt agree  that Advantages decision is fair. She says its documentation isnt
clear. She made a Subject Access request  to Advantage as she wanted to evidence what it
told her in the calls.  But Advantage says it cant trace the key calls from July and October
2016. Advantage indicated that this may be because these were made via Skype. Miss R
isnt able to obtain further evidence of the calls. But Advantage has made  notes about the
call in October 2016.
Miss R wants  Advantage to deal with the third party claim. Shes  incurred legal costs  by
appointing a solicitor to defend her in court proceedings in the ROI.
Advantage accepts  it caused a delay in telling Miss R it wouldnt  deal with the claim. But it
doesnt agree it has prejudiced her position. It offered to pay Miss R £150 compensation for
the distress and inconvenience  its delay  has caused her.
In December 2019 the investigator thought it was reasonable  for Advantage to decline the
claim because  the car Miss R was driving wasnt insured. She thought  Advantage should
pay the compensation of £150 for the delay  it caused.
Miss R didnt agree. I issued a provisional  decision on 4 March  2020. I thought  Advantage 
had delayed telling Mrs R it wouldnt deal with her claim. But I thought its decision was fair. I 
recommended Advantage pay Mrs R £250 compensation and cover her solicitors  fees for 
their communication with Advantage. 
Advantage accepted my provisional  decision. Miss R didnt agree. Ive addressed her 
comments in my findings. 
my findings
Ref: DRN72881812Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For ease Ive set out Miss Rs complaints
under headings  below.
Advantage caused delay
An insurer  must deal with a claim fairly and promptly. So if an insurer has concerns about
meeting a claim, it should properly investigate  those concerns and keep a customer updated
so that their expectations  are managed.
Theres no evidence of the call Miss R said she made in July 2016 to check if she would be
covered driving  another car in ROI. But Advantage made a note of Mrs Rs call on 17 
October 2016. However it said it doesnt  have a recording of it. The notes show  that 
Advantage knew Miss R had crashed  her friends  car while driving in the ROI. The notes 
read that Advantage would provide cover  on a third party  basis.
Advantage told us that Miss R did have the driving  other cars benefit on her policy,  but
there are terms and exclusions that apply to this benefit.
Miss Rs policy  says under the section Driving Other  Cars that where cover is shown on the
certificate of motor insurance,  Advantage will indemnify  Miss R while personally driving, with
the permission  of the owner, any car not owned by her.
Under the section  Whats  not covered it reads:
c) If the vehicle is being used outside the territorial limits of this policy.
d) Unless a current and valid policy of insurance is in force  for the vehicle being
driven under this section of this policy.
Advantage said Miss Rs circumstances fell under exclusion c) as she was driving  outside
the territorial limits.  But Advantage knew this from the initial notification call. So I think  it was
for Advantage to promptly let Miss R know that it didnt intend  to deal with the claim for this
reason in October 2016. But it didnt do this. I think Advantage didnt do enough  here to
manage Miss Rs expectations and inform her of whether it would deal with the claim.
Advantage continued to deal with the claim.  In January 2017 it asked Miss R to forward
letters she received from the third party  solicitors.  In July 2017 it considered negotiating
settling the claim on a split liability basis with the third party solicitors. From its notes it
became aware  of the Motor Insurance  Bureaus (MIB) involvement in July 2017. The MIB
became involved  because the car Miss R was driving wasnt  insured. 
So from July 2017 Advantage was also relying on section d) of whats not covered as a 
reason not to deal with the claim.  But Advantage didnt update  Miss R.
In September  2017 the notes show that the underwriter  gave  two reasons to not deal with
the claim:  that Miss R was living in the ROI and not in transit; and that Driving Other Cars
benefit doesnt apply as there was no valid insurance in place  for the car being  driven.
In August  2018  Miss R contacted Advantage as shed received a court  summons from
solicitors for the third party. Advantage still didnt give any indication that it didnt intend to
deal with the third party  claim.
Ref: DRN72881813Miss R has provided copies of emails  she received  from Advantage when she received
correspondence from the third party solicitors. On 8 October 2018 it wrote:
You do not need to do anything with the below. It is a letter  from the claimants
solicitors acknowledging  our solicitors request for a time extension, so this is all in
hand.
And on 13 December  2018:
"You do not need  to take any action  with the PIAB letter, which  has been passed on
to our panel solicitors.  I have asked (agents name) to acknowledge their interest with
PIAB so you do not receive any further  letters. If you do, just email them to me and I
will forward  them on."
In February 2019  Advantage  told Miss Rs solicitor that it wouldnt be dealing  with the claim. I
think Advantage had many opportunities throughout the claim to let Miss R know that it
intended not to deal with it. But it didnt, which I think was unreasonable. It misled  her into
believing all was in hand as late as December 2018. If Advantage intended to rely on the
territorial limits exclusion, it could have  said so as early as October 2016. It seemed to have
concerns about  residency - but there isnt any evidence of it investigating this in a timely
manner.
In October  2019 Advantage  told us that it informed the MIB that it wouldnt be dealing with
the claim in July 2017. It said it was for the MIB to contact the car owners  insurer. But
Advantage should have  told Miss R at this stage of its decision too. She was their
policyholder and it should have told her it didnt intend to deal with the claim.
Miss R has provided invoices from her solicitor.  One of the invoices shows a breakdown  of
the time she was charged for their dealing with Advantage about  the claim. Miss R has
provided us with copies of letters  between  her solicitor and solicitors on behalf of Advantage
during this period. I think if Advantage had properly investigated the claim and given Miss R
its decision promptly, these costs wouldnt have  been incurred. So I think  Advantage should
reimburse Miss R for the legal costs  set out under the invoice dated 21 November 2019 for
€5,043. I think  Advantage should  pay interest  on this amount  from the date Miss R paid (if
already paid)  to the date of reimbursement at 8% simple interest a year.
I dont think Advantage  is responsible for legal costs relating to dealing with the third party
claim as these are costs Miss R would have had to incur in any event.
Ive addressed the issue of compensation for the overall impact  Advantages  delay and 
handling of the claim  has had on Miss R later in my decision.
Advantages decision not to deal with the third party claim is unreasonable.
Miss R says the wording  on her Certificate  of Insurance is confusing. She believed  she was
insured to drive  other cars in the ROI. Miss R said she was on an extended holiday in ROI in
2016. Miss R said she called Advantage before driving her friends car and again when the
incident happened. Both times she said Advantage told her she was insured (on a third party
basis).
Miss Rs certificate of insurance says under Persons entitled  to Drive;
Ref: DRN72881814The policyholder may also drive with the permission of the owner a motor  car not
owned by the policyholder and not hired  to him under a purchase  or lease
agreement
It then reads; Driving  Other Cars  If under persons or classes  of persons entitled to drive
you are permitted to drive other cars,  cover  for that car is Third Party only. Damage to it is
not covered
And its the following wording in particular that Miss R has highlighted:
This policy covers  events  occurring in Great Britain, the Isle of Man,  and the Channel
Islands. The policy also provides the minimum cover  required by the relevant law of any
country which is a member of the European Union;  so including  the ROI.
Advantage says that this wording relates to Miss Rs car. The policy  booklet  goes on to
expand on this cover including what isnt covered (as Ive set out earlier). So the issue for
me to decide  is whether Advantage made it sufficiently clear  as to the level of cover Miss R
had. I think it did.
In this case the owner of the car appears not to have insured their car. I dont think the
Certificate of Insurance can provide details of all cover in every  eventuality.  And I can also
see that the Certificate says the following:
This Certificate is evidence you have insurance cover to comply  with the Law.  Please look
at your policy booklet and schedule  for full details  of your cover.
Miss R says that if her friend didnt have  insurance on her car this seems  to give Advantage 
an out by way of an exclusion. But she believes its policy booklet and Certificate  of 
Insurance is contradictory and confusing. 
But I dont agree. On balance  I think  it was reasonable for Advantage to reject the claim 
once it became aware that the car Miss R was driving wasnt insured in July 2017. Its vital 
that drivers check to ensure they are insured to drive and it was Miss Rs responsibility to do 
this. Advantage  couldnt have known that the car Miss R was driving wasnt insured   and 
therefore not legally allowed on the road.
Miss R says that  if Advantage had correctly told her she wasnt  insured to drive in the ROI
when she called in July 2016   she wouldnt  have  driven her friends car. As a recording of
the call isnt available,  I have to decide what I think most likely  happened on balance.
I think its unlikely that it would have made a difference in this case. I say this because I dont
think its likely that Miss R would have told Advantage  that her friends  car wasnt  insured by
the owner. In my provisional decision I said I didnt know if this is something Miss R was 
aware of. Mrs R hasnt said either  way in her reply.  But it was a condition  of the third party 
cover for her while  driving another car in the ROI.
Miss R also says that if Advantage had told her sooner that it wasnt  dealing  with the claim,
she would  have been able to instruct solicitors  to deal with correspondence  she received
from the third party solicitors and tried to mitigate matters  earlier  on. Instead, she forwarded
the letters without  action to Advantage as advised.
Ref: DRN72881815I cant safely say that the outcome of the case would have been  different if Advantage had
reached its decision not to deal with the claim sooner.  But I think  its poor handling of the
claim caused Miss R unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I think  Advantage should
pay compensation to Miss R. Given the length of time it led Miss R to believe it was dealing
with the claim, I think it should pay £250. This is in addition to reimbursing Miss R for the
solicitors invoice I mentioned earlier in my decision.
I know Miss R doesnt feel the compensation amount is enough. She says the final costs of 
the third party  claim and the impact of paying those costs will be significant for her. 
I think Advantage is responsible for considerable delay in letting  Miss R know it wouldnt deal 
with her claim. But I think it correctly rejected her claim  because the car she was driving 
wasnt insured. And so I think  even with the delay  that Miss R would have been 
potentially responsible for third party costs - as her friends car wasnt  insured. So I think 
£250 compensation and the reimbursement of part of the solicitor fees is a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following:
reimburse Miss R for the costs of the solicitors invoice dated 21 November 
2019 for €5,043. Pay interest  on this sum if Miss R has already paid at a rate 
of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment  to the date Advantage 
pays Miss R.
Pay Miss R £250  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the
date on which we tell it Miss R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much  its taken
off. It should  also give Miss R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288181