K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains, on behalf of her company  BS that her broker, Bollington wrongly linked
BSs motor insurance policy with two other  family companies. She also complains  that 
Bollington wouldnt  separate the claims histories  for the family  companies. She said this 
meant BSs premium went up when she switched  broker.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached. Mrs H is also represented by her husband Mr H in the complaint.
my provisional findings and the parties responses 
In my provisional decision I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I thought  that 
Bollington took reasonable  steps to provide Mrs H with the information  she required to 
decide whether  to renew his policy for BS with the Bollington scheme  policy.  And to obtain a 
separate quote for BS from another insurer.
Mr and Mrs H ended  their relationship with Bollington  in September 2017  and instructed  a 
new broker for the three businesses. Mr H said he hadnt wanted Bollington to quote for 
policy renewals in 2017, contrary to what I had said in my provisional decision.  He said the 
drivers only worked for one business  and claims made against  each  business  shouldnt be 
allowed to affect  the others. Mr H said it had been Bollingtons  decision  to combine the 
claims experiences, not the insurers.
Mr H said they received wrongly  combined claims experiences for the three businesses  from 
Bollington on 12 October  2017. He said Mrs H requested individual  claims information on 17 
October, but this wasnt received until 14 December 2017. He said this had been 
intentionally withheld by Bollington and was received too late for the new broker to act on 
BSs behalf.
Mr H said Bollington stated it had sent individual company claims on 12 October  2017.  But 
he said this was just claims listing reports from the insurer which arent required when 
seeking a renewal quote. Mr H asked that as these  reports separate the claims, why would  
Bollington state  that the insurer  required them to be sent in a combined  format. He said 
claims belonged  to each business  individually and cannot be shared with others. Mr and Mrs 
H requested that the provisional  outcome of the complaint be reconsidered.
In my provisional decision I requested Mr and Mrs H to provide copies of the policy  
documents they received  from BSs new insurer in October 2017 and 2018. They havent 
done that and so I havent seen the insurance  arrangements for BS since Bollington stopped  
acting as its broker, or the premiums paid. Mr H has provided copies of the previous claims 
experiences from Bollington (2008  to 2011) and other insurers  over the past 10 years. He 
said these show that individual claims information  for each  of the three businesses  has been 
provided to them in the past.
Bollington said it had nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN72047182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have carefully  considered Mr Hs further  
comments and the claims  experience documents hes sent us to decide if Bollington has 
treated BS fairly and reasonably. Having done,  so I remain of the view that the complaint 
should not be upheld. I realise  this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs H and I will explain 
the reasons why I have reached  this conclusion.
Mr H said he didnt request a renewal quote from Bollington in 2017. I can see that he told 
Bollington hed switched brokers a month before renewal. Bollington said it was still required 
to provide claims information  and a renewal quote, which he could ignore if he chose.  Mr H 
emailed Bollington just before BSs renewal  on 12 October 2017 and said,  I appreciate  your 
efforts to obtain  the best terms  for our renewals. I think Mr and Mrs H wanted the 
comparison that Bollingtons insurance  scheme  could provide for their businesses. But I can 
see that they didnt then renew BSs policy with Bollington. 
Mr H has provided documents showing that Bollington and previous arrangers of BSs 
insurance have  sent separate  claims information  for each  of their businesses  in the past. He 
thinks Bollington  didnt do this in 2017  because he had ended  his relationship with them. 
Bollington said it provided the exact same  information in 2016 as it did in 2017,  but Mr H 
didnt say it was unacceptable then.
I dont think Mr and Mrs H were expecting the claims information in a combined format  and 
requested separate information  for the three  businesses on 17 October 2017. Bollington sent 
separate information from the policy insurer ahead of the renewal date, 26 October 2017. 
Bollington said that it had to provide the claims information in the format  required by the 
insurer and also said it was concerned that individual information might lead to an insurer 
providing an inaccurate quote. As I said in my provisional decision it was Mrs Hs 
responsibility to make  an accurate presentation of the risk of her business to any prospective 
insurer. And in any event Bollington did send the information in a format acceptable to Mrs H 
in December 2017.  
Having said this, Im not aware of any requirement on a broker to provide the claims 
experiences of insured businesses in a particular format. Although the information provided 
by Bollington shows claims information  for the three  businesses, each business has its own 
claims separated. 
Bollington also provided  Mrs H with claims information from the policy insurer  before renewal 
which separated  the claims to each of the three  businesses. Mr H said this wasnt  the 
information required to obtain a renewal  quote.  The information from the policy insurer  
appears to me to be in a very similar format  to the individual  claims information  Mr H has 
sent us from previous years.  And so, its not clear to me why this information from the insurer  
wouldnt assist with a renewal. From what Ive seen I remain  of the view that Mrs H was 
provided with enough  information  to obtain  quotes  from other  insurers  for BS in 2017, 
separate from the other family businesses.
I have seen the email  exchanges between Mr and Mrs H and their new broker that are 
critical of Bollington. However,  I dont think Bollington was required to provide  more detailed 
information about the claims than it and the insurer  did in October 2017. I havent seen 
Ref: DRN72047183anything to suggest that Bollington was deliberately  frustrating Mr and Mrs Hs attempts to 
change brokers or obtain  new insurance quotes.
I still dont know when  Mrs H obtained  alternative quotes for BS or what  these were.  And so, 
I dont know what,  if any, detriment  BS has suffered. However,  as I dont think Bollington has 
treated BS unreasonably I dont think this matters.  Having  looked again at this complaint I 
remain of the view that Bollington has taken reasonable steps to provide Mrs H with 
information to make an informed choice about  the renewal of BSs policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above and within  my provisional decision it is my final decision 
that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204718