K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Formax  Prime  Capital  (UK) Limited isnt paying him the profits  that he 
considers he legitimately made from trading Contracts for Differences (CFDs) on its platform. 
background
In September  2018 Mr S opened a CFD trading account with Formax and deposited  
€20,000. He placed over 800 trades  on a variety of currency  pairs  between 
26 September 2018 and 12 October  2018  when trading stopped.  By that stage, Mr S had 
made just over €19,725 in profits. Mr S attempted to withdraw  his funds, but Formax  froze  
his account and cancelled his trades. It said that he had been trading using an abusive  
strategy as defined under its terms, and it wouldnt honour the trades he had placed. Some 
correspondence ensued, at which point  Formax allowed Mr S to withdraw his initial deposit  
but it maintained  that it would not pay him any profits  from his trades. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss 
complaint but didnt  consider it should be upheld. In short, she considered that Formax had 
provided sufficient evidence that Mr S was gaining an unfair advantage by employing an 
abusive trading  strategy as defined under the terms of his agreement  with it. In particular, 
she noted that:
Mr S was exploiting price latency in Formaxs  feeds by testing the execution  speed 
and slippage  of certain currency pairs  and, once a particular feed was found to be 
lagging or slower, larger trades were placed in order to profit. 
Mr S also used  these smaller  test trades  to slow down the relevant  feeds  in order to 
better exploit them.  
Mr S was also using a trading strategy  common  to other  traders  and this was 
corroborated by specific trades, of the same  size, opened at exactly the same  time 
on other accounts. These other  trades also stopped  trading at the same times as 
Mr S. The investigator  also noted  that this in turn meant the same number of 
successful trades,  at the same  times, on other  traders accounts. 
All the traders,  including Mr S, who used this strategy were  using the same  
Virtual Private Server  provider  (VPS). 
The investigator concluded that it was unlikely that several traders would  place trades from 
similar IP addresses, belonging to the same VPS, at exactly the same time, and all stop 
trading at the same time, and make the same amount of profitable  trades.  The investigator 
said that under the terms of the agreement Mr S agreed with Formax, it was entitled to 
revoke trades that were placed  using an abusive  trading strategy. So she didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. In short, he said:
The assertion  that he was using test trades which were small in size (lots of 0.01) 
wasnt true and wasnt something  Formax could prove.  He said that when trading 
retail forex,  and especially when  trading  news, there was no way to know at which  
price a trade would  be filled because the quoted price is usually different from the 
execution price. He said the test trade  was only a way to test execution on the broker 
and protect his capital. He said there  was no conspiracy  or complex  explanations for 
the small trades and no alternative feeds involved. 
Ref: DRN73829752He said that the servers Formax used to host the relevant trading were designed to 
handle thousands  of trades  per second and wouldnt  be slowed down by him placing 
a few trades or other  traders doing similar  things. He said it would likely  take 
hundreds of traders placing trades at the same  time to slightly affect  the 
performance  of the server. He therefore  said it was a lie that this added to the price  
latency and made abusive trading more  effective. 
He said that his high success rate could simply be attributed  to his success as a 
trader. And he said that traders placing  trades at exactly  the same time might simply 
suggest traders using  a similar strategy  involving the use of expert advisors. He gave 
some examples of popular robotic  trading  strategies which  had sold many 
thousands of copies. He said it was very common to see the same [expert advisor]  
working on the same broker especially around financial news  released in which times 
are known  weeks in advance such as non-farm payroll. 
He said he thought that this service would only look at his individual  case  and not 
what other clients of Formax  did. 
He didnt know what other traders did or what VPS they were using, but he simply 
chose the best price/benefit VPS with the lowest latency to Formax.  He said he 
shouldnt be blamed for this. 
He queried the investigators statement that 67.5%  of traders  lost money,  and asked 
why it couldnt  simply  be the case that he was part of the 32.5% that made money. 
He also queried  a trade example  which the investigator had used to show that he 
traded at exactly the same times as other  traders. He said that the currency  pair in 
question couldnt  be traded over the weekend and so the times of trading were  
entirely common and normal. 
He queried why Formax would want to close his account given that he was a high 
volume trader and that it stated  on its website that this is how it made  money. He 
said that to him it seemed that the 32.5% of traders on Formaxs website who made 
money simply had their accounts closed and their profits deleted,  making a mockery 
of their clients and the FCA. He said this was totally unacceptable from any FCA 
registered broker. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
The starting point  when looking at this complaint is to consider the terms and conditions of 
trading which  Mr S agreed  to when he opened his account with Formax. In particular, section 
31 Abusive Trading Strategies explains what Formax considered  to be unacceptable 
trading on its platform. This section says that abusive trading strategies:
include practices (without limitation) such as attacking the System in order  to create and 
abuse price latency opportunities, internet of System connectivity,  trading instruments  which 
are clearly  misquoted (arbitrage)
The section explains that these practices need not be illegal, but instead, simply confer a 
benefit to the trader which  Formax  did not envisage when it opened the account. Section 
31.2 explains that, if trades are placed using abusive strategies, Formax:
Ref: DRN73829753may, at our sole and absolute discretion,  revoke  Transactions resulting from Abusive 
Trading Strategies,  without prior notice to you and regardless of whether such revocation 
would result in Losses in your account.
 Furthermore, the terms confirm that Formax  has the right to: 
take all necessary steps including making corrections or adjustments  to your Account 
without prior notice for example, any Transaction placed through  the System  which  relies  on 
price latency or arbitrage opportunity may be modified, adjusted, corrected, rejected, 
terminated or voided at any time,  without  prior notice, at our sole and absolute discretion.
In my opinion these terms make clear  the type of trading which Formax forbid  on its system. 
The question I therefore need to answer  is whether Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it was fair and reasonable for Formax to conclude  that Mr S was using a 
strategy which was expressly  forbidden under the terms  of the agreement and which allowed 
him to trade in a way which was unfair and guaranteed him winning trades. 
And in my view, it was reasonable for Formax to conclude that the evidence  showed Mr S 
was adopting  a strategy designed to exploit a price lag in Formaxs feeds. I say this bearing 
in mind the following circumstances:
The size of the profits in the profit-making  trades,  versus  the losses  in the loss-
making trades demonstrates that Mr S was able to successfully predict the 
overwhelming majority of the time when to increase the size of the trades, and when 
not to. Of the approximately 810 trades  placed by Mr S, around 263 were  for 2 lots or 
more. Of these, 163 generated profits of over €28,000 versus losses  of just over 
€9,000 on the remaining 100. Yet on smaller trades  of 0.3 lots or less, he made 352 
loss-making trades  versus 192 profit making ones. 
An example  of how this ratio was so successful is that Mr S was able to predict within  
seconds when  to close larger trades  versus  smaller ones. This means theres  an 
absence of any individual large  loss-making trades  for example only three of his 
800 trades made a loss of €200.  Whereas  28 trades made  profits of more  than €200,  
17 of which more  than €500. This indicates  a remarkable  ability  to predict, in 
advance, when to increase the size of his trades and when not to on an extremely 
consistent basis.
This ratio was further aggravated in some of Mr Ss preferred  currency  pairs  for 
example when trading GBP/USD, around 56% of his trades were profitable  and 
made over €8,200.  While the remaining 44% were loss-making  yet lost just over 
€1,100. 
Mr Ss trades were  replicated across other accounts in exact  terms  hours, minutes,  
seconds and size of the trade,  as well as the correct currency pair. 
The other accounts were opened  at nearly  identical  times as his  the accounts in 
question ended in 41, 43 (Mr Ss), 44, 47, 49 and 60. Im persuaded this 
demonstrates that the accounts  were  opened  within a very short  time and Mr S was 
part of this sequence. 
The IP addresses of all these accounts  used the same  VPS.  
Ive considered Mr Ss explanations around some of the points  above,  but Im not persuaded 
by them.  For example, while Mr S says that the smaller trades of 0.01 lots were to test 
execution, thats inconsistent  with the majority of the trading he carried  out. Particularly when 
generating large individual profits on a trade  (over  €500 or more), they almost inevitably 
were accompanied by a smaller trade  of 0.01,  placed at exactly  the same time.  This means  
Ref: DRN73829754that Mr S cant have been testing the execution  of the trade, because at the same time as he 
was placing a small trade he was also placing a much larger  one for 2.4 lots. Of the 17 
individual trades which individually made  more  than €500, all were  over 2 lots in size  and 
with the exception of 2, all had corresponding  0.01 trades placed at exactly the same time to 
the second. This strategy  inevitably generated significant profits for him  Im not persuaded, 
therefore, that his explanation addresses such  a level of consistency. 
Mr S has also said that his high success rate and the fact other traders  placed trades at a 
similar times could simply be explained by him using  a successful strategy which  others 
were also using. Im not persuaded.  The point  here is that other traders  werent opening or 
closing their trades at similar times   they were  doing so at exactly the same time. And 
whilst I understand his point that he could simply be one of the few who is successful, Im not 
persuaded that his level of consistently making large  profits  and small or no losses,  
combined with all the other factors mentioned  above, was simply down to a successful  
trading strategy. So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable  for Formax to conclude  that Mr S 
was using an abusive strategy as defined under its terms  and, consequently,  was entitled to 
void the profits he derived from that strategy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7382975