K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused to cover  their claim 
under their travel policy.
References to AXA Insurance  UK Plc include all its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs K bought an annual travel  policy from AXA in July 2017. They took a trip to India 
in February 2018.  Whilst there, several  of their pre-booked internal flights were cancelled  by 
the airline. This meant  they had to make  other  arrangements for their travel  in India to 
include a long taxi ride and other expenses. They  made  a claim to AXA who said such 
internal flights werent covered under their policy.
Mr and Mrs K remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt 
think AXA had done anything wrong  given  the policy didnt provide cover  for the cancellation 
of internal flights. Mr and Mrs K disagreed so their complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its very clear that Mr and Mrs Ks policy simply doesnt cover  cancellation  of internal flights  
like what Mr and Mrs K suffered in their trip to India.  It only covers such  flight  either to or 
from the UK. 
Had Mr and Mrs K requested cover for travel disruption its possible their claim might have 
been covered.  However, Mr and Mrs K didnt opt for that level of cover when buying their 
policy, so that level of cover is not provided under their policy.  
These policies are sold on a non-advised basis. This means provided Mr and Mrs K were 
given sufficient information to decide  what level of cover they wished to buy, at the time, 
there is no other advice  given. Theres evidence here that Mr and Mrs K werent given 
sufficient information.  
So therefore, it is up to Mr and Mrs K to read the terms and conditions to ensure  they chose 
the level that was right for them. No travel  policy covers every eventuality  either  as standard,  
as otherwise they would  be prohibitively expensive. 
So I dont  think AXA did anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Ref: DRN73497722Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349772