K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject  a claim made 
under his car insurance policy.  Mr Ls son is a named  driver  under the policy.  Ill refer to Mr L as 
Mr L1 and his son as Mr L2 in my decision. Mr L1 says Admiral  took too long to reach its decision. 
background
Mr L1 bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. He made a claim to Admiral three weeks  
after the police contacted  him to tell him the car had been found abandoned and damaged.  
This had happened while the car was in the care of Mr L2.
Admiral investigated  the claim and decided to reject it. Mr L2 and his girlfriend both told an 
investigator and Admiral that Mr L2 left the car unlocked outside his girlfriends  home. 
Admiral applied two exclusions under  the policy in deciding to reject the claim. These were 
for failing to report the incident within 48 hours and failing  to secure the car. Admiral  said it 
didnt cause undue delay in investigating  the claim. 
Mr L1 asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  thought Admirals decision  to reject 
the claim was fair and reasonable. She initially thought Admiral could have requested a 
police report sooner. And so she recommended Admiral pay Mr L1 £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience its delay caused. 
However, Admiral provided  its reasons as to why it requested the report when it did. Our 
investigator reconsidered and thought Admiral hadnt caused a delay. So she no longer 
recommended any of Mr L1s complaint should be upheld. 
Mr L1 didnt agree. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I dont intend to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
The police received a call from a member of the public in the early hours of the morning as 
Mr L1s car was found abandoned  with frontal damage and fire damage to the interior. Mr L1 
said they received  a call from the police at around 5am to inform them. Mr L1 said he 
thought the police would have reported  the car as stolen  at that point.  Mr L1 made  Admiral  
aware of the incident the day after the car was released following further investigation. 
I realise there are some differences in the information provided by Mr L2 and his girlfriend 
about what happened on the night/early  morning in question.  But what isnt in dispute  is that 
Mr L2 left the car unlocked and left his car keys in the car. 
Mr L1s policy with Admiral has  like most insurance policies  some exclusions.  The 
exclusions Admiral has relied  on are:
3. Care of your vehicle
You or any person covered by the policy must:
protect your vehicle from loss or damage
make  sure your vehicle is roadworthy
Ref: DRN72205552allow us to inspect  your vehicle at any reasonable  time we ask
oremove the keys or secure any device that allows access  to your vehicle; if it 
is left unoccupied.
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy  fails to protect  
your vehicle from loss or damage through:
the inappropriate conduct of the driver; or
the condition  of the vehicle, caused  or contributed to the accident;  or
your vehicle being left unlocked  or unsecured.
No cover under the policy will be provided  and instead our responsibility will be 
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
2. Claims procedure
If you or your car are involved in any type of claim, accident or loss regardless of 
fault, you must tell us about it within 48 hours.
Also you must:
immediately report to the police any claim involving malicious damage, theft or 
deliberate fire or when your car is taken without  your consent,  and obtain a crime
reference number  which relates directly  to the incident you are reporting to us within
24 hours of receiving it.
From Mr L2s own account,  he failed to remove the keys from the car when it was left unoccupied. 
And he failed to protect the car from loss or damage as he left it unlocked  and unsecured. 
The incident  took place on 30 November 2018.  Mr L1 first contacted  Admiral  on 19 
December 2018.  He said he was advised by the recovery agent that nothing could be done 
until forensics finished examining  the car. The police report  shows that it treated the incident 
as arson  as the car hadnt  been reported stolen. 
I understand Mr L1 is unhappy with Admirals decision  to reject the claim. But I think  its 
applied both exclusions reasonably based on its investigation  and in line with the policy.
Admiral requested Mr L1s consent  to ask for a police  report on 11 January 2019 following a 
discussion it had with the police on 3 January 2019. However, Mr L2 completed the 
paperwork and so Admiral  requested it again  from Mr L1 as the policyholder  to complete. It 
received this on 11 February 2019  and requested the police report  on 20 February 2019. 
So I dont  think Admiral  caused undue delay here  or elsewhere during its investigation.
I know Mr L1 will be disappointed with my decision.  But based  on what Ive seen, I think  
Admiral acted reasonably.  So Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7220555