K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I didnt 
think that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.
FICL didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision  and Mrs R didnt have any further  information  
or comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither FICL nor Mrs R have provided  me with any further  comments  or information 
following my provisional decision,  I see no reason to change the conclusion I reached  in it. 
I still dont think Mrs R has lost out by anything that FICL may have done  wrong  when it sold 
her this PPI policy. So I dont think the complaint  should be upheld.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint 
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72289672copy of my provisional decision
complaint
This is a complaint that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. FICL didnt  actually sell the policy, but it has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out in 1996 alongside a store  credit card. Mrs R was sold 
the policy  when she applied for the account  in a store.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.  
The adjudicator thought Mrs Rs complaint should  be upheld because Mrs R had a health condition 
when she took out the PPI. He didnt think this condition would have been covered  by the policy  if it 
had caused her to take time off work.  And he didnt  think Mrs R would still have  wanted the policy if 
shed been properly informed  about this exclusion.
Mrs R has now provided some further information about her health condition. She says she cant  
remember exactly when this condition was first diagnosed  but that it would either have  been in 1995 
or 1996. So, as this sale took place  in September 1996, I cant be completely sure that she had been 
diagnosed with the condition before  the date of the sale. But even if she did have this condition at that 
time, I dont think I can fairly  conclude that the policy was mis-sold to her because of this. I say this 
because Mrs R has told us that shes never had any time of work as a result of this condition and that 
its never impacted on her day-to-day life. She says the condition is well controlled  with the medicines 
shes been prescribed for it.
So having carefully thought  about all the information available to me concerning  Mrs Rs medical 
condition, I currently dont think she would have been put off buying  the PPI policy because of this 
condition, even  if FICL had explained this policy exclusion  to her better than it did. This is because I 
dont think she would have  thought it was particularly likely that this condition  would have caused her 
to make a claim under  the policy. And I think  she would have still thought the PPI provided useful 
cover if shed been off work because of other  medical conditions, an accident  or unemployment.
Mrs R says she was unaware that PPI had been added to her card account. FICL has provided a 
copy of the application form for her store card which Mrs R completed and signed. And I can see that 
shes ticked to confirm she wanted  to take out PPI cover on her card and also placed  her initials by 
this tick. So from what Ive seen,  I think she would have realised that the PPI was optional and that 
she actively  decided  to take it. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I can understand why she 
cant remember this now.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs R. So it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for her. 
But it still needed to ensure  that it gave her enough information for her to decide if she wanted to buy 
it. I think the information FICL gave her could  have been better  than it was. But I dont currently think 
that better information  would have changed her mind about buying  the policy. I say this because:
Ref: DRN72289673Mrs R appears  to have been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of its other exclusions  
or limitations.
It doesnt  look like Mrs R was eligible for sick pay or has any other means  of making the 
repayments on her store card if she couldnt work. So I think she would have valued  the extra 
cover the policy gave  her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs R. And as the premiums were paid for 
monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So from what  Ive seen so far, I dont think Mrs R has lost out by anything  that FICL may have done 
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Financial 
Insurance Company  Limited.
Ill now wait to see what  further evidence  and comments I get before making  my final decision.  
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7228967