K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  in May 2019. I said I was 
minded not to uphold it for the reasons Id set out in my decision.  As I had added to the 
reasons originally given  by the adjudicator for recommending this complaint should not be 
upheld, I invited Mr and Mrs W and Santander  to let me have anything else they would like 
me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
No further information was sent in for me to consider. Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  now comes 
back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for the same reasons as set out in my provisional  
decision. These reasons are repeated below.
Mr and Mrs W took out a new mortgage  through Santander in August 2010. PPI was also 
added to their account to protect their mortgage repayments. The policy  covered Mr W only.  
It cost £61.08 per month for £787  per month of cover for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs W said, in the main,  they were paying for something they didnt know  they had. 
They also said they didnt  need PPI because they had adequate sick pay and savings.  And 
they said the policy was useless as they didnt claim on it.
I think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld because:
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt know PPI was added. I cant  know what  was discussed at 
their meeting  with Santander. But, Ive seen two documents  sent in by Santander  to 
show what was discussed at the time. The first is dated June  2010.  It records that there 
was a face to face branch interview between Mr W and Santanders representative.  The 
document is a summary of the information Santander  says Mr W gave it at the time to 
apply for PPI, which Mr W said he wanted to do. This document  has a place where 
Mr W and the bank  representative could sign. Neither has signed this copy  of the 
document. I cant know why that is. However,  this isnt the PPI application, but instead a 
summary of what was said about Mr Ws circumstances at the time.  By signing it, Mr W 
wouldve been verifying that the information he gave  was true and accurate. The 
information recorded in this document  about Mr Ws personal circumstances is largely 
consistent with what Mr Ws told us about  his personal and employment circumstances 
at the time. It records that Mr W wants  PPI. So, I think  its likely to be a reasonably 
accurate note of what was discussed  and decided.
Ref: DRN76701972Ive also seen  a copy of a letter Santander says Mr W was later sent confirming hed 
taken out PPI, including the separate cost of it. Overall, based on what I have seen, I 
think it likely that Mr and Mrs W did say they wanted  PPI and thats why it was added.  I 
think Mr W wouldve  probably said at the time when he was sent this paperwork that had 
he not agreed to take out PPI, if he didnt want it. Ive not seen anything to suggest  he 
did that. So, on balance, I think its more likely that it was made clear to Mr and Mrs W 
that PPI was optional and they opted  to take it, knowing they didnt have  to take it to get 
the mortgage  even  if understandably  they dont remember that now, after so long. 
Santander says that at the time its sales process  didnt involve providing advice about  PPI, 
just information.  And I havent seen anything that makes me think it recommended  the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs W. So, Santander didnt have  to consider whether the policy was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs W, but it did still have to give them clear,  fair and accurate information, so they 
could make an informed  choice for themselves  about whether they wanted to buy PPI.
As this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken into account Mrs Ws circumstances too when 
deciding this complaint, even  though only Mr W was covered under the policy.
It doesnt look as if PPI was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs W, based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr W seemed  eligible to take out the PPI.
they said they were  both eligible  to get between 6 and 12 months  worth  of sick pay 
through their employers.  But, the PPI would  have paid out on top of Mr Ws work 
benefits and for up to 12 months  per successful accident, sickness or unemployment  
claim, so for potentially longer than he wouldve got full pay for, from his employers. 
The policy wouldve  also have  covered him if he lost his job unexpectedly.
Mr and Mrs W said they had access to £6,000 worth of savings, but this was in their 
childrens names.  I think they wouldve been reluctant to see savings earmarked for 
their children  used to pay their mortgage.  They also said their parents  wouldve 
helped out. I accept that their parents may have  wanted to help, but help of this kind 
cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed much reliance 
on that. 
Mr W said he had death in service  benefit  cover. But this wouldve only paid out on 
death, so I cant see that it provided  him with duplicate  cover.   
The policy wouldve  allowed  them  to use Mrs Ws income to meet  their other 
household expenses at what mightve been  a difficult  time for them  financially, if 
Mr W wasnt working. So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ws other resources  made the 
policy inappropriate for them.  I think the policy wouldve provided valuable  protection, 
safeguarding their home if Mr W wasnt able to work.
They paid a monthly premium for PPI and it couldve  been  cancelled at any time 
without them losing  out financially. 
Mr W mentioned  he had a pre-existing medical  condition at the time this policy was 
sold. But he said this was controlled with tablets and hed had no issues  and have 
never been of[sic]  work regarding this. So, I think even if Mr W had been given 
better information about the limitations  and exclusions he wouldve still taken out the 
cover. I say this because  I dont think he wouldve  thought  it likely hed have to make 
a claim for this medical  condition. So, I think they wouldve still considered  the policy 
worth it, in their circumstances.
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful to Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN76701973Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know exactly when it first made the cost clear or when  it pointed  
out the main things  the policy didnt cover.  But, although the information  may not have been 
as clear as it couldve been,  before I decide  whether  to uphold  their complaint, I must 
consider whether Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of this. I cant  see that they have.  I 
think they wouldve  understood  they had to pay something for PPI, and as Ive said above 
the cost was affordable and the policy appeared appropriate in their circumstances. 
Ive considered carefully all of Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including  what theyve said about 
the policy continuing after the mortgage  ended and Santander not pointing  that out to them.  
As our adjudicator explained, we are dealing only with the mis-sale aspect of their complaint 
here. If they want to pursue a complaint  about what happened later,  they would need to raise 
it with Santander  first. 
They also said that the PPI was useless  because they hadnt made a claim. The purpose of 
insurance is to provide  cover in the event that certain unforeseen situations  arise. In Mr and 
Mrs Ws case there was no need  for them to make a claim,  as far as I know, but that didnt 
mean that the insurance wasnt right for them in the first place.
It follows, I dont think  Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with the sale 
and so I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  this complaint. 
my decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7670197