K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that it was irresponsible of NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) to give him a 
credit card and increase  the credit  limit at times. Hes also unhappy with the way Aqua 
responded when he had trouble making repayments. 
background
Mr R applied for a credit  card from Aqua  in June 2017. Hed defaulted on other  accounts  and 
reached the maximum limit on two credit cards at the time.  And he thinks Aqua would have 
realised it would be irresponsible  to lend if it had carried  out proper affordability checks. 
Mr R says Aqua shouldnt have offered to increase his credit  limit in January and May 2018 - 
as hed been making minimum payments  for some time, made payments late and missed 
payments in February and March 2018.  
Mr R told Aqua he was having  financial problems in June  2018. He thinks  it was wrong to 
default the account and pass  the debt to a collections agency in September  2018 when he 
was keeping to an agreed payment arrangement. He wants Aqua  to refund interest and fees 
and rectify  his credit file.
Aqua thinks  it carried out proper checks  and lent responsibly - both at the outset and when it 
increased Mr Rs credit  limit to £1,200 in January 2018 and £1,950  the following May. It says 
Mr R had the option to opt out of these increases if he wanted to. And it responded 
appropriately when  Mr R experienced  financial problems after losing his job. So it shouldnt  
have to do anything  further. 
Our adjudicator doesnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She accepts Mr R had payday  
loans and other credit - and there was some adverse information on his credit file - when he 
applied for this card. But, she thinks the checks Aqua  did were proportionate and it had no 
reason to decline the application. 
Shes satisfied Mr R seemed to manage this account  relatively  well - until just before he told 
Aqua hed lost his job and was having financial problems. She accepts he incurred over limit 
and late fees at times but he usually rectified  this fairly quickly - and shes  not persuaded it 
was wrong of Aqua to offer to increase the credit limit. 
She thinks Aqua responded  positively  and sympathetically when Mr R had financial 
problems. Shes not persuaded  it was wrong  to pass the debt to a collections agency or 
report information to credit reference  agencies (CRAs). She doesnt recommend Aqua 
should provide  a refund or do anything further.  
Mr R says Aqua lent him this money without  proper checks. Hed reached limits on other 
credit cards and payday loans. And he struggled to meet minimum repayments on this 
account so Aqua applied  late fees regularly. He thinks all of this should have rung alarm 
bells - especially when  he started  to miss more payments in 2018.  He feels  Aqua should 
have done more checks or refused  to lend. He asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
matter. 
Ref: DRN74308192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr R but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Lenders like Aqua are required to undertake  reasonable and proportionate checks  before 
lending to ensure  that borrowers  are likely  to be able to repay what  they owe sustainably.  
Aqua wasnt  obliged to do any one check in particular here - whats  appropriate depends on 
a variety of factors including the amount borrowed and repayment terms. 
the initial application
Aqua says it asked Mr R about his income  and personal circumstances and reviewed 
information from CRAs before it agreed to lend him £600 initially. I have seen information 
Aqua obtained and Ive reviewed Mr Rs credit file. 
I am satisfied Mr R told Aqua he was single and working, with gross income of over £20,000 
a year.  I can see Mr R had taken out some payday  loans.  But, the presence of payday  
borrowing alone doesnt mean  Aqua should  have refused to lend or had to do more checks.
I accept there was some adverse information  on Mr Rs credit record - some  accounts were 
in default. But the last default was nearly  two years before  this application. And more  recent  
information suggests Mr R seemed to getting his finances back  on track - theres no 
significant arrears or evidence that he was over extended. Overall, I think  the checks Aqua 
did were reasonable  and proportionate. And Im not persuaded it was irresponsible  to accept 
this application.  
credit limit increases
Aqua says it reviewed Mr Rs account (which included monitoring of late payments, over limit 
fees and cash  withdrawals, amongst other  things)  along with information from CRAs  before it 
offered to increase his credit  limit. Ive seen information Aqua had at the relevant times and 
considered Mr Rs credit file and account statements. 
I accept Mr R went over his credit limit at times  - and I can see he sometimes made only the 
minimum payment due. But Im satisfied  this wasnt the case  every  month.  Mr R paid more 
than the minimum due at times. I can see he sometimes missed payments and/or  made  a 
payment late. Im satisfied Aqua asked about  that and Mr R said hed just forgotten  the 
payment was due - and generally  put things right fairly quickly.  So, I cant fairly say this 
should have been a red flag for Aqua. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the checks Aqua did before offering these increases 
seem reasonable and proportionate. I dont  think Aqua had reason to think  the increases 
might not be affordable for Mr R - or do additional  checks. And Im not persuaded it was 
wrong of Aqua to offer them. 
financial difficulties
Mr R told Aqua that he lost his job in June 2018 and he was having financial difficulties. 
Lenders are expected  to respond positively  and sympathetically in this sort of situation. I can 
see Aqua  asked Mr R for information about his finances - to see what  level of payment he 
Ref: DRN74308193might be able to afford. Then it agreed to freeze interest and charges, accepted  lower  
payments for a few months  and refunded some fees, as a goodwill gesture. I think that was 
positive and sympathetic.  
It looks as if Mr Rs circumstances hadnt  improved by September  2018  and he was unable  
to resume his contractual payments. Aqua took steps to default the account and transfer the 
matter to debt collectors. I cant fairly say this was unreasonable.  
I understand Mr R would rather Aqua hadnt  reported what happened to CRAs. But, I cant  
reasonably find it was wrong of Aqua to record information about this account  on Mr Rs 
credit file. And lenders like Aqua have a responsibility to record such  information accurately 
so I cant require it to remove the default  here.   
I realise this is not the outcome Mr R hoped for. Im sorry to hear about the problems hes 
been having and I understand hell probably feel let down by my decision. But, for the 
reasons Ive given,  I cant fairly find Aqua has done  something wrong  and Im unable to 
require it to provide  a refund or do anything further.  
 
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7430819