K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs A and Halifax a provisional  decision saying  I didnt think  the PPI was mis-sold  but 
Halifax should pay back some of the commission  it received. I said Id consider anything else 
Mrs A or Halifax wanted to give me by 11 October  2019. I havent received anything new 
from Halifax or Mrs A.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold alongside the credit  card Mrs A took out. Mrs A says she knew nothing  
about the PPI and she thinks  Halifax took the money for it without her knowing  she says 
her statements didnt  show the PPI either.
Halifax has sent us a statement for the account  for May 2000  just after it started. This does 
show a charge for credit card repayments insurance. Halifax  has also sent a statement for 
June 2002. This shows a charge for credit card repayments cover .
So what  I have makes  me think the PPI charges were shown on Mrs As statements. This is 
also in line with our understanding  of Halifaxs practice at the time.  So I believe that the 
statements in between  wouldve also shown any PPI charges in a similar way. 
Halifax has told us the last time PPI was charged on the card was June 2002. So statements 
after that wont show PPI because the PPI was no longer in force.  Halifax  has given us the 
July 2002 statement and it doesnt show a PPI charge. If Mrs A only has statements from 
after the PPI ended  it might explain why she thinks its charges werent shown  on statements. 
Often where PPI ends  like this it is due to a cancellation request from the consumer. But due 
to the time that has passed, Halifax hasnt  any evidence about this other  than the statements 
- and so it cant now tell us for sure why the PPI was ended  at that point.
Given how long ago the statements with PPI on were issued, it isnt surprising Mrs A doesnt 
remember the PPI charges that were shown  on them. Similarly, given how long ago Mrs A 
took out her credit  card, I wouldnt  expect her to recall all the details  of what happened  at 
that time now. For this reason Mrs As recollection or belief that PPI was added  at the sale 
without her knowing, isnt enough on its own to make me think that this is what  happened.  
Instead Ive thought about this in the light of all the other information  I have.
As well as the statements showing the PPI charges, Halifax has provided a copy  of Mrs As 
credit card application form. This had a box to mark if PPI is wanted. On Mrs As form this 
box is marked. Mrs A has pointed  out that the form didnt have a box to mark if PPI wasnt  
Ref: DRN71765672wanted  only a box to mark if it was wanted. She also says the box was pre-selected   in 
other words, the mark was automatically  put on the form rather  than reflecting her choice.
Ive thought about all this carefully. Ive given  some weight to Mrs As belief that the box was 
pre-selected and didnt  reflect a choice she made at the meeting. But, as discussed  above, 
the passage of time means the weight I give this is limited and it isnt enough on its own to 
make me think that Halifax  wouldve printed the form with the box selected regardless of 
Mrs As preferences. And apart from Mrs As belief that this is how the box was marked, I 
dont have anything  else to suggest  that this is what happened.
In saying this, Ive considered the form itself.  There is a box for the PPI (at the time Halifax 
called it Credit Card Repayments  Insurance) . The box is marked with a printed cross. Next 
to the PPI box is a box for something else  and this box isnt marked. Above these two 
boxes are the words:  If you want these services please mark the relevant boxes.
So I think the words  on the application above  the PPI box suggest that it should be marked if 
the PPI is wanted.  In my view it follows that if the PPI wasnt wanted, the box for it shouldnt  
be marked. So the form in my view suggests a choice, to either  mark or not mark the box 
according to whether the PPI is wanted or not. Also there is a box for another  service  and in 
this case that box isnt marked  which I think reinforces the idea that the boxes could either 
be marked or unmarked, depending on whether the services were  wanted or not wanted.
So the way the form is set out, and also the way it has been completed in this particular 
case, in my view supports  the idea that its likely Halifax gave Mrs A a choice about the PPI 
and only added it, and printed the application  out with the mark in the box for it, after shed 
indicated she wanted it.
In saying this I appreciate  the mark was printed on the form. But all the details on Mrs As 
application form  her address, salary, living situation, job role and so on  were printed. 
This doesnt mean they didnt reflect her situation at the time. I think  its likely the printed 
details reflected the information she had given Halifax. Also Mrs A was given the printed 
form to sign. So she was able to see what had been  printed before her application went 
ahead  which reinforces  my view that the details Halifax put on the form most likely 
reflected the details  Mrs A had given Halifax. Halifax knew  that Mrs A would get to see and 
sign the form, and this makes me think its less likely Halifax  would  knowingly  put wrong 
information on it  or pre-populate  it in a way that didnt reflect her wishes.
Taking all this into account, I think its likely Halifax made it clear PPI would  be added only if 
Mrs A wanted it and the box for it could be left unmarked if she didnt want it. As the box for it 
was marked, and Mrs A signed the form, I think she chose to take it. With all that in mind, Im 
satisfied Mrs A agreed to the PPI. Also in the light of the evidence  on the form which Mrs A 
has signed, I cant agree that the PPI was most likely added without Mrs A knowing about it.
Mrs A has said she was unemployed  for a number of months  in 2005 and didnt claim on the 
PPI. She has suggested this shows she wasnt  aware of the PPI. I understand the argument 
but if a customer doesnt  use insurance  they have  I dont think this necessarily means that 
they cant have  been aware of buying it in the first place.  They  might have overlooked it at 
the time when they couldve claimed  or forgotten about it since the sale  particularly if the 
sale and the potential claim are separated by years. But in this case  the PPI wasnt actually 
in force  at the time Mrs A became unemployed  it ended in 2002 so she couldnt  have 
claimed on it in 2005 even  if shed had a clear  recollection of having bought it originally. So 
the absence of a claim in 2005 doesnt in my view add weight to Mrs As view that she was 
Ref: DRN71765673not aware of having bought the PPI. For all the reasons I have already given above, I think 
she most likely  was aware of it.
Mrs A says Halifax  didnt advise her to buy the PPI. Halifax thinks  it did. And if Halifax did 
recommend the PPI to Mrs A, Halifax had to do more and check the PPI was right for her. 
So I think its fair to assess Mrs As complaint on that basis   which places on Halifax a 
higher level of responsibility for the sale. But from what  Ive seen of Mrs As circumstances at 
the time,  I think the PPI was right for her. 
For example, Mrs A wasnt  affected  by any of the limits to or exclusions on the PPI cover.  
She was permanently employed,  so not affected by the exclusions and limits on the PPI 
cover relating to temporary employment situations. And she was in good health, so wasnt 
affected by the policy  exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions. From what Ive seen, 
Mrs A couldve made a successful claim on the cover if the circumstances arose.
Also it looks like the PPI was affordable. As I understand it, Mrs A says that if the PPI was 
affordable, it means  she could afford  to pay her credit card and didnt need PPI. On the other  
hand, she says if she did need PPI to help her with her card payments then Halifax  shouldnt 
have let her have the card. But the PPI was insurance in case  something went wrong.  It was 
an insurance Mrs A could afford to pay while she was working and getting her work income. 
But, from what shes told us, if she wasnt able to work due to unemployment or sickness, 
Mrs A wouldve  suffered a loss of income.  So in that situation it would have  been  harder for 
her to meet her card payments and the PPI benefit couldve been  useful.  It was insurance 
she could afford to pay while working to help her in case  of harder times.
So I think Mrs A had a need  for the PPI. She wouldve  suffered a loss of income  in the event 
of sickness or redundancy. The PPI wouldve paid its benefit of 10% of the monthly balance 
for up to twelve months per claim  longer than Mrs As full sick pay or redundancy pay 
wouldve lasted. Also she didnt have much in the way of savings to fall back on.
Mrs A has pointed  out that she lived with her parents who couldve helped her with her card 
payments if need  be. But the PPI meant  Mrs A would be less reliant on her parents in that 
situation. So I dont  think the help Mrs As parents couldve given her wouldve made it wrong  
for Halifax to recommend  she take the PPI. Also other peoples circumstances and ability  to 
help can change. I take on board what Mrs A says about having  low outgoings at the time 
but, for the reasons Ive already given, I still think the PPI was affordable insurance Mrs A 
couldve found useful  if something went wrong.
Mrs A says she wasnt given any information about the PPI. I dont know what information 
she was given exactly  and given the time that has passed I cant  say now exactly what 
was discussed.  So its possible the information  Halifax  gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as 
full or as clear as it shouldve been.  But, for the reasons Ive already discussed  above, Im 
satisfied that Mrs A was most likely given a choice about the cover  and chose to take it. So it 
looks to me like Mrs A wanted  this type of cover at the time. And it seems like it wouldve 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So, bearing in mind  all Ive already said above, 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs A off taking the cover.
Mrs A has said she got a PPI refund for a loan she took out around  the same  time. But if, as 
I think, her credit  card PPI wasnt mis-sold, it doesnt mean Mrs A cant  have been mis-sold 
other products  and if she was mis-sold other  PPI products it doesnt follow that her credit 
card PPI must have  been mis-sold. Ive explained  why I dont think the credit card PPI was 
mis-sold. In the light of all Ive said above,  Mrs As points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN71765674For the reasons  Ive given, Halifax doesnt have to repay everything Mrs A paid for the PPI. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mrs A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Im grateful  to Mrs A for all the points shes made, and for her patience while we considered 
her case.  Ive thought carefully about all her points, including what shes said about  being 
young, being allowed an overdraft and not having had payment problems  and about the 
application form that was used. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me the PPI was 
mis-sold to Mrs A and, in the light of all Ive said above  and for reasons Ive already given, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176567