K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons:
I can see Mrs P filled out a short form to apply  for her credit card, then it looks  like she 
was contacted by Barclays over the phone to finish her application  and sell optional  extra  
features. I cant be certain of what was said during that call, but Ive looked at a copy of 
the sales script staff were given to follow at the time. It looks like staff were  instructed to 
describe the PPI as optional, give customers a choice about  whether theyd  like it or not, 
and only set it up if the customer actively chose it. So I think  its most likely that Barclays  
made it clear Mrs P didnt  have  to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though 
I can understand if she no longer remembers doing  so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Barclays  recommended  the PPI to Mrs P, or not. The requirements 
were stricter  on Barclays if it did recommend PPI, so to be fair to Mrs P, Ive assumed it 
did. That means Barclays had to check that the policy was right for her  and based  on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks  
like Mrs P was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. While  Mrs P had benefits through work,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
those and it offered  her more comprehensive  cover. So it looks like the policy  couldve 
been useful for Mrs P in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I said above,  it doesnt  look like Mrs P was affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it could have been  useful for her if something  went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis,  so Mrs P could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall,  I dont think better information about  the PPI would have 
put her off taking  it out. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN76479192What the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mrs P any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs P the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay Mrs P 
8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs P can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7647919