K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that Beckford James LLP should not have advised her to 
transfer the value of her accrued deferred pension benefits in a former employers 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Miss G also argues that Beckford James  LLP should have stopped her from investing 
her SIPP in a land scheme in the USA.
Miss Gs partner  has also complained and his complaint has been investigated 
separately.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 19 July 
2018. A copy of this document is attached  to and forms part of this my final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out my findings  on Miss Gs complaint and I concluded 
that  the complaint should be upheld.
The business responded on 16 August 2018 stating that it disagreed  with the provisional  
decision. It argued that:
There appears to be a casual interchange of the execution only protocols and 
the advised  protocols.
The business did not advise Miss G contrary to my statements  in the provisional 
decision.
It did not facilitate  the switch of the SIPP provider. Miss G did not ask to transfer  
(which implies co-operation)  but simply sent the forms for the new SIPP  provider 
to Beckford James. These forms were not supplied by Beckford James.
There was no suitability letter as the transaction was carried out on an execution 
only basis.
Beckford James  did not assess the suitability of the proposed  transaction. It did 
not give any advice  at all. The warnings that it gave were generic investment 
warnings.
It had offered to advise Miss G but she declined the offer.
How could Beckford James know that the investment was unsuitable  for Miss G 
when it knew nothing  about her situation  and her financial position.
The fact that one SIPP provider had declined to accept  the investment did not 
necessarily mean  that Beckford James would have been aware  that the 
proposed investment  was high risk.
Even if it had said dont transfer  and invest in the US Land  Fund  there is no 
evidence that Miss G would have  followed  that advice. Particularly as she 
declined to be given  any advice  twice before.
Whilst I indicated that the investment might be difficult  to sell at the current time 
Beckford James  had found  a willing  and able buyer. 
The business then went on to say that it was looking into the actions of the third parties. 
In particular Beckford  James stressed that the transfer could not have gone ahead  on 
the basis of just the forms that it had signed  after receiving them from Miss G. It then 
Ref: DRN73090802forwarded them on to the SIPP provider. There were  a number of other discharge forms 
that were completed  by the SIPP provider and over which it had no control. 
Beckford James stated that the transfer  was always intended to be execution only.  
There needed to be a discharge form completed by the trustees of the original scheme  
to satisfy their legal liability and to release  the funds. These forms would confirm to the 
pension scheme  trustees that Miss G had received  financial advice. Beckford James did 
not sign the statements as it was unaware as to whether Miss G had received financial 
advice, The forms required by the trustees  before the transfer could take place were  
signed by the SIPP provider.
The discharge forms were supplied to Miss G directly by the SIPP provider. There  is no 
evidence that Beckford James was asked to get involved  in this process  and the transfer 
was arranged by the SIPP provider.
Beckford James argued that as the transfer could not have gone ahead without this form 
being completed by the SIPP administrator the liability  should, to a large part, fall on the 
SIPP providers shoulders.
Beckford James also considered that part of the liability should  fall on the introducer, 
Spyglass. 
Beckford James considers that it has been unfairly  treated by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. It considers that it is a diligent adviser  that is being penalised for having  
followed this services own execution  only process.
With regards to PRIN 2.1.1 it considers that by offering to provide Miss G with advice on 
two separate occasions that she rejected it has met the requirements of PRIN  2.1.1  
principle 6.
As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred back to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and codes of practice; and what 
I consider to have been good industry  practice  at the time.
Miss G has confirmed that she was introduced to Spyglass. Miss G states  that she was 
told that if she transferred  to a SIPP and invested in a land scheme in the US that she 
would be able to triple her investment over three  years. Miss G was very keen to go 
ahead and then completed the forms for setting  up the SIPP that had been given to her 
by the introducer.
These forms were then sent to Beckford James  who just processed the SIPP application  
and passed them on to SIPP provider A. 
Ref: DRN73090803The forms proposed  that the value of the OPS benefits be transferred into the SIPP and 
that these would then be invested in the US land scheme. SIPP provider A declined to 
accept the transfer  as it was unwilling to accept the proposed investment in the US Land 
Scheme.
The forms were returned to the introducer  who then located a new SIPP provider 
(referred to from now on as SIPP provider  B) who was willing  to accept  the pension  
transfer and to then allow  investment in the US Land Scheme.
SIPP Provider Bs completed  application  forms were sent by the introducer to Beckford 
James which  then sent the application forms off to the new SIPP provider.
Beckford James has argued strongly  that its role was to be execution only.  All it did was 
receive the completed SIPP  application forms from the unregulated introducer Spyglass 
and then post them off to the new SIPP provider. Beckford James  states  that it knew  
nothing about  Miss Gs personal  circumstances.
However Beckford James was aware that the introducer Spyglass had discussed the 
proposed transfer  to the new SIPP. This business was not authorised to give advice  on 
pension transfers.  Being authorised to give advice comes with responsibilities.
 I think that the advice  had to be suitable. Beckford James should have realised that 
there were issues with the proposed  transaction  as one SIPP provider  had declined  to 
accept the proposed investment. 
Beckford James has argued that the decision to invest in the US land scheme  was 
because of advice  from the unregulated third party (Spyglass) which had made  the 
proposed investment sound very attractive.  
In my opinion Beckford James should not have  been willing to facilitate the transfer to 
the SIPP and to receive commission (of almost £2,500) without being aware that the 
transfer was suitable for Miss G. 
I note under PRIN 2.1.1 of the FCA handbook  
Principle 9 - A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its 
advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon  
its judgement.
As the regulated party in the process Beckford James should have refused to transact  
the business that it received from Spyglass. It should have been aware that if it did 
transact the business  and this was found  to be inappropriate  then it would be potentially 
liable for paying  redress.
Beckford James should not have relied on the argument that it was just processing a 
transaction on an execution only basis for another business that was not authorised  to 
transact the business.  
The regulator has over the years, and prior to the circumstances of Miss Gs complaint, 
set down rules and guidance  about  regulated businesses  arranging a transfer to a SIPP  
Ref: DRN73090804and investing  in unregulated funds. The rules and guidance have been restated and 
clarified in alerts including  one issued in January 2013:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice 
is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such 
as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in 
unregulated schemes. 
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer 
seeks advice  on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment 
strategy, the advice  on the pension transfer must take account  of the overall  
investment strategy  the customer is contemplating .
Spyglass wasnt a regulated business and wasnt  able to advise  Miss G about the 
suitability of the proposed investment. So its clear Beckford James was required to 
consider the suitability of the transfer  including the proposed investment.  
Beckford James has argued the transaction was carried out on an execution only basis  
but I do not agree. Looking at everything thats happened I agree with the adjudicator 
that this wasnt truly an execution only transaction because Spyglass looked at a number 
of SIPP  providers to find one that was willing to accept the proposed investment in US 
Land. Spyglass  had found a provider willing to accept  the business  and the proposed 
investment. 
Beckford James just rubber stamped the advice  that had been given to Miss G by the 
unregulated introducer (Spyglass).
This referral to Beckford  James should  have been  treated with caution. Beckford James 
was aware the purpose of the SIPP application  was for the purpose of carrying out an 
unregulated investment in US Land. And, whilst  Beckford James might not have 
introduced the investment to Miss G it facilitated the transaction by rubber stamping the 
application that was completed by Spyglass.
In my opinion Beckford James would  have known that the investment in US Land was 
likely to be high risk as it had been  refused by the first SIPP provider that was 
approached.
Beckford James as the regulated party had to follow  the rules that are set out in the 
Regulators handbook.
The FCA handbook  and conduct of business  sourcebook (COBS) set out principles and 
rules a regulated  business must  follow in dealing with its customers.
Under PRIN  2.1.1 of the FCA handbook the following are relevant:
Principle 2 - Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct  its business with due 
skill care and diligence.
Ref: DRN73090805Principle 6 - Customers interests   A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 9 - A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its 
advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon  
its judgement.
And COBS  2.1.1 provides: the firm needs  to act .honestly, fairly and professionally  in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Miss G signed the disclaimer  which Beckford James  produced saying she understood 
the investment  and confirming the transaction was completed on an execution  only basis  
and that no advice was given. However, like the adjudicator I dont think Beckford James 
can avoid or limit is liability on the basis Miss G signed the form when  the transaction  
wasnt truly execution only.
Beckford James says Miss G would have  found  another business to assist with the 
transfer and the subsequent investment in the event it had refused  to provide her with 
the service. There isnt any substantial evidence to support this. If another  regulated  
business facilitated the transfer then Miss G would have a reason to complain against 
that business.
However I think its more likely  that Miss G, as an inexperienced investor, would have 
reconsidered going ahead with the transfer  had Beckford James,  a firm of regulated 
advisers had refused  to assist and warned her it was unsuitable and was high risk. 
In the event that Miss G had approached a new adviser then I would have expected  the 
advice from that business  would also have  been  not to invest all of his pension provision 
in one high risk investment. In my opinion any professional adviser  would have realised 
that the advice  to transfer to a SIPP with its high levels of expenses would have been 
inappropriate for an investor such as Miss G. 
Had Miss G been told not to invest in BellaVista  Arkansas USA (US land)  I consider that 
she would  have followed that advice. I say this because most people  who pay for 
professional advice do follow that advice.  In those circumstances Miss G would have left 
her deferred  pension benefits  in the scheme where they were. I therefore uphold  the 
complaint against  Beckford James LLP.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  against Beckford  James  LLP, and that a 
fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss G, as far as 
possible, into the position she would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Beckford James LLP must:
1.Obtain the current transfer  value of Miss Gs SIPP on the date of 
calculation, in line with commercial value established below,  including any 
outstanding charges.
Ref: DRN730908062.Pay a commercial value to buy Miss Gs US land investment.
The SlPP only exists because of the land investment. I think it would be best if this 
investment could be removed from the SIPP. Miss G would then be able to close  the 
SIPP, if she wishes. That would then allow her to stop paying  the fees for the SIPP. 
The valuation of the investment may prove  difficult,  as there is no market  for it. For 
calculating compensation, the business  should  agree an amount with the SlPP provider 
as a commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs  and take 
ownership of the investment.
If the business is unable  to buy Miss Gs investment in US land, it should give it a nil 
value for the purposes of calculating compensation. It will then need to pay any future 
fees for the SlPP until the arrangement can be cancelled. The business  may then ask 
Miss G to
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment she may 
receive from the eventual  sale of her investment in US land up to the amount of 
compensation paid.  That undertaking should  allow for the effect of any tax charges on 
the payment.
3.The business should then carry out a redress calculation in line with the pension 
redress methodology as amended by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision).  In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider  promptly  following  receipt  of notification of Miss Gs acceptance 
of the decision.
Beckford James LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) to obtain Miss Gs contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include  a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
OPS on Miss Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
The compensation in respect of any loss should  if possible be paid into Miss Gs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available 
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If the payment of the loss into a pension plan isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Miss G as a lump sum after 
making a notional deduction  to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.
For example, if Miss G would have been  yet to take a tax-free  cash  sum from the OPS, 
25% of the future loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according  to 
her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional 
Ref: DRN73090807deduction of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects  this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to   
Miss G within 90 days of the date Beckford James LLP receives notification of her 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date 
of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Beckford James LLP to pay    
Miss G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
Beckford James LLP should provide  details  of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple  
format.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73090808Copy of provisional  decision dated 18 July 2018
complaint
Miss G has complained that Beckford James LLP should not have advised her to 
transfer the value of her accrued deferred pension benefits in a former employers 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Miss G also argues that Beckford James  LLP should have stopped her from investing 
her SIPP in a land scheme in the USA.
Miss Gs partner  has also complained and this complaint has been investigated 
separately.
background
The background to the complaint was set out in full within  the 
adjudicators initial  assessment.  I have summarised this below  for 
completeness.
Miss G had deferred pension benefits  in an OPS  with a value of approximately  £81,000. 
In
2011 she was contacted  by Spyglass (the introducer) about transferring the value of 
her pension to a new arrangement.  Spyglass was not a regulated business and had 
no existing relationship with Miss G.
Spyglass discussed  Miss Gs pension with her and also discussed alternative 
investment options  with her  including a potentially profitable investment in land in 
the United States. In order to facilitate the investment, the value of her deferred 
pension benefits  had to be transferred  to a SIPP. Spyglass introduced  her to Beckford 
James LLP.
Beckford James LLP has said that when  Miss G contacted it, she was offered a full 
range of services  and advice. It said Miss G declined this offer and confirmed she 
wanted to proceed with a transfer of her pension to the SIPP provider, Sippchoice, on 
an execution only basis.
Beckford James LLP arranged this transfer  on an execution only basis.  However, 
Sippchoice did not allow  the proposed investment  as it could not satisfy its due 
diligence criteria.
Following this, again upon  the recommendations of Spyglass, Miss G approached 
Beckford James LLP. She asked them to facilitate a switch of SIPP provider  to 
Berkeley Burke Specialist Scheme Administration  (referred to from now on as 
Berkeley Burke).
Berkeley Burke did not advise Miss G on the suitability of the SIPP or the proposed  
investment. Berkeley Burke stated that Miss G should seek professional advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser.  Berkeley Burke stressed, in a letter to Miss 
G, that just because it was prepared to let her invest in the proposed  investment in US 
land that this did not mean that it had considered whether it was suitable  for her or not. 
Ref: DRN73090809That was for her adviser to do.
Beckford James LLP again offered to provide advice on the proposed  transfer to the 
SIPP
and the proposed subsequent investment. This was, again, declined  by Miss G.
Beckford James  LLP has stated that it carried out the transfer on an execution  only 
basis. It provided  a suitability letter  and set out that it did not provide advice. It also 
commented that there  were risks involved with the type of investment Miss G had 
chosen.
The suitability letter from Beckford James  LLP also confirmed that Spyglass had 
identified Berkeley Burke as an appropriate  provider and that Miss G had chosen to 
switch SIPP  provider to facilitate the investment put forward by Spyglass.
Following the failure of the investment  Miss G complained to Beckford James LLP 
about the advice given  and its suitability. Beckford James LLP did not uphold the 
complaint and said that:
Miss G was treated as an execution only consumer with no advice given  
about her investment  choices;
Although advice was offered, this was declined as the consumer had 
already decided how to invest the funds;
The business provided Miss G with risk warnings, and she decided  to 
proceed;
The business wrote  to Miss G to confirm that Berkeley Burke completed 
its due diligence  on the investment and Beckford James  LLP was not 
involved in this process; and
Although the introducer was not regulated,  Beckford James  LLP had 
offered to provide regulated advice to the consumer and this was 
declined.
Beckford James LLP argued that it was not responsible for the advice given as it 
carried out the transfers on an execution  only basis and that this was confirmed to 
Miss G on numerous occasions.  It has argued that it cannot be held responsible  for the 
advice that was given by an unregulated third party.
The regulators handbook  sets out the complaints  that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can investigate.  DISP 2.3.IR states:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory 
Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying  on one or 
more of the following  activities:
(1) regulated activities  or any ancillary  activities, including advice, carried  
on by the firm in connection  with them
DISP 2.3.3G gives the following guidance:
Complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for 
Ref: DRN730908010which the firm... is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm ... has accepted  responsibility).
So, for the Financial Ombudsman Service to be able to look at this complaint, the act 
or omission  complained of must  have been in the conduct of an activity covered  by 
our compulsory jurisdiction; and the act or omission must be that of the firm 
complained about.  In this case, the advice given  was regarding a pension switch  
which is a regulated activity and is covered by our compulsory jurisdiction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Beckford James LLP had been asked by Miss G to set up a SIPP  so that 
she could transfer  her existing pension benefits into it and then invest  in land in the US. 
Beckford James LLP was aware of this because the first SIPP provider it found,  
Sippchoice, had declined to accept the transfer  and the subsequent investment.
Having found  that Sippchoice would not accept the business, because of problems 
with its due diligence,  the unregulated introducer Spyglass found out that Berkeley 
Burke were prepared to accept the transfer and the proposed investment. Again it 
appears that the new SIPP provider was found by Spyglass and not by Beckford 
James LLP.
However I note that Beckford James LLP was fully aware of where Miss G was 
proposing to invest her pension monies. This is because  it commented to Miss G that 
there were risks involved  with the type of investment that Miss G had chosen.
As noted by the adjudicator the fact remains that Beckford James LLP facilitated a 
transfer that led to an investment it ought  to have known may have been  
unsuitable for its customer.
I understand that Beckford James LLP feels that the transaction was carried out 
on an execution only basis
However under PRIN 2.1.1.of the FCA handbook,  Principle 6 sets out that:
A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
It is apparent that Miss G wanted  to invest in land in the US. This was a high risk 
investment and under  Principle 2 of FCA handbook the business is required to have 
the interests of the investor (Miss G) at heart.
Beckford James LLP would have  been aware  that the proposed  investment was high 
risk as it had not been accepted by the first SIPP provider  selected. That SIPP 
provider said that it had not completed  the required due diligence  on the fund and 
would not accept it. Beckford James LLP then found  a new SIPP provider Berkeley 
Burke that was willing to take the high risk investment.
Ref: DRN730908011Beckford James  LLP should have been  aware that the fund selected was 
inappropriate for an investor  such as Miss G who had no investment experience and 
no savings to fall back on.
I do not think that the business should have  facilitated the transfer  in this manner 
given the clear risk of consumer detriment  under  Principle 2.
I consider that it is not enough under Principle 2 for the business to have simply set 
out that it was not providing advice and still facilitate the transfer  for the consumer  that 
it considered to be unsuitable.
In this case, the business decided to produce a letter for Miss G explaining the 
transaction and some  of the risks involved.  Although this letter  states that advice is not 
being provided it still provides warnings and comments on the transfer and the 
proposed investment choice.
Finally, I have considered  what  Miss G would  have done had Beckford James LLP 
refused to transact the proposed business  on the grounds that it was too risky and 
there was a high risk of detriment to Miss G. In my opinion, Miss G at that point would 
have thought that if the experts  were  saying dont transfer that she would have 
followed that advice  and not transferred.
In the circumstances  the SIPP would not have been set up and the deferred 
pension benefits  would  have remained in the OPS.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  the complaint against Beckford James  LLP, 
and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss G, as far 
as possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Beckford James LLP must:
1. Obtain the current transfer value  of Miss Gs SIPP on the date of calculation, in 
line with commercial value established below,  including any outstanding 
charges.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy Miss Gs US land investment.
The SlPP only exists because of the land investment. I think it would be best if this 
investment could be removed from the SIPP. Miss G would then be able to close  the 
SIPP, if she wishes. That would then allow her to stop paying  the fees for the SIPP. 
The valuation of the investment may prove  difficult,  as there is no market  for it. For 
calculating compensation, the business  should  agree an amount with the SlPP 
provider as a commercial value. It should  then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and 
take ownership of the investment.
If the business is unable  to buy Miss Gs investment in US land, it should give it a nil 
value for the purposes of calculating compensation. It will then need to pay any future 
fees for the SlPP until the arrangement can be cancelled. The business  may then ask 
Ref: DRN730908012Miss G to
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment she may 
receive from the eventual  sale of her investment in US land up to the amount of 
compensation paid.  That undertaking should  allow for the effect of any tax charges on 
the payment.
3. The business  should then carry out a redress calculation in line with the pension  
redress methodology as amended by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October 
2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using 
the most  recent financial  assumptions published  (at the date of that decision). In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted 
to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt  of notification of Miss Gs 
acceptance of the decision.
Beckford James LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) to obtain Miss Gs contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include  a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
OPS on Miss Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
The compensation in respect of any loss should if possible be paid into Miss Gs 
pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If the payment of the loss into a pension plan isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Miss G as a lump sum after 
making a notional deduction  to allow for future income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
For example, if Miss G would have been  yet to take a tax-free  cash  sum from the OPS, 
25% of the future loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according  to 
her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects  this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to 
Miss G within 90 days of the date Beckford James LLP receives notification of her 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date 
of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Beckford James LLP to 
pay Miss G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual 
time taken  to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  
and so any period  of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake  the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added  to the 90 day period in which  interest 
wont apply.
Ref: DRN730908013Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7309080