K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about the service he received from LEBC Group Ltd (LEBC) with 
respect to the potential  transfer his preserved  occupational pension scheme. 
He said that because of the delays caused  by LEBC the guarantee period for the transfer 
value expired, and the amount eventually transferred was about £87,000 less as a result.  
background
Mr K approached LEBC on 7 September 2016 and asked them  to provide advice in relation 
to the possible  transfer of his final salary pension scheme. LEBC  had been recommended  by 
Mr Ks previous employer  to give advice about the pension scheme without any advice 
charges.
Mr K was then advised to request a new Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) from his 
pension scheme, which  was produced on 26 September 2016 and guaranteed  until 19 
December 2016.  Mr K sent the updated CETV  to LEBC on 26 October 2016 and asked them 
to provide advice  on the potential transfer  and, having received no reply,  he chased  it on 15 
November 2016.  
On 30 November 2016 LEBC responded to Mr K to confirm it was investigating whether it 
was able to help him, and on 2 December 2016  it emailed  him again to confirm  that the 
appropriate department would be in touch. The CETV guarantee expired on 19 December 
2016. 
When Mr K obtained a new quotation in February 2017, the transfer value  was about 
£710,000, a reduction of about  £87,000 from the value he was given in September 2016.
Mr K complained to LEBC. He said that as a result  of the poor service and delays caused by 
LEBC he had suffered a financial  loss of about  £87,000.
LEBC upheld Mr Ks complaint in part. It said that it did not consider it had made any 
commitment to give advice, and also had not guaranteed to meet  the three month period and 
therefore could  not be held responsible for the drop in the transfer  value. It did accept 
however that there had been  an oversight  in responding  to Mr K, and offered him the sum of 
£250 towards the trouble  and upset caused in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Mr K rejected this offer, and brought his complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint, and recommended it be partly upheld. She said 
that LEBC had caused Mr K significant  distress and inconvenience in its dealings  with him, 
and recommended it pay him £750  in reflection of this. 
However, she also felt that it would  not be fair to hold LEBC responsible for the drop in 
transfer value  because Mr K did not provide the updated CETV to them until over a month of 
the guarantee had passed. She said she believed that even if LEBC had acted correctly, it 
was still unlikely the guarantee deadline would  have been met. 
Mr K did not agree  with the adjudicators  opinion because he believed  LEBC  should be held 
responsible for the reduction in the transfer  value. 
Ref: DRN79945482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to materially 
the same  conclusions as the adjudicator. 
It is not in dispute  that the service  provided  by LEBC fell well below what could reasonably 
be expected. There was a distinct lack of action or contact  by LEBC. In its original complaint 
response LEBC offered  Mr K the sum of £250 towards the trouble and upset  it had caused  
him. The adjudicator  recommended this be increased to £750.
The material  issue in dispute is whether  it is more  likely that, had LEBC  provided a 
reasonable level of service, the transfer  would have been made  before  the expiry  of the 
three month guarantee  period. 
As the adjudicator discussed, by the time Mr K passed the letter  from his pension scheme 
setting out the guaranteed  CETV  to LEBC, approximately seven weeks of the guarantee 
period remained.  Because of the nature of Mr Ks pension  scheme  he had to obtain advice 
from a suitably regulated  financial adviser  before he could transfer. And that assessment 
process in this situation would have been relatively  complex. It is not as straightforward  as 
running information  through their analysis software as Mr K suggests. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued guidance which states that the transfer 
out of a final salary  scheme is unlikely to be in the individuals  best interests, and so a robust 
and thorough advice process before any transfer  is recommended and expected. 
In the seven week period LEBC would have had to obtain significant  detail (fact finding) of 
Mr Ks financial circumstances and objectives before it could begin to consider if the transfer 
might be in Mr Ks interests.  The assessment involves far more  than just a calculation  of the 
likely monetary benefits of remaining in his pension scheme or transferring. This process 
would likely  include a detailed discussion with the consumer as well as obtaining further  
information from the pension scheme, and carrying out the necessary calculations  required 
by the regulator. These calculations are not straightforward, and are sometimes outsourced  
to external actuarial and other specialist firms. A detailed suitability report would also be 
required, along with follow up discussions. 
   
Bearing this in mind  my decision is that it is more likely  that the transfer wouldnt have been 
completed in the seven  weeks remaining.  So I do not believe it is reasonable to hold LEBC  
liable for the difference  in value between that quoted  by the pension  scheme in September 
2016 and the value  which Mr K eventually obtained.
I note Mr K has said that LEBC might have  been  able to obtain an extension  to the 
guarantee period from the pension  scheme. But that is highly unlikely given the CETV is 
based on prevailing variables such as interest  rates. The CETV did vary significantly from 
one three  month period to another. I do not believe such an extension  could likely have been 
obtained.  
I have taken into account that LEBC  did not provide any assurances that the deadline would 
be met, although that seems the result  of it generally failing to carry out any actions for Mr K 
or communicating  with him. But the fact remains that it did not lead to Mr K to believe that 
the transfer would be completed.  
Ref: DRN79945483The poor service from LEBC would have caused Mr K significant upset and inconvenience, 
especially given the lower value he eventually obtained. I agree with the adjudicators  
recommendation that a payment of £750 to reflect this is fair. 
However for the reasons  I have discussed, I cannot instruct LEBC to compensate  Mr K for 
the reduced transfer value.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part  in that LEBC provided poor service to Mr K which  caused 
him upset  and inconvenience.  
I therefore order TenetConnect  Limited  to pay Mr K £750 for the upset and inconvenience he 
was caused.  
I do not uphold  the complaint that TenetConnect Limited should compensate Mr K for the 
lower transfer value he received. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994548