K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
number of packaged bank accounts.
They have said that the accounts  were mis-sold because  they didnt know they were  paying 
for them and dont remember agreeing to having  the accounts, and that the packaged  
accounts were upgraded without their knowledge.  
Theyve also said that they were told to upgrade their account  to take out a 
loan/mortgage/overdraft and that they werent told they were  eligible for fee-free accounts. 
Theyve also said that they were told they would  be eligible for travel  insurance but found out 
they werent. And they say that they werent  told they were ineligible  for some of the other 
insurance benefits.
Theyve also said that they tried to cancel their account but were forced into keeping it.
background
Mr and Mrs Rs account history  is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account   some time prior to 1998
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus account  December 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier Life account  April 2011
Barclays changed its eligibility criteria for the Premier Life account in 2015.  This led 
to the account  being  transferred to a fee-free account in November 2015. This came  
with Home, Tech and Travel Plus packs to replicate the benefits that had previously 
been provided by the Premier  Life account.
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and ultimately  concluded that the packaged 
accounts and the packs that were later added  to the account had not been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  and so the matter has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website. And Ive used that to 
help me decide  this case.
Mr and Mrs Rs testimony  about the sales of the accounts appears to have been 
contradictory. For example, in their complaint to Barclays, they say the accounts were 
upgraded without  their knowledge. But they also provided recollections of the sales  (that 
they said they were  unaware of) and said they were  told they had to upgrade  to obtain 
overdrafts. And theyve made other  points,  such  as the salesman was pushy and they 
werent made aware fee-free accounts  were  available. And Mr and Mrs R appear to 
essentially be saying that each packaged account was mis-sold  for roughly the same 
reasons. So from the outset, Id like to make it clear that Ive not found Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint points particularly compelling or persuasive.
Ref: DRN77999692Nevertheless, I have considered what they have said alongside everything else that has 
been provided. And having done  so, Im not persuaded  that the packaged accounts were 
mis-sold. I will explain why.
Additions account
Because of how long ago the account was sold, Barclays has, understandably, very limited 
information available from when the account  was sold. However, it has been able to show  
that Mr and Mrs R held a fee-free account  before the Additions account  had been  launched.  
So I think its likely that they wouldve been aware  fee-free  accounts were available,  when 
they agreed to the fee-paying Additions account.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were told they had to upgrade  to the Additions  account to get an 
overdraft. 
In 1998 the Additions account cost £5 per month.  But the key benefit  of the account was that 
by having it, Barclays  would automatically  provide an overdraft facility with the account  
(although its not clear  what that amount was as it was so long ago). By having  the account, 
the first £100 of the overdraft was interest free. And having the Additions account  also meant 
theyd avoid paying a £5 overdraft usage fee that was applied to fee-free accounts. 
Looking at account ledgers that Barclays has provided from early 1998,  I can see that 
Mr and Mrs R were regularly using their overdraft. So I think its likely that having  and using  
an overdraft was important to them. And by agreeing to the Additions  account, they were 
effectively charged the same amount each month  i.e. £5, but paid less in interest as the first 
£100 of the Additions account was interest free.
Although there is little evidence available from the time of the sale,  I think the overdraft 
saving was in all likelihood the main reason why Mr and Mrs R upgraded to the Additions 
account. And I think its likely - being  the main benefit of the Additions account  at the time  
that Barclays explained this to them. So even if Barclays  had given them more information 
about the account, I doubt they wouldve  been  put off from upgrading to it. So I dont think it 
was mis-sold.
Additions Plus
At the time,  the Additions Plus cost £10 per month (i.e. £2.50 more per month  than the 
Additions account cost in December 2003) and the main additional benefit it provided that 
the Additions didnt  was worldwide travel insurance,  as well as enhanced levels  of 
breakdown cover. It also included the £250 interest free overdraft facility  and preferential  
interest rates on balances  overdrawn by more than that amount, and breakdown  cover  that 
the Additions account provided.
Overall I think  its more  likely that Mr and Mrs R agreed to this account knowing they didnt 
have to. I say that because if they thought they had to have a fee-paying packaged bank 
account to have an overdraft, I wouldve expected them to have kept the cheaper Additions 
account rather than agree to an even more expensive account.  
Mr and Mrs R have mentioned that they had to agree  to an upgrade because they took out a 
loan. But according  to Barclays records they had applied for a loan over a month before the 
Additions Plus account was sold to them. So I dont think its likely that they agreed to it for 
that reason either.
Ref: DRN77999693Overall, whilst its difficult for me to understand why they did agree to it, at the same time I 
cant see that any of the reasons why they think it was mis-sold  apply  either. And given that 
theyd held the Additions account for over six years by that point, Im satisfied that they were 
aware they didnt  have  to have the Additions  Plus account if they didnt want  it.
I appreciate that Barclays may not have  provided all of the information that it shouldve.  But 
Ive not seen anything about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances that makes  me think  they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account,  had they been given more  information 
about it. And although they may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think that it has been poor 
value for money,  that doesnt mean it was mis-sold.
So overall, Ive not seen  enough to say that the Additions Plus account was mis-sold.
Premier Life
Barclays has provided a copy of a form signed by Mrs R on 12 April 2011.  This confirmed 
that Mrs R had agreed to upgrade the account  she held jointly  with Mr R. It also confirmed 
that it would  cost £25 per month and that further  account  information would be sent to them 
shortly. So Im satisfied  that Mrs R did agree  to the upgrade.
Ive checked Barclays records  and cant see that Mr and Mrs R applied  for a loan around  the 
time of the Premier Life upgrade. And they were regularly using their overdraft prior to 
upgrading the account too. So Im not persuaded that they agreed to the Premier Life 
account because  they thought they had to have it to borrow  money.  
I note that one of the benefits it provided was a £1,000  interest free overdraft facility, and 
preferential interest rates  on balances overdrawn by more than that amount. So I think its 
possible that Mr and Mrs R agreed to it because it included that benefit and its perhaps this 
benefit that Mrs R recalls being discussed.  Ive not seen that the Premier Life, or the 
previous packaged accounts, were sold on an advised basis. This means that Barclays  
didnt have to check if they were  right for Mr and Mrs R. But it did have to give them enough 
information to understand  what they were  agreeing  to.
Like the previous  accounts, I cant be sure of what information Mr and Mrs R were  given  
when the account was sold to them. But again,  Ive not seen  anything  to suggest  that they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had they been given more  information about it. For 
example, they say that they werent  told that theyd be ineligible  for the travel  insurance. But 
based on what theyve  told us about  their circumstances, I see no reason why they wouldve 
been ineligible to rely on the travel cover  for trips within the UK and abroad. And although 
they said they had breakdown cover and mobile  phone insurance elsewhere, it wouldve 
been up to them to cancel their existing  policies should they have wanted to rely on the 
Premier Life benefits.
So once again, whilst  I appreciate they probably  now regret upgrading their account to a 
Premier Life account, Ive not seen enough  to say that they were misled  or pressured into 
upgrading their account by Barclays. So I dont think it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN77999694Migration to the Home,  Tech and Travel  Plus Packs
Due to changes made to the eligibility criteria for Premier banking  customers,  Barclays  
changed Mr and Mrs Rs account to a fee-free account in November 2015.  But to replicate  
the range  of benefits theyd had access to on the Premier  Life account, Barclays  added 
Home, Tech  and Travel  Plus packs to their account.
Barclays was allowed to make such changes,  which arent sales, but only if they gave  
sufficient notice to account holders of the changes that were being made and what  their 
options were.
Barclays has provided copies of letters sent in January, August and October 2015  these  
explained the changes that would be taking place on Mr and Mrs Rs account. And these 
letters explained that Mr and Mrs R could opt out of the packs  that would be added  to their 
account if they no longer needed  those benefits.
As such,  Im satisfied that Barclays took reasonable steps to inform Mr and Mrs R about the 
changes that were made to their account and gave them  enough time to decide whether 
they wanted to keep  the insurance benefits  that theyd previously received on the Premier 
Life account.
Therefore, I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the migration of 
Mr and Mrs Rs account in 2015.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7799969