K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the replacement carpet that was installed by Aviva  
Insurance Limited as part of its settlement of their claim made under their home contents 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs P suffered a spillage on their carpet  so they made a claim. Aviva installed a 
replacement carpet in Mr and Mrs Ps lounge.
Once the replacement carpet had been  in place, Mr and Mrs P became concerned that it 
was showing signs of tracking and shading where people had walked across  it. They  say 
that the carpet they had in place prior to the spillage did not suffer  from tracking and 
shading, so they complained to Aviva about the replacement carpet. 
Aviva says it had the replacement carpet  independently inspected  which  showed no 
manufacturing fault. It says the replacement carpet matched the carpet  sample 
Mr and Mrs P picked.  Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with its response so they brought  the 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and he didnt uphold  the complaint.  He thought 
Aviva had acted fairly in relying on the findings of an independent  expert. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. They  say that the 
carpet sample they picked from was too small to be able to identify the tracking and shading  
issue. So the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to them 
but Ill explain my reasons  why.
Avivas policy  terms gives  them, rather than the policyholder, the choice as to how a claim is 
settled i.e. by repairing,  replacing, paying cash etc. Aviva settled Mr and Mrs Ps claim by 
installing a replacement carpet in their lounge. As Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the new 
carpet once it was installed, Aviva arranged for an independent expert to inspect it.
The expert found that the new carpet Mr and Mrs P selected was of similar pile content to 
their previous carpet.  But it says the new carpet had a plain finish whilst their previous carpet 
had a degree of pattern with an embossed finish. The expert said the new carpet  changes  
colour as the pile is brushed in one direction or another  because of the way the pile reflects 
the light. It found no fault with the carpet.  
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy with the new carpet  so Aviva arranged  for a further 
inspection to take place. That also found  no fault with the carpet and said the carpet pile has 
light and dark shading  when the pile is flattened in a different direction due to the natural lie 
of the carpet.   
Ref: DRN77760212Its important to note that Im not an expert on carpets  so Ive relied on evidence  from 
others who are. In this case, this is the independent experts who visited Mr and Mrs Ps 
house. Ive read the independent experts  report that was sent to Aviva. And, Ive reviewed 
the photos provided. Mr and Mrs P were also given the option of getting another 
independent report  themselves, but they didnt. So taking everything into account, I think 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably by relying on its independent experts opinions that there 
was nothing wrong with the carpet  that was installed. Aviva couldnt repair their previous 
carpet, so it offered to replace it which Mr and Mrs P accepted at the time. They also 
selected their new carpet themselves. So whilst I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs P werent  
happy with their new carpet once it was laid I cant say that Aviva has done  anything wrong. 
I note that Mr and Mrs P say that the carpet  sample they were provided with was too small to 
be able to determine the shading of it. Avivas expert says that it had a larger  sample at the 
back when Mr and Mrs P selected their carpet so they shouldve  been aware of the shading. 
As Mr and Mrs P selected the new carpet themselves, I think  they wouldve been aware of 
the shading. And if they thought the samples  were too small, I think  they shouldve  queried 
this with the experts at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776021