K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Canada Square  Operations Limited (then trading as EGG) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card.
background
EGG was an internet  based  account.  In October  2001 the policy  was added to Mrs Fs credit 
card account  when she applied for the card online via the EGG website. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs Fs main  concern is that she had other  means 
she couldve  relied on if she couldnt  work.  Mrs F also told us that it wasnt made clear to her 
that the policy was optional.  And she said if the policys costs and benefits had been properly 
explained, she wouldve  declined  it.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think EGG  made Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it. On the 
online application form Mrs F completed,  she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance,  I find that Mrs F 
wouldve seen that she had a choice about  protecting her card repayments and she wanted  
to do so at the time. 
EGG didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  EGG  gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Mrs F was asked  to decide about  the PPI, the cover  was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Mrs F couldve have benefitted  from having the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs F has told us about  her financial circumstances  including 
her sick pay arrangements at work. 
The policy wouldve protected  her if shed lost her job as well as paying out if she was 
disabled or too sick to work. It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay. So I think  the PPI 
couldve given her a useful benefit at what mightve  been a difficult time  especially if she 
had extra costs  as a result of being  off work sick. 
The PPI wouldve more  than covered  her EGG  card monthly repayments and cleared her 
card balance if shed  needed to claim for the full 12 months. 
Ref: DRN77123062Mrs F hasnt  given  us details of any other means she couldve depended  on if she wasnt  
able to work. So I can see why she mightve  wanted to have PPI.  
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Mrs Fs case. So, I dont  think  having more  information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Mrs F with the protection broadly described  on the website which shed indicated she was 
willing to pay for. 
I think EGG  couldve  explained the policy  cost better  than it did. But, the policy seems to 
have been affordable for Mrs F when  she took it out. And, looked at overall,  given the 
benefits PPI offered Mrs F, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  that, even though EGG  mightnt have done everything it shouldve  done, I dont 
find that Mrs F lost out because of anything EGG did wrong.  So it doesnt need to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7712306