K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Tesco  Underwriting  Limited  voided his car insurance  policy  following a
claim.
background
Mr R had a car insurance policy with Tesco  which he renewed in March  2018. He added  his
daughter, Miss R, onto the policy as a named driver in May 2018. He did this using  his online
account but spoke to a representative  of Tesco on the phone at the same time.
Miss R had a car accident in November 2018, so Mr R notified a claim to Tesco.
Tesco determined  in December 2018  that Mr R had made a misrepresentation when
adding Miss R to the policy. Hed completed  the information online to show  that shed been
driving for just over a year. But Miss R had in fact only been driving for a matter of days.
Tesco deemed this to be a careless misrepresentation. As a result,  it voided Mr Rs policy
from 10 May 2018  the date shed been added, meaning that the policy was treated as non-
existent from that date, so the loss or damage  claimed for wouldnt be covered.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He agreed with Tesco that Mr R had made a
qualifying misrepresentation, and also that this was careless  a term used in the
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). But he didnt
think that Tesco had acted fairly  in voiding the policy.  He thought  the fair outcome would be
to reinstate the policy in Mr Rs name  only and to remove  any markers or records of
voidance, but that the claim shouldnt be paid. Mr R agreed but Tesco didnt   so the case
was escalated for an ombudsmans review  and, therefore, passed  to me.
I contacted Tesco informally  to explain how I was minded to proceed   and to provide my
interpretation of the relevant legal and equitable  principles  in an effort  to resolve  this
complaint at the earliest possible stage through mediation (as our rules encourage). In short, 
Id asked Tesco to consider reinstating  the policy  and then to consider the claim in line with 
the terms and conditions. The key factor here was that Mr R had told Tesco over the 
telephone that Miss R had only been  driving for a few days.
Tesco provided its thoughts on my proposals and why it disagreed with them. These  can
be summarised as follows:
-It was Mr Rs responsibility to provide accurate  information and to check the 
documents it sent him to make  sure all the information hed provided  was right;
-It did not mislead Mr R, nor influence what he entered online. He didnt take 
reasonable care when  entering  this information;
-It shouldnt be asked  to consider the claim as it wouldnt  have provided Miss R with 
cover for that vehicle;
-The careless provision in CIDRA  exists for situations like this;
-The issue is around the representation made by Mr R in terms of the written versus  
oral disclosure. Mr R avoided the administration fee by amending  the policy online so 
accepted the accompanying  risk and responsibility  of doing so; and
-Accepting risk, pricing, and terms and conditions are all systems-driven.  Its not 
reasonable to expect  any member  of staff to memorise the level of information 
required to know whether Tesco would be willing to insure someone.  And Tesco  
doesnt have a rule that all new drivers would be declined.
Ref: DRN73328672my provisional decision
For completeness, and to give Mr R a fair opportunity to respond  too, I issued a provisional 
decision in May 2020. In it I said:
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Misrepresentations) Act 2012
CIDRA provides,  in effect,  that an insurer only has a remedy  against a policyholder  for 
nondisclosure or misrepresentation if he has breached his duty to take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent facts  that are relevant to the insurers  fair assessment of the risk under
proposal.
If there is a misrepresentation made in breach of this duty and the insurer can prove that it
adversely affected  its underwriting of the policy, that is deemed a qualifying 
misrepresentation. This means the insurer may have a remedy  up to and including  voidance
depending on the nature  and quality of the misrepresentation, i.e. whether it is regarded as
careless or reckless/deliberate.
In the case of a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says the insurer ought to do what it
wouldve done but for the misrepresentation, which might entail a proportionate settlement.
In other  words, if its contemporaneous underwriting evidence indicates that it would never
have accepted the proposal on the true facts,  it may still void cover  but should  return
premiums. By contrast, a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation entitles the insurer to the
remedy of voidance without a premium refund.
The above  is just my informal summary  of the relevant law to help put my reasoning  in
context; its not a definitive guide.  The parties should refer directly  to CIDRA and/or seek
independent legal advice if they require further information on such  matters.
Was there a breach  of duty?
So, the first step in deciding this complaint is to determine whether there  has actually been a
misrepresentation in breach of the duty of reasonable  care.  When  deciding this, there are
numerous factors to consider, including  how clearly the insurer  communicated  the
importance of answering those  questions  (or the possible consequences of failing to do so);
and if the insurer was, or ought to have been,  aware of any particular characteristics or
circumstances of the actual consumer.
In this case, Tesco was aware of the particular circumstances of the additional person that
Mr R sought to add as a named driver  i.e. the length of time Miss R had been driving for.
Mr R was on the phone to Tesco at the same time as trying to amend his policy.  It was clear
that he was unsure about what he had to do so he was being helped  through  the process,
which resulted in a lengthy phone conversation. Mr R told the representative that his
daughter had only been driving for a few days.  And there was also a conversation about how
the amendment  would  result in his premiums increasing from about £40 per month to about
£90 per month, with him indicating this was higher than he expected. The representative,
who was accessing  his account information throughout the call, said in response, if she only
passed her test the other day, it could be because shes a brand new driver  as well. Thatll
be influencing the price. So, theres  no doubt here that the representative  acting  for and
on behalf of Tesco  knew that Miss R had only been driving for a few days.
Ref: DRN73328673Ive also thought about how clearly  the importance  of answering the questions correctly  was
communicated to Mr R. Its clear  from the call that Mr R was having  trouble with completing
the amendment. So the representative was making  suggestions around  what  he could  do to
try to resolve  the issue.  And that became the focus of the call  trying to process the change.
But it does  mean  that there wasnt any emphasis given  orally to the importance of checking
the information being entered  was correct. I think its fair to say that Mr R was likely to have
been focusing more on the conversation  with the representative than on any wording  that
was showing online. And I dont think Tescos  representative pressed upon Mr R the
importance of answering the questions accurately online.
Its common ground that Mr R made  an error when completing the online form. But theres a
material difference between making an error  in good  faith and making a misrepresentation in
breach of the duty of reasonable  care. From  listening  to the call, I think  its very clear that
Mr R was open and honest about  Miss Rs circumstances   and was trying to answer  to the
best of his knowledge and belief. As mentioned  above, when deciding if theres been a
breach of duty, the factors to consider under CIDRA include if the insurer  was, or ought to
have been, aware  of any particular characteristics or circumstances of the actual consumer.
Given this, Im minded  to conclude that, despite  the factual error online,  Mr R didnt breach
his duty of reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation because Tesco had actual  or,
at the very least, constructive  knowledge  of Miss Rs limited  driving experience.
What are the remedies  under CIDRA  where  there hasnt been a breach of the duty of
reasonable care?
CIDRA states (my emphasis):
An insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation  made by the
consumer before a consumer insurance  contract was entered into or varied  only if 
(a) the consumer  made  the representation in the breach  of the duty set out in section
2(2)
But as Ive said above, I dont think Mr R did breach his duty. So, we dont need to go on to
decide whether  the misrepresentation was qualifying (i.e. adversely affected the risk 
assessment) or whether  it was deliberate/reckless or just a careless mistake.  It follows that
Tesco doesnt have  a remedy in law for the error that was made in the final stages of the
application process. It only has a remedy if there was a breach of duty. When  insurance is
proposed via multiple channels or processes  such  as phone and online  I think it is only
fair and reasonable, and in line with CIDRA  principles, to take a holistic view of what  actually
happened. We have to try to work out with the benefit of hindsight whether or not a
consumer was in breach  of his statutory duty to take reasonable care over material facts.  It
is artificial and unfair to look at just one part of the process rather than the overall context.
Other considerations
Tesco has said that it wouldnt  be reasonable to expect any member of staff to memorise the
level of underwriting  information required to know whether it would be willing to insure
someone. It pointed out that it doesnt  have a rule that all new drivers would be declined.
Seemingly, it depends on a number of factors such as the type of vehicle being  insured.
I do appreciate what Tesco is saying, and I accept that it is harder  to fix a large corporate
body with constructive  knowledge than a natural person. But there is caselaw that indicates
Ref: DRN73328674a firm can have constructive knowledge  of information so long as it is conveyed to the right
sort of person. For example, if Mr R had disclosed the correct information  to the wrong  sort
of employee (e.g. the security team  or finance department), that would probably  not fix
Tescos underwriters with constructive knowledge  of facts relevant to the proposed risk. But
disclosing that information to staff expressly  charged  with selling and advising on insurance
applications is completely different. They ought reasonably  to have relevant information in
order to be able to advise properly; or at least have access to the information or to someone
who knows (cf. Evans v Employers Mutual Insurance  Association  Ltd [1936]  1 K.B. 505; and
Mahli v Abbey Life Assurance Co Ltd [1994]  C.L.C. 615). In the Mahli case, the Court of
Appeal rejected  the policyholders  appeal that the insurer had constructive knowledge of
information from previous  events (including  a failed application). But the majority of
judgments cited and approved important principles on when underwriters might  reasonably
be fixed with constructive knowledge  which, if ignored, might give rise to a waiver of any
right to void for misrepresentation. Lord Justice Rose said (my emphasis):
I agree  with [counsel for the appellant]  that Evans  v Employers Mutual  is the most
closely relevant of her authorities. I am unable to accept,  however, that that case is
authority for the proposition that the defendants in the present case should have
imputed to them knowledge of the contents of all the documents in their records in
relation to insurance business proposed by the deceased regardless of when, to
whom and in what circumstances those documents were supplied.
In my judgment the provision of information  to an insurance company does not
necessarily afford to that company  knowledge  sufficient to found waiver by election:
whether it does afford such knowledge depends on the circumstances of its receipt.
In particular, information will not give rise to such knowledge unless it is received
by a person  authorised  and able to appreciate  its significance. In the present
case that necessarily involves the collation  by the defendants' underwriting
department of information received by the defendants at three different times for
three different purposes.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I must take account of
the law even though I am not bound  by it under our statutory rules.  It seems to me the ratio
of these Court of Appeal authorities  which  are still binding precedents for lower and later
courts  is that insurance underwriters should have constructive knowledge of matters  that
are disclosed  to their authorised servants  or agents in relation to delegated transactions.  In
Evans,  the relevant information was known to the underwriters subordinate and therefore to
them; whereas in Mahli , the information  was clearly separated in time and space from the
disputed application.  Even taking account of significant changes in the way insurance is now
mediated and sold,  the case here is still more akin to Evans insofar  as Mr R was dealing with
an employee acting  on behalf of Tescos  underwriters  and for purposes  directly related to
the very application  and contract  they now wish to void.
The law reinforces my opinion of whats the fair and reasonable  outcome. But even leaving it
to one side, the simple  fact here is that Tesco, as the regulated insurer, had all the
information about who it would and wouldnt insure,  whereas Mr R didnt. So, I think  there
was an onus on Tescos underwriters and their direct representatives to do more here. For
example, they couldve explained that they dont always offer insurance to new drivers;  or
emphasised the importance of completing online  information carefully  and double-checking
the documentation when he received it.
Ref: DRN73328675From the evidence Ive been given, it appears  that amendments made over the phone by
Tesco would incur  a £25 administration fee, and amendments  made by the policyholder
using the online portal wouldnt.  Tesco said that, by avoiding the administration  fee and
making the amendment  online, Mr R accepted the risk and responsibility of amending the
policy himself.  And that theres an issue around the representation made by Mr R in terms of
his written disclosure versus his oral disclosure. But I dont think it was made clear to Mr R
that he was taking on additional risk by avoiding this fee. To me, it came across  that the
representative was helping him to make the amendment  online as he wasnt sure what to do
and wanted to help him to avoid the fee. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been trying  to
avoid it himself; he seemingly wasnt given the option. And Tesco  didnt try to sell him the
option of it making  the amendment on his behalf  for a fee. I think it likely  that, had Mr R been
presented with the option of Tesco making  the amendment for a fee, or completing it himself
for free, he wouldve  elected to complete it by himself. But, had this happened,  Id expect
there to have been some more focus  on the transfer  of risk and responsibility.
Although Tesco has said that it wouldnt have insured Miss R, the fact here is that it did. It
entered into a contract that didnt take into account all the information. It had the information
constructively or actually  in the phone  call  and missed the chance to highlight the
difficulties of adding  brand-new young  drivers.  Without evidence  of a breach of the duty of
reasonable care, Tesco does not have a remedy and must  honour the terms and conditions
of the contract  entered into.
It's important  to be clear  that I dont think that Mr R is blameless here  he, without a doubt,
made an error. And this error contributed  to Tesco entering into a contract that we know it
wouldnt ordinarily have. So, I think it would be fair for Mr R to cover  the consequential  costs
of expenses hes incurred  in relation to having  to purchase another  policy elsewhere. Had
things gone as they should, it seems likely that Mr R would have had to insure him and/or his
daughter elsewhere  at greater cost  so this doesnt look like a loss necessarily caused by
any wrongful act or omission of Tesco.
But Im minded to conclude that Tesco, under CIDRA, doesnt have a remedy  against Mr R
for the error  here. So it should:
- Reinstate  the policy for the originally agreed  period of cover;
- Remove any references to the voidance of the policy  from internal  and external
  databases; and
- Consider  the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr R accepted my provisional  decision.  But Tesco responded with some further points:
-It says it cant  reinstate the policy and presumes that Mr R has insured the car 
elsewhere by now anyway. It questioned whether its being  asked  to reinstate the 
policy with the error,  or provide a new policy based on the correct details which are 
unacceptable. It expressed  surprise  that its being  instructed to continue cover for a 
risk it deems unacceptable, even when its been told to cover a claim. 
-It also asked for me to reconsider the suggestion  that the importance of customers 
providing accurate  information wasnt made  clear. It referenced  a recording that it 
says all customers hear prior to speaking to an adviser. Within  this, it asks customers 
to answer all questions  to the best of their knowledge, as any incorrect information  
could invalidate their insurance. 
Ref: DRN73328676my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  Ill be upholding this complaint. But Ill 
respond to the points  raised by Tesco below.
In the evidence provided by Tesco initially, I wasnt given  the transcript of the recorded 
message, or an actual  recording  of it. But, now that Ive been given this, I dont think it 
makes a difference in this case.  I say this because my intention wasnt to imply that Tesco  
didnt make any reference to the importance  of answering the questions accurately. Instead, 
I felt that there hadnt been  enough emphasis on this point, particularly given the context and 
individual circumstances  of this case. So, while I note the script  Ive been provided  with does 
warn consumers that incorrect information could  invalidate their insurance,  I dont think this 
is enough when  I factor in the conversation that followed. It remains the case that the adviser 
focused on trying to resolve the issues with processing the change.
In my provisional decision I said, it does  mean  that there wasnt  any emphasis given orally 
to the importance of checking the information being  entered was correct. I note that the 
scripted message  wouldve been delivered  orally.  But I do think theres a substantial  
difference between  information delivered  through a recorded message  and through  the 
human being that youre speaking with directly, specifically about the policy  you hold. While I 
acknowledge it was mostly likely that Tesco did give warnings around the importance of 
providing correct information in this recorded message and online, I dont think  the 
importance of this was sufficiently highlighted  during  the conversation with the adviser.  I 
dont think there was enough  to make Mr R aware  that hed need to take reasonable care in 
answering the questions accurately online,  regardless of how carefully  and honestly  he 
answered the questions with the telephone adviser.  
In relation to reinstating the policy, I think this may have been misunderstood. Im not asking 
Tesco to insure  Mr and Miss R now. Instead,  I dont think its fair that this shows  as a voided 
policy. As Ive said previously, Im satisfied Tesco entered  into a contract with Mr and 
Miss R, whether or nor it intended to do so given the facts that have now been highlighted. 
So, I think Tesco should ensure its records show that Mr and Miss R were insured for the 
originally intended  period  of cover, which will have now ended   and, if necessary, provide 
written confirmation of that should Mr R encounter future difficulties with obtaining insurance 
at a fair premium or at all. (Mr R is of course  also free to show  this decision to insurers  and 
brokers.) Theres  no requirement for Tesco to enter  into a new policy  with them.  Its just a 
question of righting  the wrong  and returning  Mr R to the position he would have been in but 
for the voidance: equity  regards as done  that which ought to have been  done. 
Ref: DRN73328677my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and before, I uphold this complaint against Tesco Underwriting 
Limited. I ask it to:
-Reinstate the policy for the originally-agreed  period of cover within 28 days of 
receiving notice  of Mr Rs acceptance  of this decision;
-Within that same  period, remove any references to the voidance of the policy from 
internal and external databases  and consider the claim in line with the policy  terms 
and conditions; and
-If requested within the next five years, provide Mr R with a written, factual 
confirmation explaining that its voidance  was quashed by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service as being contrary to the parties  respective rights  and responsibilities  under 
CIDRA. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.  
Ref: DRN7332867