K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 1990 Leeds Permanent  Building  Society  sold Mr and Mrs W a PPI policy at the same time 
as they applied for a mortgage.  The building society later merged into Halifax and then 
Bank of Scotland plc. I will refer to Bank of Scotland in this decision as it is responsible for 
the complaint.
The policy was in Mr Ws sole name  and gave him accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed so it 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
No documents  Mr and Mrs W are likely to have signed at the time are available.  That is not 
surprising, or unreasonable, given the sale took place nearly 30 years ago. In cases like this, 
where the evidence  is incomplete, I have to make  my decision  on the balance of probabilities  
 that is, based  on I think what is most likely given the evidence we do have, and the wider 
circumstances.
I cant know what was discussed during  the sale. Mr and Mrs W say they dont recall  PPI 
was offered as optional,  and dont believe they agreed to take it out. The bank disputes  this 
and says its more  likely  than not the optional nature of the PPI was verbally explained in 
good time before the sale was concluded. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr and Mrs W are giving their honest recollections of the sale,  I have to 
take into account how long ago it was and how that might impact what  they recall.  Overall, 
without stronger evidence  I cant fairly  conclude Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear the PPI 
was optional, and Mr and Mrs W didnt agree to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy for Mr W to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check it 
was suitable for him. From what I know of his circumstances, I think  it was. I say this 
because:
Mr W was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt  seem he would have been affected by 
any of the main limitations of the policy, such as those affecting some  people with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract.
   
Mr W says he was entitled to at least three months sick pay but the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to his work  benefits  and for up to 12 months. It also gave up to 12 
months redundancy cover.  Mr W says that their parents would have helped as they 
had significant  savings. But thats  not suitable  alternative protection.  Its not 
Ref: DRN71840892guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change. The PPI would have  meant 
they could have used any savings in their name to cover other living  expenses  whilst 
not working, or kept them  intact  for their future  needs. 
Mr and Mrs W were borrowing a large sum of money  over a long term and the debt 
was secured against their home.  So given  the serious consequences of not being 
able to make  their mortgage repayments,  overall I think  they would have found the 
PPI useful if Mr W was sick or lost his job.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W, and 
it was competitively priced. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland told Mr and Mrs W about the PPI at the time of the sale.  
So its possible it didnt give them enough  information about the policy.  But for the same 
reasons I think Mr and Mrs W would  have found  the PPI useful, I think  that its unlikely  better 
information would have changed their decision.
 
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws comments  carefully.  Mr W argues that there  are 
inaccuracies in some  of his mortgage documentation and this supports his view that the PPI 
was incorrectly applied  to his account.  And whilst I can understand why they undermine his 
confidence in the bank,  I cant  fairly agree that they show the PPI was mis-sold. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with this sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7184089