K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Mr B took out the store  card 
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr B 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr B says he was told that he couldnt get the store card unless he took out the PPI. Ive 
considered what  hes said but Ive also looked at the other evidence available  to come to 
a decision on what I think is more likely to have  happened. Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form Mr B saw and signed in store. In this there  is a section for PPI where 
Mr B has signed in the box to agree to take out the cover. But there is nothing here to 
suggest that Mr B wouldnt get the card without agreeing to the policy and I think Mr B 
couldve left this box blank if he didnt want the policy.  So based on the evidence  Ive 
seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
And looking at his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking out the cover.
Mr B says the policy was unnecessary and unsuitable for him, but he also says he didnt 
have any sick pay from his employer  or any savings or insurance to help him make his 
repayments had he been suddenly unable to work.  Upon a successful  claim the PPI 
wouldve paid 15% of Mr Bs outstanding monthly  balance for up to 12 months.  And as 
Mr B didnt  have any other  means  to support himself financially if he wasnt working, I 
think the PPI wouldve  been useful for him.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN76482642For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7648264