K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Mr L have  complained about  the way Aviva Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim 
under their motor policy following a road traffic accident with another driver.
background
Ms B was involved in an accident in March 2017,  which she reported to Aviva  who initially 
indicated this would be a non-fault accident  in Ms Bs favour.  She was a named driver on Mr 
Ls policy. In September 2017, Aviva again  confirmed the accident had been  recorded as 
non-fault.
But in March 2018, Aviva  then said the other drivers  insurer  had contact it to request liability  
was split on a 50/50 split, but it hadnt  told Mr L this. And it appeared Aviva hadnt contacted 
the witness provided by Ms B.
The claim was eventually  settled on 50/50 basis but on CUE Aviva had showed the (No 
Claims Discount) NCD was allowed which indicates its not registered by Aviva  as a fault 
claim against Ms B.
Ms B was very unhappy about Avivas handling  of the matter, so she complained. Aviva 
confirmed it hadnt  handled the issue proactively,  most  especially  as regards contacting  the 
witness. But it confirmed its records still show the claim to be a non-claim for Ms B and the 
NCD wasnt affected and that the industry database  Claims  and Underwriting  Exchange  
(CUE) showed Aviva  wasnt considering it as a fault accident. Aviva  initially paid Ms B £300 
compensation for its delays and lack of service and later increased that by another £150.
Ms B remained dissatisfied  and brought her complaint to us. The investigator  initially  thought 
Aviva needed to do more  as regards how the incident was recorded on CUE.  Aviva  said it 
couldnt do this and therefore  the investigator  didnt  think  Aviva needed to do anymore. On 
this basis, Ms B was dissatisfied so her and Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres no dispute Aviva  didnt deal with this claim in a prompt  and efficient manner, and it 
didnt keep Ms B and Mr L appropriately  updated. It also unreasonably delayed in contacting  
the witness. Its paid Ms B and Mr L a total of £450  in compensation, which I consider to be 
reasonable in these  circumstances for the distress and inconvenience  it caused them.  Its 
also, in line with what I would have awarded  had Aviva  not done  so first.
Aviva are duty bound  to record  the incident  on CUE.  Ive looked at the CUE entry and it 
clearly shows  Aviva  allowed the NCD, which means its not recorded as fault against  Ms Bs 
record as otherwise her NCD  would  be affected and consequently reduced. Therefore,  any 
other insurer who looks at CUE  can see this and react accordingly dependent  on its own 
underwriting criteria. 
Ref: DRN70563432It also means that obviously Aviva has no influence over how another insurer  treats  this in 
the premium amount  it might offer Ms B and/or Mr L. If another  insurer acts to their 
disadvantage, thats a matter for Ms B and Mr L to take up with that other  insurer. Ms B and 
Mr L should also be aware that many motor insurers will rate the premium that such an 
accident occurred  too, regardless of whose  fault it was. 
Further under  the policy,  Aviva  has the right to deal with any claim as it thinks  fit. This is 
common in almost every motor policy so I dont  consider it unusual. This service  expects it to 
do this reasonably however. And here as Aviva  has acknowledged  it didnt contact the 
witness or indeed  keep Ms B and Mr L appropriately  updated.  But as I detailed  above, I 
consider its compensation for this is also reasonable.
So to conclude I think Aviva has detailed the incident correctly on CUE for Ms Bs record, as 
it clearly shows  Ms Bs NCD to have been  allowed. Aviva has confirmed there are no entries  
logged against  Mr L on CUE. Ms B has told us her new insurer increased her premium by 
over 16% because of this incident. However if Ms B thinks thats  unfair given the CUE entry  
in her name allows her NCD,  then she needs to take that up directly  with that insurer. Aviva  
also confirmed for the renewals it provided  Ms B and Mr L since the incident, that it didnt  
load or increase the price  due to the incident  either.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7056343