K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the response of Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VFS) to issues she raised about the price of the car she bought  from it at the end of her 
hire agreement. 
Miss C is represented in this complaint by her father.
 
background
Miss C says at end of her hire agreement she agreed a price with VFS to buy the car from it. 
She says after shed bought the car, she received an invoice for excess mileage under the 
hire agreement amounting to nearly  £900.  And she says she asked VFS questions about the 
mileage that formed the basis  for the valuation  of the car when she bought it, but VFS didnt 
answer her questions.
Miss C also says she particularly wants to know whether the sale valuation was based on a 
lower mileage than the actual miles shed covered, including the excess. And she says if so 
the car will have been worth less than the price she paid.
VFS says the price Miss C was quoted when she bought  the car was based on it having 
covered 24,000 miles, which was the mileage figure shed provided. And it says the quote 
and confirmed purchase order form both make  clear that the purchase of the car was 
separate to the terms of her hire agreement and that any excess mileage  would be charged 
separately.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Cs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. She said theres  no proof the price  she 
paid took account of the actual mileage  shed covered.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Car leasing agreements  usually have an agreed maximum mileage and an excess  charge 
for any additional miles covered. This is due to the number  of miles a cars covered  being an 
important factor in determining its value.
I understand Miss C complained to VFS about the excess  mileage charges it was requiring 
her to pay, because shed  understood there  would be nothing else to pay once shed bought 
the car at the price  the parties had agreed.
Ive looked carefully  at Miss Cs hire agreement and at the paperwork she signed in 
connection with buying the car from VFS. And Im satisfied these documents  make  the 
position clear both in terms of the applicable excess mileage charges and that they would  
still be payable if Miss C bought the car at the end of the agreement.
Ref: DRN72624302I see during her complaint to this service Miss C has particularly focussed  on how the price  
she was offered to buy the car was determined and in particular whether it was based on the 
actual mileage shed  covered  or a lower  figure.
I also see VFS has confirmed the sale valuation was based on a mileage of 24,000, which  
was the figure Miss C had given it. I acknowledge Miss C says theres  no proof  that the 
valuation wasnt in fact based on a much  lower mileage, thereby resulting in her paying  a 
higher price  to buy the car. 
But as the complainant Miss C needs  to prove  the basis of her complaint on the balance of 
probabilities. VFS doesnt have to disprove it. And in the absence  of any other information 
supporting the suggestion  that VFS may have wrongly used a lower mileage figure to value 
the car, I dont have  enough information  to conclude thats  whats  most likely to have 
happened.
So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Miss Cs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint against  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.                     
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262430