K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) declined  his application for a credit  card after 
he had been pre-approved.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  Mr B was unhappy  that Virgin declined  his application, after its website implied 
he would  be accepted.
In my provisional decision,  I didnt think that Virgin had done anything  wrong  when it 
declined the application. One of the conditions of the application being approved  was that 
the information input  into the Virgin credit  card application matched the information from the 
third party website. Virgin sent me information  to show that there was a difference  in the 
addresses. So I couldnt say that Virgin unfairly  declined his application for the credit card.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision with the below main  point:
He didnt have any control over the address information held by the third party  or Virgin
Virgin didnt respond  to my provisional  decision so I assume it doesnt have anything  further 
to add.
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Ive thought carefully  about what  Mr B has said. Based on what  I have seen, there are 
differences in the address information  the third party hold for Mr B and what Virgin has. So 
as I said before, Im satisfied that Virgin declined the application in line with the checks  it 
said it would  make.
Mr B has said he doesnt think it is fair to hold him responsible  for the accuracy  of the 
information held by the third party  and Virgin. I cant comment  on the information held by the 
third party in this decision  but if Mr B thinks  the information they have about his address 
history is incorrect  then he should  contact them direct.
Mr B says Virgin used an address picker  where he had to select the correct address. 
The information Virgin held on Mr Bs address would have been whatever address Mr B 
selected from the options available. So I dont think I can hold Virgin responsible  for this. 
Based on this information Ive seen, the differences in address wasnt due to different 
formats  or the dates Mr B had lived at the address. 
Ref: DRN76813902I think it was clear before Mr B applied for the Virgin credit  card that the information he input 
into the full application would need to match the information from the third party  checker. 
And because it didnt, the application was declined.  Mr B says chose his address from the 
address finder option on the online application.  So I cant say that Virgin  are responsible  for 
the information Mr B selected himself. 
And so it follows that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.  Because  of this I wont  be 
asking Virgin  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76813903copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money plc (Virgin) declined  his application for a credit card after he had 
been pre-approved. 
background
In December 2018, Mr B went  to Virgins website to apply for a credit  card. He used its facility called a 
Card Checker to get an early indication  as to whether  or not he would be accepted by Virgin for the 
card. The Card Checker tool used a third party website  to carry out this preliminary check. Mr B says 
Virgins website confirmed that he would be accepted for a card as long as he applied on the same 
day, input the same information he did on the third party website  and that he passed identity and 
fraud checks.
Mr B went ahead and applied for the credit card and was later declined. He says he wouldnt have 
applied for the credit  if hed have thought he might have been  declined. 
To resolve this complaint,  Mr B says hed like Virgin to remove the credit search from his file.
Virgin says there was no guarantee  hed be approved  for the credit card  even if the Card Checker 
said hed be accepted. It says the Card Checker doesnt search  on a persons credit file, and a full 
credit search  isnt completed at this stage, so the checker isnt able to give a final decision on the 
lending. Virgin hasnt given Mr B an exact  reason  as to why it declined  his application  as this could 
disclose its internal  lending criteria  which it says is commercially sensitive. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong.  He thought  
Virgin had treated Mr B fairly  and declined  his application for credit in line with its internal lending 
criteria. Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said he thought hed been approved  for the 
card pending fraud and anti-money laundering checks. He said he had been misled into giving  his 
consent for Virgin to do a full credit  search.
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im not minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B has sent in copies of the screen shots he says he saw when  applying for the credit card  I have 
no reason to think these werent the screens  he saw at the time.  
The screen  shots  Mr B has shown form the Card Checker  website say:
100% - you will be accepted for this card at 19.9% APR subject to final checks
 
And then,  on Virgins website:
You have been pre-approved for a Virgin Money Credit Card. Thank you for completing an eligibility 
check for a Virgin Money Credit  Card.  Please remember for our decision to remain the same it is 
important you apply on the same day and provide  us with the same information  you entered  on the 
*third party* website, and of course  you pass all our usual  fraud and anti-money  laundering checks .
So Mr B was told about  the importance of providing  the same information and that some additional 
checks would be carried out in order  for the application to be successful. 
Ref: DRN76813904Based on the information Ive seen from Virgin, I can see that some of the information Mr B input into 
the Card Checker  tool was different to what he put on the full application  more  specifically,  there 
were inconsistencies with the addresses. The checks Virgin ran meant it declined his application. In 
the circumstances, I cant say that Virgin unfairly  declined  Mr Bs application. Or that Mr B was misled 
into completing the full application and in turn allowing Virgin to carry  out a full credit search. 
Virgin has a responsibility to ensure that the information it provides  to the credit reference  agencies is 
correct. And because  I dont think  Virgin has done anything wrong  in carrying out a credit check  Im not 
going to tell it to do what Mr B has asked and arrange for the credit  search  to be removed  from his file.
Mr B has confirmed  that his complaint doesnt relate to Virgins lending criteria, so I havent looked  
into this point  any further.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I now invite  Mr B and Virgin to give me any further  information  they want me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.
Ref: DRN7681390