K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs C under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Financial 
Services that was signed  in October 2018. She had some issues  with the drivers seat and a 
door within a month of the car being supplied to her so she returned it to the dealer for 
repairs. She then had issues with the rear exhaust  clamp,  thermostat  housing  unit, ignition 
coils, water pump and she paid for the car to be repaired by other garages. She then 
complained to Oodle  Financial Services  and it arranged  for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert. It then said that it was unable to accept liability for those issues  due to 
Mrs C having unauthorised repairs carried out  but as a gesture of goodwill it paid her £78 
towards the cost of the first repair. She wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service. And since then shes paid to have the head gasket replaced.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that so many 
faults within the first six months suggested  that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs C. He said that she shouldve returned the car to the dealer for repairs 
but he was persuaded that she should be allowed to reject the car and that Oodle Financial 
Services should refund two monthly payments to her for the restricted use of the car, refund 
the repair costs  and pay her £100  for distress  and inconvenience.
Mrs C accepted the investigators recommendations and Oodle Financial Services  initially 
said that it also accepted them and it paid £1,900.42  to Mrs C. But it then said that it hadnt  
had an opportunity to repair the car so it asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle Financial Services, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  
the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied 
to Mrs C was about five and a half years  old, had been driven  for about 56,000 miles  and 
had a price of £5,656. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means  that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
Mrs C returned the car to the dealer within a month of it being supplied  to her because  of 
issues with the drivers  seat and a door. Those issues  were repaired. But in December 2018 
she paid £117.60  for the rear exhaust  clamp to be replaced, in February  2019  she paid 
£189.60 for the thermostat housing unit to be replaced and £23.47 for new ignition coils and 
in March 2019 she paid £199.08 for a replacement water pump. And in April 2019  it was 
identified that the cars  head  gasket  needed to be replaced. She contacted  a citizens advice 
centre because she couldnt afford to pay for that work and she was advised  to complain to 
Oodle Financial Services.
Ref: DRN79101072When she did so, it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert later that 
month. The cars mileage  at that time was 63,615  so in about six months Mrs C had used 
the car to drive about  7,500 miles.  The experts  report concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that after inspection  
of the above vehicle we would confirm faults  as above reported  which  appear to 
relate to the cooling system and possibly further  faults as indicated by diagnostic  
testing. We note that the vehicle has undergone  previous repairs and it is possible 
that these may have  been deemed the responsibility of the selling dealer. However, 
in view of the elapsed time and mileage covered now since  sale there  was no 
engineering evidence to specifically attribute the current fault under investigation to 
the selling  dealer and if it is maintained that these faults were present earlier then 
documentary evidence  would be required  to provide this.
The head  gasket was replaced  in June 2019 at a cost of £2,394.89  but Mrs C had taken 
out a third party warranty earlier that year and it paid for the repair  other than £877.18 which  
was paid by Mrs C using  a payment arrangement over four months. The cars  mileage  at 
that time was 64,350 miles.
Mrs C has had issues with the drivers  seat,  a door, the rear exhaust clamp, the thermostat 
housing unit, the ignition coils, the water pump and the head gasket. I dont consider that its 
reasonable to expect  a car to have so many  issues within six months  of it being supplied.  So 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for 
Mrs C to expect  it to be when it was supplied to her. And for that reason I consider that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time.
The dealer  repaired  the issue with the drivers seat and a door. But I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances for Oodle Financial Services to allow  Mrs C to reject  
the car. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Oodle Financial Services  to 
now be given an opportunity to repair the car. So I find that it should arrange to collect the 
car from Mrs C and end her agreement. It has already paid £1,900.42 to Mrs C as a refund 
of two monthly instalments, reimbursement of her repair costs (with interest) and to pay her 
£100 for her distress and inconvenience.  So Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to make any further  payments to her.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And I order  Oodle 
Financial Services Limited  to end the hire purchase  agreement and arrange for the car to be 
collected from Mrs C  both at no cost to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7910107