K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about the way that Rathbone  Investment  Management Limited (trading as 
Rathbones) has managed  his account.
background
For many  years Rathbones had managed investments for Mr O. It had discretion to make 
investment decisions  for him. 
Mr O received shares from his employment as part of an employee share scheme.  At times, 
they made up over 40% of his shareholdings with Rathbones.
In 2013, Mr O was allocated some more  shares  from his employment. Rathbones recorded 
the initial value  of the shares as zero. When the shares were sold in 2014 and 2015, 
Rathbones told Mr Os accountant  that he had made a capital gain on the full value of the 
shares, rather than the difference  between  the initial cost and the sale price.  These  incorrect  
gains were offset against Mr Os losses for capital gains tax (CGT) purposes 
Mr O complains that Rathbones
Incorrectly recorded the value of the share allocation  from his employment as zero.  
Failed to diversify his investments by holding over 40% in one company.
As a result, Mr O says hes suffered financial losses:
Incorrect CGT information presented to HMRC.
Lost opportunity  to set off other genuine profits against losses. 
Fees and interest to be paid to HMRC  because of the late return
The additional accountants fees he paid to sort out the incorrect tax returns. 
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional decision, which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision, was to uphold  this complaint. 
Rathbones responded to say that it had provided  extensive information and explanations, so 
there was little it could  add.
Mr O responded to make a number of points, including:
From  August 2013  his account was mismanaged by Rathbones  it should therefore  
refund the fees he paid during this period.
There are additional  CGT losses. Mr O offset  some of the erroneous gains in the 
employee shares (because of Rathbones  errors) against  genuine  losses he had made 
elsewhere. He has therefore  lost the opportunity to offset genuine gains hed made  
elsewhere against the losses.
Ref: DRN77842852The employee shares were sold for less than they would  have been  had they been sold 
promptly by Rathbones to diversify his portfolio.  
Rathbones should provide detailed calculations showing how it worked  out the redress in 
this case and explain how and why it reached its conclusion.
Rathbones should provide the transaction history for the employee shares from August  
2013 until the account was closed.
 He has little faith that Rathbones will act reasonably and wishes  for Rathbones to meet 
the cost of having its figures checked.
 We should instruct Rathbones to cooperate with him if he has any queries or enquiries 
following its redress calculation.
He is worried that Rathbones will ignore  my decision about the undertaking to meet any 
potential CGT losses and asks that we intervene  if necessary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
decision as I did in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
For the sake of completeness, I will address the points that Mr O has made.
fees
I understand Mr Os point here. But his portfolio was being actively  managed by Rathbones 
during the period in question and he hasnt said that he is dissatisfied with the way the 
portfolio was managed overall  only that Rathbones didnt act reasonably in respect of the 
part that was made  up of employee shares. Overall I dont consider that Rathbones should 
refund the fees it charged over the period in question  and I have made an award for 
trouble and upset  which  includes an element for the disappointment caused by the poor 
service.
CGT
My finding  is that it wasnt clear  what loss Mr O will suffer  as a result  of the incorrect tax 
return. But Rathbones should  meet a proportion  of any losses  that Mr O could show that 
resulted from the incorrect tax return once that issue is resolved. I consider the point that Mr 
O makes about the lost opportunity to offset  losses against other gains is covered by my 
provisional decision. 
It is for Mr O to show  that he has suffered a financial loss overall in relation to his capital 
gains tax returns during  the tax years that cover the time between  August 2013 and the time 
his account was closed. He has told us that he is appealing to amend his return  to HMRC.  If 
he believes  that he has lost the opportunity to offset other genuine gains  because  of the 
mistake it is reasonable  to expect that point  to be included as part of the appeal  to HMRC.
As things  stand, it isnt sufficiently clear that Mr O has suffered a financial loss. We have 
asked for information  to show what the loss is but he hasnt provided it. I accept that the tax 
Ref: DRN77842853position is not a straightforward  matter to resolve. And it doesnt follow that there is no 
financial loss. 
Bearing mind my findings that Rathbones is partly responsible for the incorrect tax return, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that, if it transpires there is a financial  loss as a result of the 
incorrect tax return over the period in question, that it shouldnt  fairly compensate  Mr O for its 
mistakes. Particularly as it was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Rathbones  
mistakes that it could lead to an incorrect tax return  and that it should reasonably know  
that it would  be a difficult exercise  to unwind the tax return  and correct those mistakes.
I accept that the positon as it stands is not ideal. It wouldnt be fair for me to say that Mr O 
should not be compensated if there is a loss relating to the tax return. But it also wouldnt be 
fair for me to say that Rathbones should compensate Mr O when I do not have sufficient 
evidence that there  is a financial  loss relating to this matter.
After very careful consideration, I still consider  the redress  set out in my provisional decision 
in respect of this point  is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this matter. If after exhausting 
the appeals process  with HMRC Mr O can show that he has suffered  a financial loss in 
relation to CGT directly because of the tax return made based on the incorrect  book costs 
provided by Rathbones. I appreciate Mr Os apprehension that Rathbones will not act in line 
with my decision. But if Mr O accepts my decision Rathbones will be bound  to do what my 
decision says. If it doesnt do so, ultimately Mr O can enforce my decision in court.  I note that 
there are various rules and principles set by the FCA, which should mean that isnt 
necessary.
If Mr O can show that he has lost the opportunity to offset the losses  against  other  gains as 
part of his tax return and that results  in a financial loss overall compared with the position  he 
is in now, then Rathbones should give an undertaking to meet a third of those losses.
employee shares
Mr O says that if Rathbones had acted reasonably  and took steps to sell the employee  
shares quickly, he would have achieved a higher selling price  than Rathbones  eventually  
did. 
Again, I consider  this point is covered by my provisional decision. The overriding principle of 
the decision was that Mr O should be put in the position he would have been in had 
Rathbones taken  steps to diversify his portfolio by selling the employee shares. So that 
would take account of any difference  is the price of those  shares  between  when they ought  
reasonably to have  been  sold and when they actually were sold.
other points  
I think its reasonable for Rathbones to:
Give Mr O a timescale of how long it will take to calculate the redress  and a copy of the 
employee share transaction history  from August  2013 until the account  was closed, 
within 14 days of being told that he has accepted the decision.
Give Mr O a breakdown of the calculation within the timescale  given by Rathbones.
Answer any reasonable questions that Mr O has in relation to the breakdown.
Ref: DRN77842854Co-operate with Mr O and/or his representatives  in putting in place an undertaking in 
respect of the CGT loss that is in line with my decision.
But it isnt for me for me to set out exactly how the breakdown  should  be set out other than 
to say that Rathbones should make sure it is as easy to understand as possible  although 
the nature  of this complaint means  that there  is likely to be an unavoidable  level of 
complexity to any breakdown. 
It is for Mr O to decide  if he wishes to have  the calculations checked by a third party. But I 
would expect Rathbones to take care to make  sure that any calculation  is done correctly and 
in line with my decision. So I dont consider it is necessary for me to say that Rathbones 
should meet  the cost of having the figures checked.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the undertaking is a matter  for Mr O and Rathbones. It is 
not something that we will get involved in if there is a dispute about  it in the future. Mr O 
should consider  this when  deciding whether to accept my decision or not. If he rejects my 
decision he will be free to take other action if he wishes to do so. But if he accepts it 
Rathbones will be bound to do what my decision says.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr O 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
a. compensation for lack of diversification
I think Mr O would have invested differently had there been adequate diversification. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but I am satisfied that what  I have  set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Os circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. 
So, to compensate Mr O fairly,  Rathbones must:
1.Assume that the employee shares were invested  no more than 10% of Mr Os portfolio 
since August 2013. I have  selected this date because  as I mentioned earlier,  the 
previous fund manager was able to sell the employee shares fairly quickly  and in my 
view this issue was more prominent only around this time when the new fund manager  
took over.  
2.Compare the performance of the employee shares that were in excess of this 10% with 
that of FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return Index from August 2013  to the 
date of transfer. Any dividend and any other payments received by Mr O from the 
employee shares relating to this excess should  be included in comparing the 
performance. If the calculation shows a loss, pay this amount to Mr O.
3.Rathbones should also pay interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from the date of 
transfer to the date of settlement. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN778428554.Pay Mr O £500 for the trouble and upset  hes experienced because Rathbones failed to 
properly diversify Mr Os portfolio - and in failing to find out the book cost of his employee 
shares.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
I consider that the portfolio would be suitably diversified when the employee  shares  
made up no more than 10% of the total portfolio. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Os 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since 
the transfer.  
b. compensation for the CGT
Fair compensation in this regard would be for Rathbones to bear a third of any financial 
losses that arise from the amount Mr O incorrectly paid due to the error  in the valuation and 
which he is unable to recover  from HMRC.
At this point Mr O hasnt been able to resolve the tax issues.  Therefore I consider it 
reasonable that if Mr O can show at a later date that he has suffered a financial  loss directly 
because of the tax return  made based  on the incorrect book costs provided  by Rathbones, 
then Rathbones  should meet a third of those losses. To that effect Rathbone  should  provide 
an undertaking to Mr O (in accordance  with what I set out in my provisional  decision section 
below) to compensate him.
Rathbones should provide a draft of the undertaking to Mr O for consideration and 
agreement  within  reasonable  timescale.  Once finalised, the undertaking would form a 
contract between  Rathbones and Mr O and the ombudsman  service will not be privy 
to that contract.  Mr O should also note that the ombudsman service will not be in a 
position to resolve  any future  disputes  that may arise from Rathbones failure to 
comply with the undertaking.  Mr O may have to initiate legal proceedings to enforce 
the undertaking if need be.
Ref: DRN77842856my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Rathbone 
Investment Management Limited pays the balance.
determination and award : I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My provisional  decision is that Rathbone Investment 
Management Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the 
maximum of £150,000 (including  distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  costs) plus 
any interest set out above.
For avoidance of doubt the maximum amount of £150,000 include the loss calculated as in 
(a)(2) above plus any loss arising  from (b). As what is payable under  (b) is as yet not known, 
I consider it fair that the maximum  amount  is first utilised to compensate  Mr O for the loss 
suffered under (a) and then for the loss under  (b).
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Rathbone  Investment  Management Limited  pays  Mr O the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
copy
Ref: DRN77842857complaint
Mr O complains about the way that Rathbone  Investment  Management Limited trading as Rathbones 
has managed his account.
background
For many years Rathbones  has managed investments for Mr O. It had discretion to make investment 
decisions for him. 
Mr O received shares from his employment as part of an employee share  scheme. They  made up 
over 40% of his share holdings  with Rathbones.
In 2013, Mr O was allocated some more shares from his employment. Rathbones recorded the initial 
value of the shares as zero. When the shares were sold in 2014 and 2015,  Rathbones told Mr Os 
accountant that he had made a capital gain on the full value of the shares, rather than the difference  
between the initial cost and the sale price. These incorrect  gains were offset against Mr Os losses  for 
capital gains tax (CGT) purposes  
Mr O complains that Rathbones
Incorrectly recorded the value of the share allocation  from his employment  as zero.  
Failed to diversify his investments by holding  over 40% in one company.
As a result, Mr O says hes suffered financial  losses:
Incorrect capital gains tax information presented  to HMRC.
Lost opportunity to set off other genuine profits against losses. 
Fees  and interest to be paid to HMRC because  of the late return
The additional accountants fees he paid to sort out the incorrect tax returns. 
Rathbones said that it relied on clients or the transferring  firm to tell it what the book cost was. It 
hadnt received this information in relation to Mr Os 2013 employment allocation. So when  it passed 
on information for tax purposes to Mr Os accountant  in 2014 and 2015 it showed large gains from the 
sale of those  shares.  Rathbones said the gains were  clearly suspect  and should have been picked 
up by Mr Os accountant.
Rathbones said that Mr O and his family  hold a number  of accounts with it. It said it all of the accounts 
were managed as one. So it looked  at the overall  position against all of the accounts, rather  than 
Mr Os in isolation.  Rathbones said, in any event, Mr Os employment share holding had been 
discussed with Mr O and the size of the holding brought to his attention  in meetings and by way of 
regular valuation statements.
Our investigator said that although Rathbones had obtained  the book costs in the past, this was 
beyond what it would usually  do. She said that Rathbones responsibility  was to manage his account 
in line with the mandate. While the lack of a book cost in 2013 should have alerted  Rathbones  to an 
issue  Mr Os tax return was his accountants  responsibility. 
On review the investigator thought the complaint about diversification should be upheld.  She said that 
although there wasnt any definition of what  medium risk meant, in view of  the investments held by 
Mr O and his occupation, it wasnt unreasonable  to view medium risk as suitable in this context.
Ref: DRN77842858However, the investigator didnt think that holding  such a large percentage in one company gave Mr O 
a sufficiently diverse portfolio. Although Rathbones wasnt responsible for the decision to buy those  
shares, it had a duty to manage the portfolio  by maintaining the target level of risk. 
The investigator said that Rathbones should put Mr O in the positon he would have been in had he 
not been  given unsuitable advice. She said that it should do that by paying  Mr O the difference  
between the actual value  of his investment and what it would have been had it been invested in a 
benchmark fund.
Mr O didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points,  including:
Rathbones had previously checked the book  cost of each tranche of shares  each time they were  
received  there is a precedent  for this between 2003 and 2013. This stopped  only when  another 
member of staff took over the management of his account.
To understand the potential CGT each tranche of shares  had to have its own book cost.
Rathbones valued  the shares at zero. That meant it understood the CGT position  incorrectly  
from zero to the sale price. In fact, all tranches of the shares  were sold for less than the purchase 
price.
Rathbones amalgamated all of the shares across  a number of tranches and gave them a book 
cost of zero.  It is now not possible to retrieve the original book cost because of Rathbones 
actions.
Rathbones responded  to make a number of points, including:
In 2012, Rathbones appointed a new investment manager for Mr O. He made significant efforts  
to arrange a meeting with Mr O to discuss his requirements  but this took over a year to arrange 
because Mr O didnt respond.
In June 2014, Rathbones wrote to Mr O to say that his employee share holding made  up a 
significant percentage of his portfolio   but it hadnt taken any steps to reduce  the holding 
because Mr O was comfortable with the size of the holding across all of his familys  portfolios. 
Mr O didnt contact  Rathbones to disagree  with this.
Mr O is an experienced investor who clearly understood he had a large  holding in the employee  
shares and the risk this presented.
Although Rathbones had discretion to manage Mr Os portfolio, Mr O had asked Rathbones  to 
bear in mind the CGT position. Rathbones spoke to Mr Os accountant to find out about  gains 
and losses and the fact that [the employee  share costs]  was a complicated issue was 
discussed
In January 2016, Rathbones sent Mr O another letter setting out that he held a large percentage 
of his portfolio in employee shares 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
book costs
Mr Os previous investment  manager at Rathbones recorded  the book  cost of the employee  shares. It 
was reasonable for Mr O to understand that this would  continue under the new fund manager. And I 
cant see that Rathbones told Mr O that it would no longer provide this service.
Ref: DRN77842859In any event, Rathbones had discretion to manage Mr Os fund. Part of that was considering Mr Os 
overall CGT position. It couldnt do that if it didnt know what the book cost of the employee  shares  
was. Bearing in mind  it was the expert here, it ought reasonably to have questioned a zero book cost 
in view of the implications of that.
I dont consider that Rathbones has acted fairly or reasonably by not recording the book cost of the 
employee shares.
Where a business has made a mistake, we try and put the affected  party back in the position  they 
would have been in had the mistake not occurred.
Mr O says that as a result of the error the employee  shares were recorded as a gain, when  in fact 
they were sold for a loss. His CGT position  is therefore incorrect  and he has had to pay accountants  
to sort things out.
I accept that Rathbones made  an error in not recording the book  cost of the employee  shares and 
passing on incorrect  information.  I also accept that it wasnt  able to advise Mr O properly if it didnt  
know this information  it was under clear instructions  to consider Mr Os CGT  position. But 
Rathbones wasnt responsible for Mr Os tax return.  While it gave incorrect figures  to Mr Os 
accountants, it was for the accountants, on behalf of Mr O to assess  that information and submit  the 
return. So I dont think it would be fair for Rathbones  to pay for the full amount of any loss relating  to 
the tax return.  But I consider that its action or inaction has contributed  to the situation.  While other 
parties might share some  responsibility for what happened, Rathbones is responsible  in part. So while 
it isnt clear what if any loss Mr O will suffer  as a result of the incorrect tax return, if it turns  out that he 
has suffered  a loss then Rathbones should provide an undertaking  to pay a third of that loss to reflect 
its involvement. 
Mr O has been put to some  trouble and upset because Rathbones didnt do what  he reasonably 
expected it to do. He has had the worry that Rathbones was managing  a sizeable investment for him 
without properly understanding his CGT positon as he asked it to do. And it has contributed to the 
trouble hes had in trying  to resolve this matter.   
Mr O also says that Rathbones has amalgamated all of the different  tranches of employee shares  
making it impossible  to find out the book cost for individual tranches of the shares. 
Rathbones says that once the employee  shares are received it is amalgamated into one holding.  But 
it is able to review the transaction history and identify each tranche of shares. It should pass  this 
information to Mr O if it hasnt already. This would seem  to resolve this issue  but either side should  
let me know if it doesnt.
diversification
Rathbones had discretion  to manage Mr Os portfolio  of shares for him.
The employee  shares made up a significant  portion of Mr Os portfolio with Rathbones. It says that it 
was accepted that Mr O and his familys investments  would be viewed as a whole  and looking  at the 
investments held across all of those portfolios, the employee shares  represented  a reasonable 
proportion of the portfolios.
I dont consider the evidence we have supports this. Mr Os agreement  with Rathbones  was between 
him and Rathbones alone  I cant see there was any formal agreement that all of the portfolios  would 
be managed  as one. And if it were the case that this had been agreed, its not clear why Rathbones  
wrote to Mr O in 2014 and 2016 to warn  him about the size of his holding in the employee shares  if it 
was looking at the familys  holdings as a whole.  And I dont consider those  letters set out that 
Rathbones was looking at Mr Os familys holdings  overall. The letters merely  refer to Mr Os overall 
portfolio.
Ref: DRN778428510In the circumstances I consider it reasonable for Mr O to believe that his portfolio  was considered on 
its own Im  satisfied that Rathbones ought reasonably  to have considered  Mr Os portfolio alone, 
rather than across all of his familys portfolios. I consider it was reasonable for Mr O to believe that 
this is what  was happening.  And if Rathbones  had a different understanding  then there is more it 
ought reasonably to have done to set out its understanding, bearing  in mind its obligation to 
communicate in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way.
I can see that Rathbones discussed the employee  shareholding with Mr O on a number of occasions:
In October  2012,  Rathbones note of a phone call with Mr O says,  I spoke with [Mr O] to 
discuss, a strategy for selling down his [employee] shareholding. We agreed that we should sell 
down the holding in 50,000, share increments. 
In September 2013, Rathbones note of a phone call with Mr O says,  [Rathbones] asked if the 
sale price targets on [the employee shares] at £3.20 still stood. The client said that this was 
somewhat arbitrary  and he would be guided  by us. [Rathbones] felt that now was not necessarily  
a good time to sell in light of the impending rights  issue and capital rates.  This will be discussed at 
the impending  meeting .
In October  2013,  Rathbones note of a phone call with Mr O says  [Mr O] wanted to know what  
he should  do with [the employee shares] given his large  holding and wondered if he should  be 
subscribing. [Rathbones] felt that from a portfolio  point of view he ought  to be reducing the holding 
and should sell the nil paids in the market. [Mr O] has a loss of £150,000  arising  from an 
investment property trust which went bust. Therefore the gain of £55,000 arising  from the sale of 
the nil paid rights will be absorbed in the loss.
In November 2014,  Rathbones  record  of a meeting with Mr O states,  [Mr O] has very little 
understanding or knowledge of the stocks  and shares and leaves this entirely  to Rathbones 
discretion. There  is a block on buying banking  shares for the portfolio and this remains very 
important given the 80% plus holding  in [the employee shares]. It is hoped that this holding can be 
reduced over the near term and therefore the risk can be diversified.  
Mr O says that his instructions to the previous fund manager at Rathbones were always to diversify 
into a balanced fund as he saw fit. The annual statements for Mr Os account support  this  up until 
2011 there was no significant holding  in the employee shares showing on the statements. But from 
2012 until 2015, they made up around 50% or more  of Mr Os total holdings. 
Rathbones records  show that the employee shares were  not transferred to Mr Os account but to 
another family members account from 2003 until 2010. Although all of the shares  were  sold soon 
after they were received  usually within days. This adds some  weight to Rathbones position that it 
looked at Mr O and his familys  portfolios as a whole.  But it also goes against its argument that the 
percentage of the shares was acceptable across  the portfolio  as a whole. If that were the case, its not 
clear why it sold the employee shares so quickly up until 2010.
After that point the employee shares were transferred to Mr O directly  and sold much more slowly and 
in tranches. Rathbones decisions appear to have been made taking into account its incorrect 
understanding of the CGT position, based on the employee shares having a zero book cost.  Ive 
already found that it ought to have done more to understand the correct  position. If it had done so, it 
would have known that the gain from the sale of the employee  shares would be significantly lower  
than it understood. Bearing in mind  that it had agreed with Mr O to take into account the CGT position 
when selling the shares, the incorrect understanding of the book cost must have influenced 
Rathbones decisions about when to sell the shares.  
In any event, Rathbones was managing the account for Mr O. He made  it clear  that he was not an 
expert in this field and was relying on Rathbones to manage his portfolio  for him. I dont consider  that 
Rathbones has set out why it considered  that the risk of holding such a large percentage  of his 
Ref: DRN778428511portfolio in the employee shares was the right decision   it suggests  that by making Mr O aware  of the 
position was enough  to satisfy its responsibility.  But I dont  agree. 
In the meeting Mr O had with Rathbones  he asks for communication by email.  In view of that Its not 
clear that Mr O actually saw the June  2014  letter where Rathbones says that it hasnt taken any 
action to reduce the employee  shares holding   and Rathbones ought to have known that. And Mr O 
had the employee shares in his portfolio for some time by this point. The letter  goes against the 
discussions Mr O had with Rathbones  and I dont consider  that it accurately  sets out what  was 
agreed between Mr O and Rathbones, based on its own records of those conversations.  I dont 
consider that letter is enough for Rathbones to shift responsibility for managing  the portfolio and the 
employee shares on to Mr O.
As the manager of Mr Os portfolio with the discretion to manage it for him it was for Rathbones to 
make decisions about the portfolio. I note the records of the discussions with Mr O  but I consider 
that the overall impression was that Mr O was leaving  decisions  about the portfolio, including the 
employee shares up to Rathbones, providing  that it was mindful of his overall position.  And that is the 
agreement Mr O had with Rathbones  from the start. I cant see that the steps Rathbones  took were 
reasonable in the circumstances. In view of the risk to Mr O it ought to have diversified his portfolio.   
After very careful consideration, I consider that Rathbones ought to have taken  steps to sell the 
employee shares and diversify Mr Os portfolio sooner than it did. So Rathbones should put Mr O in 
the position he would  have been in had it taken steps to diversify his portfolio. I will explain below how 
his should be done
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr O as close 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice.
a. compensation  for lack of diversification
I think  Mr O would have invested differently had there been  adequate  diversification. It is not possible 
to say precisely what he would  have  done, but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below  is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Os circumstances  and objectives  when  he invested. 
So, to compensate Mr O fairly, Rathbones must:
5.Assume that the employee shares were invested no more than 10% of Mr Os portfolio  since 
August 2013. I have  selected this date because as I mentioned earlier, the previous fund 
manager was able to sell the employee shares  fairly  quickly and in my view this issue was more  
prominent only around this time when the new fund manager took over.   
6.Compare the performance  of the employee  shares that were in excess of this 10% with that of 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index from August 2013  to the date of transfer. 
Any dividend  and any other payments received by Mr O from the employee shares  relating to this 
excess should be included  in comparing the performance. If the calculation shows a loss, pay this 
amount to Mr O.
7.Rathbones should  also pay interest at 8% simple per year on any loss from the date of transfer to 
the date of settlement.  Income  tax may be payable  on any interest awarded.
8.Pay Mr O £500 for the trouble and upset  hes experienced  because Rathbones failed to properly 
diversify Mr Os portfolio  - and in failing to find out the book cost of his employee shares.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ref: DRN778428512Mr O wanted capital  growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
I consider that the portfolio would be suitably diversified when the employee shares made  up no 
more than 10% of the total portfolio. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market  Income total return  index)  is a mix of diversified  indices representing different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Os circumstances  
and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  since the 
transfer.  
b. compensation for the CGT
As I said earlier, a fair compensation in this regard  would be for Rathbones  to bear a third of any 
financial losses that arise  from the amount Mr O incorrectly paid due to the error  in the valuation  and 
which he is unable to recover from HMRC.
At this point Mr O hasnt been able to resolve the tax issues. Therefore I consider it reasonable that if 
Mr O can show at a later date that he has suffered  a financial loss directly because of the tax return 
made based on the incorrect  book costs provided  by Rathbones, then Rathbones  should  meet  a third 
of those losses. To that effect Rathbone should provide an undertaking  to Mr O (in accordance with 
what I set out in my provisional  decision section below)  to compensate  him.
Rathbones should provide  a draft of the undertaking to Mr O for consideration and agreement  
within  reasonable  timescale.  Once finalised, the undertaking would form a contract  between  
Rathbones and Mr O and the ombudsman service will not be privy to that contract.  Mr O 
should also note that the ombudsman service will not be in a position to resolve  any future 
disputes that may arise  from Rathbones  failure to comply with the undertaking.  Mr O may 
have to initiate legal proceedings to enforce  the undertaking  if need be.
Ref: DRN778428513my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Rathbone  Investment 
Management Limited  pays  the balance.
determination and award  : I uphold the complaint.  I consider  that fair compensation should  be 
calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Rathbone  Investment Management 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  costs) plus any interest set out above.
For avoidance of doubt the maximum amount of £150,000 include the loss calculated as in (a)(2)  
above plus any loss arising from (b). As what is payable  under (b) is as yet not known, I consider it 
fair that the maximum amount is first utilised  to compensate Mr O for the loss suffered under (a) and 
then for the loss under  (b).
recommendation:  If the amount  produced  by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that Rathbone Investment Management Limited pays Mr O the balance plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784285