K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax, but at the time as Leeds  
Permanent Building Society) mis-sold  them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs M bought PPI to protect  their mortgage repayments. They took it out 
around six months after their mortgage started. Neither party  can confirm how or where the 
policy was sold. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name  and gave him protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  so the complaint was
passed to me. Mr and Mrs M had also raised some  concerns about  how Halifax dealt  with 
their complaint, they have subsequently confirmed they dont wish for these to be considered  
further. So this decision looks only at the sale of the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely to have  happened given the available  evidence and what 
we know about  how the bank sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional, and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say they were unaware they had it. They remember going 
to one of the banks  branches about  this time to discuss endowments,  but not PPI. Halifax 
no longer has any of the paperwork from the sale but thats  not surprising or unreasonable  
given how long ago the sale was. Ive thought  carefully about Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  but 
I also have to take into account  how long ago this sale was and how that might affect what  
they recall. Also, the PPI was sold after the mortgage had started which  suggests  to me they 
would have known  it was a separate product that wasnt mandatory to get a mortgage.
Overall, with stronger evidence I cant fairly conclude Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mr and Mrs M didnt agree to take it out for Mr M. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M and I think it seems to have been right for him based
on what Ive seen. Mr M was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half pay if he 
was sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 12 
months for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave him redundancy protection  for up to 
12 months. I know  Mr M has told us his employer offered a controlled redundancy scheme, 
but equally, as he has agreed, this didnt mean  there was a guarantee he wouldnt be made 
redundant. Mr and Mrs M had some  savings but the PPI would have allowed them  to use 
these for other living costs  whilst  Mr M wasnt  working,  or to keep them  intact for their future  
needs. Mr and Mrs M had borrowed quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their 
home. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with their mortgage repayments 
Ref: DRN72655362could have been, I think the PPI would have been  useful  for them  if Mr M was sick, had an 
accident or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs M all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont  know what Mr and Mrs M were  
told about the main  exclusions and limitations  of the policy. However, Mr M doesnt  appear 
to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting 
people with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont  think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs M have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
,
Ref: DRN7265536