K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint against Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) is that it 
recorded a CIFAS marker against  him.
background
In November 2015, Mr L opened  a credit account  with Shop Direct, and placed three orders  
for goods.
After this he says he started university  and moved address a number  of times, forgetting 
about the debt.  He says he then fell into severe  financial difficulties and entered  into a Debt 
Arrangement Scheme  (DAS),  forgetting  to include his debt to Shop Direct. So no payments 
were made to the account.
As a result, Shop Direct  defaulted Mr Ls account,  and registered  a CIFAS marker against  
him in June 2016.
When Mr L found out about the CIFAS marker, he contacted Shop Direct and asked it to 
remove it. It declined to do so, saying it believed hed applied  for an account  fraudulently,  
never intending to pay for the goods.  
Shop Direct says Mr L didnt update him on his changes  of address, and believed hed never 
intended to pay for the goods from when  he opened the account. It didnt understand why he 
hadnt included  this debt in his DAS. So it recorded a CIFAS marker  against Mr Ls name.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service, explaining  that the way his life had been with 
starting university; leaving home; changing addresses;  and finding  himself in severe financial 
difficulties, hed simply forgotten about  the Shop  Direct debt. And that it was never his initial 
intention to not pay for the goods. 
He was now paying back his Shop Direct debt, and felt the CIFAS marking,  and its serious 
consequences for him, wasnt fair. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters and concluded  that Shop Direct hadnt  satisfied the four 
pillars criteria for applying a CIFAS marker,  and therefore it should be removed,  and £75 
compensation paid to Mr L for his upset  and inconvenience.
Shop Direct still didnt  agree.  It didnt believe Mr L had forgotten about  the debt, as hed 
been reminded of it before  entering into the DAS yet still didnt include it there. It felt strongly 
it had met the four pillars  requirement for registering the CIFAS marker.
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaints come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see the merits of the arguments of both sides,  and accept the matter 
isnt clear-cut. While  Im not convinced Mr L was as unaware as he maintains he was about 
Ref: DRN79669482the debt with Shop Direct, I dont think opening  the account was a premeditated fraudulent 
act.
Our Investigator  helpfully  explained the four pillars that required  to be met by Shop Direct 
in adding the CIFAS  marker:
CIFAS is a fraud prevention service.  Members of CIFAS can record and share
information about their customers  to help detect, deter and prevent fraud.
To use the database,  a CIFAS member must operate within  the terms of the National
Fraud Database Handbook   a guide  that sets out what the requirements are in order 
to add a CIFAS marker.
Principle 4 says that Cases filed to the National Fraud Database must  be supported 
by evidence and meet the four pillars  of the Standard of Proof.  The Standard of 
Proof is:-
1. That there  are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has
been committed or attempted;
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member
could confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police;
3. The conduct  of the Subject must meet the criteria of one of the Case Types;
4. In order to file the member must have rejected, withdrawn or terminated  a
Product on the basis of Fraud unless the member has an obligation  to provide
the Product or the Subject has already received  the full benefit  of the Product.
In order for me to conclude that SDFCL has acted fairly and reasonably  by adding a
CIFAS marker,  I have  to be satisfied, from the evidence Ive received,  that it has met 
all four pillars of the standard  of proof.
So, on balance, I think its unfair for Mr L to have the CIFAS marker against him. Im not 
satisfied the four pillars have been  met  in particular  the first one. Im not saying it might  not 
have been a close call, but overall Im just not convinced that theres the evidence  to suggest 
Mr L did this knowingly and deliberately. I believe he did have serious financial problems, 
which he found difficult to manage.  And Id imagine that the Shop Direct account  wasnt  the 
largest of his liabilities. So, even if he did get a reminder of the account somewhere along 
the line, I can still see why it might have slipped through  the net, as it were,  among 
everything else that he owed. And I dont think this is the same thing as Mr L actively 
deciding from the outset that he was going to open  an account and never pay for it  which  
is what the first pillar requires to be proven  on reasonable grounds.
A CIFAS  marker has serious consequences, and I dont think these  are proportionate to the 
mistakes Mr L made here. I think its right that the default remains, as its an accurate 
reflection that Mr L failed  to manage  his debt. And that itself has consequences that Mr L will 
have to deal with. Mr Ls also repaying  the debt, which  I think it entirely right.
On that basis, Im going to uphold the complaint.  
I appreciate Shop Direct  wont  agree. Its articulated  itself strongly and clearly. Even stating 
that CIFAS itself thinks the marker  is fair and accurate. But Im afraid Im still not persuaded. 
CIFAS, in giving this advice, dont know the full facts,  and although I can be guided  by its 
view, Im not bound  by it. 
Ref: DRN79669483I hope Ive explained why I think my decision is fair to both parties. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking Shop Direct 
Financial Company Limited  to remove the CIFAS marker it placed against Mr Ls name, and 
to pay him £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7966948