K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt do enough to help her pay the balance 
outstanding on her credit card.
background
Miss S said she went into her local branch of HSBC  several times  in 2014 to ask for help in 
paying off her credit card. But she was told the bank couldnt  help her. She missed some 
payments and then came  into some money  she wasnt  expecting.  So she was able to pay 
the balance off in full. She thinks HSBC shouldve offered  her a personal loan to help her 
pay this off. If itd done that she wouldnt have ended up with a default on her credit record.
The bank said it didnt  have any record  of Miss S contacting it in 2014 to discuss the problem 
with her credit card. But it sent us a recording of a phone call in January 2015  when HSBC 
Collections Department phoned Miss S to discus the outstanding arrears on her account. 
The adjudicator didnt think HSBC had done anything  wrong.  She could see that Miss S 
missed a number of payments in 2014  and the majority  of payments she did make were  
below the minimum required by the bank.  She could  also see HSBC  sent Miss S a default 
notice on 30 September  2014 warning her of the implications of not making the required 
payment. Miss S didnt make any payments in 2015  until September 2015.  
Miss S disagreed with her opinion  and thought her complaint had been misunderstood.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss S complains  that HSBC shouldve offered her a loan when she told it about her 
financial difficulties in 2014. The bank doesnt  have  any record of her visits to its local branch 
during this time so I cant make any findings  about those visits or what  was said at the time.  
But as the adjudicator said, banks  arent  under any obligation to give its customers personal 
loans. However they are under an obligation to try and help their customers if theyre having 
financial difficulties.
HSBC has told us that its local branch staff arent able to put any arrangements in place 
when a customer is having difficulties making  payments. It said that Miss S wouldve been 
referred to the Collections  Team  which  can only be contacted by phone. But it doesnt  seem 
that she made any phone  contact with the bank  during this time.
HSBC sent Miss S a default  notice in September 2014. The bank had a conversation with 
Miss S in January 2015 about the arrears on her account. Miss S said she had made a 
recent payment  and was going  to make another payment in two weeks  time. She said she 
was waiting for some money to come  in. The operator offered to set up a payment for her 
but she said she would do it herself.  There was a discussion about the arrears and she said 
she would  clear them after the next payment. But she didnt make  any further payments until 
September 2015. 
Ref: DRN79266182Miss S thinks the bank  shouldve given her a personal loan so she could pay off her credit  
card. Theres no record of her visit to her local branch to ask for help and theres  no record 
of her telephoning her bank for help during 2014.  
She had an opportunity to ask for help at the beginning of January 2015 when the banks 
collections department  phoned her. But she didnt take that opportunity. Listening to her 
telephone conversation with HSBC I think the bank wouldve been left with the impression 
that she was able clear  the arrears and didnt  need any help.
When a customer explains to a bank that he or she is in financial difficulties, we expect the 
bank to listen to what the customer is saying and then to deal with that customer positively 
and sympathetically. But the customer has a responsibility to explain to the bank  the 
difficulties they are facing  so that the bank has an opportunity to respond appropriately. I 
dont have sufficient  evidence to find that Miss S did this in 2014. And I think HSBC  gave her 
an opportunity to do so when it phoned her in January 2015. During that phone call she 
didnt explain that she had asked the bank for help on several previous occasions. And she 
didnt ask it for help.  So I dont  think  HSBC  couldve done more.
HSBC issued a default notice and subsequently registered the default in line with its terms 
and conditions. I know that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision but I cant  find it 
was wrong to do that. So I cant ask it to remove the default from her credit  record. 
 
Im sorry  if Miss S thinks her complaint has been  misunderstood. But for the reasons Ive 
given I dont think the bank has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926618