K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) added a Tech  pack to his bank account  
without his consent.
background
Mr P held an Additions Plus packaged  bank account. His account was changed to a fee-free 
bank account  but with Tech and Travel packs added in January 2017.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr P disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help decide  what to do about Mr Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think Barclays did anything  wrong  
when it changed  Mr Ps account  to a fee-free account with Tech and Travel  packs  added. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision.
I should start by saying  that Barclays didnt sell Mr P a further packaged account in January 
2017. It chose  to withdraw the Additions Plus account at this stage. And Barclays was 
entitled to do this because choosing what products it wants  to offer is a legitimate exercise  of 
its commercial  judgement. So I cant say that Barclays  was wrong to have withdrawn the 
Additions Plus account or that it had to continue providing it to Mr P.
When Barclays withdrew the Additions  Plus account, it moved all of its customers  that had 
this account on to a fee-free  account with Tech and Travel Packs added.  This was because 
the benefits on the Tech and Travel Packs most  closely matched the ones that were on the 
Additions Plus account. As this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account, Barclays didnt 
need to get Mr Ps agreement before making  this change. What  Barclays  did have to do was 
to notify Mr P about the upcoming changes to his account.
Barclays says that in September 2016,  it wrote to Mr P to say that the Additions  Plus 
account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Mr P would be 
moved to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech and Travel Packs  for £18 per month. Barclays 
says it sent a follow up letter to Mr P in January 2017 to confirm  that his account had 
changed.
Barclays has provided a copy of the letters  it sent to Mr P, and the letters have Mr Ps 
correct (current) address  on them. So I think the two letters that Barclays has provided  were 
likely to have been sent to Mr P. 
Turning to the contents of the letters, they explained  that Mr Ps account will be changed  
from a packaged  bank account  to a fee-free account with Tech  and Travel Packs added. It 
explained the differences in cover  on the insurance benefits between  the existing  Additions  
Plus account  and the Tech and Travel Packs. It also explained that the monthly fee will 
Ref: DRN75947462increase to £18 a month. The letters went on to explain the options available to Mr P 
including doing  nothing if he was happy  with the changes and what  he should do if he wasnt 
happy with the changes  being made  to the account.
Therefore I think Barclays took reasonable steps  to tell Mr P about the changes that were  
due to take place on his account and made it clear to Mr P what  his options were,  if he 
wasnt happy with the changes. And I think Barclays gave him enough time to take action 
before the changes  were due to take place. 
Mr P has questioned why Barclays  didnt phone  or email him. But I havent seen anything to 
say that Mr P had asked  Barclays to only contact him by those  methods. And although I 
accept that mail can sometimes go missing in the post, most mail that is correctly  addressed  
is successfully delivered. So I dont think that Barclays was wrong,  or acting  unreasonably,  in 
choosing to contact  Mr P by letter. 
So overall I think it would be unreasonable to require Barclays  to refund Mr P the Tech Pack 
fees when it had taken reasonable steps to make Mr P aware  of the changes  that were due 
to take place on his account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7594746