K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of the final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Mr Cs complaint and to 
require Toyota to allow him to reject the car. I invited  Mr C and Toyota  to let me have any 
further evidence  or arguments they wanted  to make before  I finally determined the matter.
Mr C said he accepted  my provisional  decision.  He made some further points about the car 
he had hired whilst his car was being  repaired and said he felt that these  costs  should be 
recoverable. 
Toyota didnt say whether it accepted my provisional  decision or not but it asked about  the 
current location of the car. This information  has now been provided.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points which Mr C has made about  the hire car but I remain  of the 
view that these costs  arent  recoverable for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr C has said that he accepts my provisional decision and Toyota  hasnt said anything. So I 
see no reason to reach different  conclusions from the ones I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  the complaint. Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc must:
Allow Mr C to reject  the car and end the agreement  with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr C
Refund the deposit paid by Mr C together with simple interest of 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 80% of the monthly payments made by Mr C
Refund the costs  of repairs  for brakes (£1,185)
Refund the costs  of repairs  for tyres (£878)
The sum of £3,573.48  (arrears  as at October 2019) are to be deducted from the 
amount to be refunded and shall be applied to the arrears before any sums are paid 
to Mr C
Write  off any remaining  arrears
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Cs credit  file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Ref: DRN70172102Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7017210