K820x#14complaint and background
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  them  a fee-paying  
Platinum packaged  bank account. They have said that they were  told that they needed  to 
take out the account to get a mortgage. They are also unhappy  with the complaint  calls that 
they had with Lloyds. Mr and Mrs B said that despite  telling Lloyds not to speak to Mr B they 
called him with the outcome of their complaint and this in turn caused  Mr B to suffer  from 
health issues.
Ive attached a copy  of my provisional  decision from 14 March 2019 and it forms part of this 
decision. In this provisional  decision  I set out my thoughts on why the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld, in short I did not think that the Platinum account was mis-sold and I thought that the 
that the £100 that Lloyds  offered for the way the complaint was handled was sufficient. 
I asked both Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds to let me have any more  information they wanted me 
to consider. Lloyds  has not added anything to my provisional findings, and Mr and Mrs B 
have responded  with some further  comments, which I will respond  to.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not think that Lloyds 
needs to do anything more than it has agreed  to do.
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional  decision  raising  a number of points. These 
included.
That is was TSB that made the original  complaint rather  than Mr and Mrs B.
They reiterated why they believe the Platinum account was mis-sold. They stated 
that they did not feel that they had any choice but to take the account out for a 
mortgage and they could not use the benefits the account came with.
That as I did not mention  Mr Bs medical condition by name  I was downplaying its 
serious nature.
In relation to the first point  I do not think that it matters who originally  suggested that Mr and 
Mrs B complain to Lloyds. Ultimately I have looked  into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and I dont 
think that the Platinum account was mis-sold for the reasons that I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I note Mr and Mrs Bs comments  that they do not feel that they had a choice but to take out 
the account but as I stated in my provisional  decision  I think that Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
been aware that the account  was optional. I say this because  they had held a free account 
for a number of years  so wouldve known free accounts were  available. In addition  to this 
due to the date that the Platinum account  was first introduced it could not have been linked 
to the mortgage  as they took out the mortgage 5 years prior to the account being available.
I also remain of the opinion, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that at the 
time the account  was taken out Mr and Mrs B did have a need  for the benefits  that the 
account came with so therefore Lloydss recommendation that they take out the account was 
not unreasonable.
Ref: DRN71887652In relation to Mr and Mrs Bs final point I would like to apologise if they feel I was making light 
of Mr Bs medical condition but I should  explain that as our decision are published and 
anonymised we have a duty to not include detailed information that could  potentially  identify 
a person. So that it why I used the term health issues rather  than specifically mentioning  the 
condition.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and set out in my provisional decision, I dont intend  to 
ask Lloyds Bank Plc to do anything more than it has already agreed  to do and therefore  it 
should pay Mr and Mrs B £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs Bs to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle complaints about  packaged  bank 
accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, I currently dont think that Lloyds 
mis-sold the Platinum account,  or that Lloyds needs to increase its offer of £100.  Id like to explain the 
reasons for my decision.
Ref: DRN71887653Ive started by thinking  about whether Mr and Mrs B were given a clear choice  in taking this account.  
At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision  based on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
Firstly I should say that Mr and Mrs B did hold a fee free account with Lloyds  prior to this sale and 
therefore I think that they would reasonably have been aware that free accounts  were  an option for 
them. Mr and Mrs B say in their complaint to this service that they had to take out the Platinum 
account in order to get a mortgage and that this occurred in 1996. But the Platinum account  did not 
exist until 2001. So I am not persuaded that the mortgage could have been the reason that they took 
out the Platinum account. It may well have been the case that they took out a different packaged bank  
account in 1996 and this is what they are recalling.  But in relation  to the Platinum account  sale,  which 
is the sole subject of this complaint, I do not think that it was sold to obtain a mortgage.  I think  it is 
more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs B took out the Platinum account  due to the benefits that it came 
with. 
From my understanding of Lloydss sales process at the time of sale I think that a personal 
recommendation was made and therefore Lloyds had to ensure that the account was right for Mr and 
Mrs B based on their circumstances at the time. In 2001 when the Platinum  was taken  out it came 
with travel insurance, breakdown cover and the £5 a month overdraft  usage fee (which was payable 
when a person with a free account used an overdraft) was waived. 
It seems that at the time of the sale Mr and Mrs B did travel, did drive and used their overdraft. I note 
Mr and Mrs B say that they suffered from medical  conditions which limited their ability to travel. But 
from their bank statements  it does seem as if they were still traveling around the time of the sale. I 
also can see that Mrs B said she had her own breakdown cover but she also has clarified  that this 
only covered  her and that Mr B was not covered  when she was not present. So I do not think  that 
Lloydss recommendation was inappropriate  as the Platinum account was the cheapest account that 
offered breakdown cover and travel insurance  at the time that it was likely sold.
Mr and Mrs B may not have been told everything about all benefits  that the account  came with but I 
cannot see anything specific that they were not told that I think wouldve  altered their decision to take 
out the account.
Mr and Mrs B may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that they havent benefitted from the 
account as much as theyd  hoped  and expected to when they agreed to it. I can also understand that 
given how their circumstances have changed since taking out the account that the account  would not 
have always been useful to them. But this does not mean that the account  was sold incorrectly 
initially. So having thought about the information provided  and listened to everything Mr and Mrs Bs 
said, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold.
I will now address Lloydss complaint handling. I have carefully listened to the calls between Mr and 
Mrs B and Lloyds and I cant hear that Mrs B told Lloyds not to speak  to Mr B or that the Lloyds 
members of staff acted unprofessionally during these calls. So given this I dont think  that Lloyds 
needs to do anything more than offer the £100 that it already has agreed to.
Ref: DRN7188765