K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly paid money into a wrong account which  
has resulted in him losing  an investment and employment opportunity.
background
Mr B says a payment into his account for just under £5,000 was paid into his neighbours 
account by HSBC incorrectly. He says as a result he lost the trust of his employer and also 
lost out on a large investment. Mr B says he has lost his home  and would like HSBC  to hand 
over the ownership  of its company  to him.
HSBC says it wrote to Mr B and his neighbour and that Mr B used his neighbours details 
which meant the money was made  into the wrong  account. It accepts its systems should 
have picked up on the mistake and so has apologised  to Mr B and paid him £500 
compensation and refunded £698  in charges and repaid the money.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had acted fairly by 
refunding the money and charges and by paying  a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. The investigator thought  Mr B should  have checked  the account  details  and 
that HSBCs systems should  have  recognised  the mistake.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and says he should be awarded  compensation in the region of 
millions and says he was the victim of fraud. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator that HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. I realise Mr B will be unhappy  with my decision.
I think both sides have  made mistakes here. There is no issue that Mr B received his 
neighbours information from HSBC  and used that information which resulted in a payment 
being paid into the wrong account. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the misdirected 
mail as its not responsible for it. And I would have expected Mr B to have checked the 
details were correct or noticed that he had received  someone  elses details.
But I also accept that HSBC systems should  also have picked up on the mistake.  And I have 
no doubt that Mr B would have been  concerned about the location of his money and that in 
those circumstances  he would have been  caused  distress and inconvenience.
I am satisfied that HSBC  has acted fairly  by refunding the money and by making sure that 
the bank charges of nearly £700 were refunded. Im also satisfied that HSBC has explained 
to Mr B what took place  and has paid a fair and reasonable amount of £500  compensation. I 
think that amount  fairly reflects the level of HSBCs  mistake and the impact it had upon Mr B.
I appreciate Mr B says he lost out on a large investment but Ive not seen any details of that 
investment or evidence  about why it didnt  proceed. In any event  I dont think  HSBC can be 
responsible for that lost investment and I cant order that HSBC be transferred  to Mr Bs 
ownership as he would like.
Ref: DRN71673972Overall I think  both side made mistakes. But Im satisfied that HSBC  has acted fairly in how it 
responded to its mistake  and so I cant fairly order it to increase  the compensation to the 
amount Mr B would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7167397