K821x#15the complaint
Mr W says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr W says during this time he lost 
online access to his accounts and couldnt  move money between them when he needed to. 
He said this meant he couldnt use the debit card on one account as he normally would have 
and he had to rely on family members to transfer and withdraw money  for him. He told us the 
problems lasted for about three weeks and also meant he couldnt use his card when  he 
went on a foreign holiday in May  so he had to rely on his partner instead.
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and recommended TSB pay £150  for the trouble and 
upset Mr W had experienced  and £6 for call costs. TSB accepted  this, but Mr W didnt  feel 
it was enough  compensation. He said TSB paid him £181 for a separate complaint about his 
replacement debit card, which he felt was less serious and went on for less time than his 
problems with account access.  
A second adjudicator then reviewed the complaint and, based  on what Mr W had told us, felt 
£300 (and call costs) would be fairer compensation. But Mr W still didnt think  this was 
enough to recognise the impact on him and his family. He says TSB is a multi-million pound  
company and feels compensation of £500 to £1,000 would be more  appropriate.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I dont  think  it would be appropriate  to direct TSB to pay Mr W any more than 
the £306 the adjudicator  recommended  and which TSB tells us its now paid to Mr W.  
Mr W says he doesnt  feel this amount fairly reflects the wider impact on his family   or 
TSBs size. But we dont  base our awards  on how much the business  being complained 
about is worth. It wouldnt be fair to do that, as it would mean people  whove  experienced 
similar problems  would  end up with very different amounts of compensation. 
Instead my role is to look at Mr Ws complaint and weigh up the overall impact the issues 
had on him and then decide what I think a fair amount of compensation would be to reflect 
that. And when Im doing  this Im looking at the impact on Mr W, as he is TSBs customer.
Mr W told us the IT problems essentially meant  he couldnt access any of his own money 
properly for weeks and left him having  to rely on other people. Its clear  he found  this 
frustrating and hes also said it was embarrassing and inconvenient.  
Ive looked at the statements for two of Mr Ws current accounts  to get a picture of the 
impact the problems had and how long for. I can see Mr W typically moves money around 
quite frequently  between  his current accounts and into and out of his savings accounts. 
Some of these transfers happen  by standing order, but many  are direct transfers Mr W 
makes himself. 
Ref: DRN76817352For about a week  after the migration, there were no direct transfers between the accounts. 
So it seems  there was some impact  on Mr Ws ability to move  and access his money during 
this time. But I can also see that standing orders seem to have operated  as normal  and the 
direct debits for Mr Ws bills were  paid. By the first week in May direct transfers between the 
accounts had resumed  and there was also regular debit card activity on both accounts. So 
it seems Mr W was able to access his money from this point.   
I can see that, towards the end of May and into June, one of Mr Ws debit cards  was used 
several times for transactions abroad. These were in the location Mr W told us he went on 
holiday  so it seems he was able to access  his money as he wanted to. I understand Mr W 
was caught up in a system problem which affected  VISAs card payment systems for one 
day of his holiday. This issue was widely reported  at the time and must have been 
concerning for Mr W. But it wasnt caused  by TSBs  IT issues  and didnt only affect TSB 
customers. And Mr W was still able to use his debit card regularly on his holiday before and 
after this issue. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to direct TSB to pay 
Mr W the substantial compensation hes asked for. I think  the amount the adjudicator has 
already recommended  is fair for the issues he raised  and the impact theyre likely to have 
had on him. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr W £300 for the impact the IT issues had; and
pay Mr W £6 for call costs 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  but only where it hasnt 
already done so. TSB has told us it has already paid these amounts to Mr W. If so, it doesnt 
now have to pay him anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7681735