K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has not treated her fairly as it will not 
consider her request for either a payment  holiday or additional borrowing for her shared 
equity mortgage.
background
Ms W accepted the mortgage offer in 2008. In April 2018 she was unhappy to learn that 
some features were  no longer available to her at a time when theyd have been particularly 
helpful.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  be upheld. He said that features of the 
mortgage such as a payment holiday were not something that The Co-Op  had to offer and 
were always  subject to its agreement. It had made  the commercial decision to stop offering 
payment holidays  late in 2013  and it did not have to tell Ms W about  that at the time. 
Ms W did not agree. She is unhappy that her complaint  about  The Co-Op  is not being  
considered together with those about  the other parties involved with her property purchase  
with an equity loan.  As her mortgage  went beyond her retirement  age The Co-Op should 
allow her some flexibility.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer accepted by Ms W said that she could request  a payment holiday or 
apply for further  finance. I can see from correspondence provided  by The Co-Op that in the 
past it has provided her with periods  of payment holiday  including  one that lasted until 
December 2013.  Its told this service that at around  that time it also decided  it would  no 
longer offer this facility for shared equity mortgages. And Ive seen its detailed lending  
criteria. It also will not provide further lending and it says that as it does not allow  variations it 
has a telephone script for calls about  this. I know that Ms W found this approach particularly 
inflexible.
Im afraid I agree with the adjudicator that The Co-Op has not made a mistake  and that it 
does not have to offer any additional  features.  It has taken a commercial decision about 
them and how to deal with related requests. I can only look here at its actions and I dont 
have a basis to require it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN76669602my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666960