K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Miss W and Mr M payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss W and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Miss W and Mr Ms comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Miss W and Mr M have  said the PPI was added without their knowledge. However, I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  14 years ago when the 
PPI started. And I can see a document from the time in which the PPI was recommended to 
Miss W and Mr M, and presented  as an option.  So I think its likely  the PPI was mentioned in 
the documents they saw when setting up the mortgage, even  if they dont know  remember  it. 
And I think Bank of Scotland  made  Miss W and Mr M aware that the PPI was optional, but 
that they still chose  to take it.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss W and Mr M, and this means  it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Miss W and Mr Ms particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though  the 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Miss W and 
Mr Ms situation at the time. Its likely Miss W and Mr M were eligible for the policy. And 
finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would 
have paid benefits at the same time as Miss W and Mr M received any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back other 
means they may have had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Miss W and 
Mr M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. So I think the PPI would  have been  potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
Miss W and Mr M have  mentioned  life and critical illness policies that would have  helped  
instead of the PPI. But those would only have been  payable if the policyholder  died or 
suffered one of a limited number of very serious illnesses. Whereas the PPI covered you for 
unemployment and not being  able to work because of any kind of illness (with some 
limitations).
 Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained  the costs  and benefits of the policy.  
Ref: DRN73246202But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
whether Miss W and Mr M took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Miss W and Mr M would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7324620