K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  about the service  she received  during a call with TSB Bank plc.
background
Ms K banked with TSB and contacted it regarding a transaction  that she disputed. This issue  
was eventually resolved, but during a call on 20 November 2018, she felt the advisor was 
unhelpful and that she was discriminated against.  The advisor told her to go to her local 
branch because there was a language barrier,  causing her to feel humiliated and 
distressed.
Complaining to TSB, Ms K said she felt discriminated  against because of her race and 
nationality. She said the call handler was rude and inappropriate, and she felt she had no 
option other than to go to the branch, which was particularly difficult  because  of her anxiety. 
TSB accepted thered been poor customer service  as it hadnt sent out a new bank card 
within seven days.  It agreed to pay Ms K £21 for expenses, and £30 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. But it didnt accept its call handler was rude or unprofessional  
during the call on 20 November 2018. It didnt accept it was the call handlers intention  to 
cause Ms K any upset  or offence  by asking her to visit the branch and explained she would 
have been able to sit down and go through exactly what had happened.
Ms K wasnt satisfied and so she complained  to this service. Our investigator felt the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She accepted the call wasnt well handled, and she understood 
why Ms K had been upset. She didnt think the call recording was difficult to hear,  or that 
there was any reason  the call handler couldnt have understood what Ms K was saying. But 
she didnt think Ms K had been discriminated against. Rather, she felt this was a case of 
poor customer service and recommended a payment  of £150 compensation to put things 
right.
Ms K has asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. She maintains she was 
treated differently based on the fact English isnt her first language, and that this amounts to 
discrimination, rather than poor customer service.
TSB has argued that a further  £150 compensation is excessive and that shes already been 
adequately compensated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
The crux of this complaint is whether Ms K was treated fairly and reasonably during the call 
on 20 November 2018. Our investigator  has correctly explained that our service  cant  look at 
whether a business has acted unlawfully, or whether it was compliant with the Equality Act. 
Rather, its our role to comment on whether  Ms K was treated fairly and reasonably by TSB. 
Ive listened to the call and while I accept  its occasionally difficult to understand what Ms K 
is saying, I dont consider  this is to such an extent that the call handler couldnt  reasonably  
have continued  with the call. The call handler had difficulty understanding what  Ms K was 
Ref: DRN76179972trying to say, but I dont  accept this was due to a language barrier, rather, this was a 
confusing situation  that he should reasonably  have  taken  more time to try to understand. 
I think the call handlers decision to advise Ms K to go to the branch was unreasonable  in the 
circumstances and that he should  have  done  more to try and resolve the issue  during the 
call. I consider his failure to do so resulted in unfairness,  as she had to visit the branch in 
circumstances where  she wouldnt otherwise  have  needed to. I understand any subsequent 
outcome may still have  left Ms K dissatisfied, but that wouldnt necessarily be unfair  or 
unreasonable.
Ms Ks query was left unresolved in circumstances where the call handler couldve done 
more to help her and where I think it was reasonable for her to have expected to receive 
more help. I completely  understand  why she felt discriminated against because of her race 
and nationality; and why this left her feeling humiliated and anxious. 
I consider this was a case of poor customer service  which resulted in unfairness and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience for which Ms K should be compensated. I 
understand TSB doesnt agree Ms K is entitled  to any more compensation than its already 
offered, but I accept  she was made  to feel humiliated and distressed and that she had to visit 
the branch unnecessarily. I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and that it addresses  the impact TSBs failings had on Ms K.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct TSB Bank  plc to pay Ms K £150 compensation. The 
compensation is to be paid within  28 days of the date on which  we tell TSB Bank plc Ms K 
accepts my final decision (if she does).  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest*  on 
the compensation from the date my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB Bank plc to take off tax from this interest. TSB 
Bank plc must give Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7617997