K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2012 by Professional  Financial 
Services (PFS) to invest £50,000  into an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme  
(UCIS). He thinks the investment wasnt suitable for him and he wants  to be compensated 
for the losses that he has incurred as a result.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  over the course of several years,  Mr M used  his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) to invest  in a number of different commercial property schemes as follows:
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61) in 2007
£100,000 in the Merchant  Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64) in 2007
£75,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 67 (MP67) in 2009
£50,000 in the Eaton Active Special Opportunity Property Fund (Eaton Active  Fund) 
in 2009
£100,000 in the Merchant Place Property  Partnership Commercial Property Income 
Fund 2 (CPIF2) in 2010
£50,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership Green Power Plant  Limited 
Partnership (GPPLP) in 2012
Mr M was a client  of PFS when he made  the investments. In 2015,  he complained to PFS 
about all six investments. He said that he had been advised by PFS to put a high proportion 
of his SIPP into a number of unsuitable investments  and that these investments had 
performed poorly  and were difficult to sell. He said PFS had miscategorised his attitude to 
risk. And he said he had been given scant information to support  the advice hed been given. 
PFS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendations  were  within  Mr Ms attitude to 
risk. It said it had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendations and that documentation on 
the proposed  investments had also been provided.  It said it had outlined the various risks of 
the proposed  investments. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
couldnt look at his complaint because he had elected to be treated as a professional client.  
Nevertheless, Mr M did refer his complaint to this service. 
In my provisional decision I dealt with just Mr Ms investment in the GPPLP (his complaints 
about his other investments have been  looked at separately). I said, in short, that we could 
look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. And I decided to uphold  the complaint because I 
didnt think PFSs advice had been  suitable given Mr Ms circumstances and needs.
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision. Mr M provided evidence 
to show the GPPLP had been  liquidated  with no return to any investors.  Otherwise, neither 
party provided me with any further  substantive evidence  or comments  in response to my 
provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN73840162my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings, especially as neither  party has provided me with any further 
substantive evidence and arguments in response to my provisional decision. It therefore  
follows that I uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Fair compensation
To compensate Mr M fairly PFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any 
interest awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension  plan.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  
or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed 
according to his likely tax paying status  in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 
15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Merchant
Place
Green 
Power Plant  
Limited 
Partnership
(GPPLP)Liquidated 
with no 
return to 
any 
investorsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return  
Indexdate of
investmentdate of
final 
decision8% simple per year from 
date of final decision to 
date of settlement (if 
compensation is not paid 
within 28 days of the 
business being notified 
of acceptance of final 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Based on 
Mr Ms response to my provisional decision,  the GPPLP has now been liquidated and Mr Ms 
investment has no value. Given this, the paragraph  after next looks to be the most 
appropriate for the purposes of compensation although PFS is unlikely to need  to draw up 
Ref: DRN73840163an undertaking with regards  to future  returns from the investment (but it can do so if it 
wishes).
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil
for the purpose  of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay PFS any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PFS will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. This includes any payments made as a 
result of a cash call.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PFS totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN73840164my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  compensation to be paid by a financial business of 
up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or  costs  that I think  are appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend the business  pays the balance.
Determination and award : I uphold this complaint. I require Professional Financial Services 
to pay Mr M compensation  as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any interest  
as set out above. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Professional  Financial Services pays Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Professional  Financial 
Services doesnt have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want  to get independent  legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73840165COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given in 2012 by Professional Financial Services  
(PFS) to invest £50,000 into an Unregulated Collective  Investment Scheme (UCIS).  He thinks  the 
investment wasnt suitable  for him and he wants to be compensated for any losses that he has 
incurred as a result.
background
Over the course of several years, Mr M used  his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to invest  in a 
number of different commercial property  schemes as follows:
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 61 (MP61)  in July 2007
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership 64 (MP64)  in September  2007
 £75,000 in the Merchant Place Property  Partnership  67 (MP67) in January  2009
 £50,000 in the Eaton  Active Special Opportunity Property Fund in May 2009
 £100,000 in the Merchant Place Property Partnership Commercial Property Income  Fund 2 
(CPIF2) in October 2010
In 2012, Mr M made his sixth such investment  - £50,000 in the Merchant Place  Property  Partnership 
Green Power Plant Limited Partnership  (GPPLP). All six investments  are classed as UCIS 
investments. Mr M was a client of PFS when he made the investments.  He has complained about  the 
advice he received  from PFS for all six investments.  This complaint deals with just Mr Ms investment 
in the GPPLP.
Ahead of investing in the GPPLP, PFS sent Mr M a letter saying it proposed classifying  him as an 
elective professional client (rather than a retail client). It outlined its reasons for doing this, along  with 
some of the protections Mr M could  lose as a result   for example, in relation to being  able to bring 
complaints to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service.  It asked Mr M to confirm his agreement  to this, 
which he did.
A meeting  between the parties took place on 1 May 2012. A one-page  fact-find  (headed Short  Fact 
Find  Essential Notes)  was completed. It recorded Mr Ms circumstances, needs and objectives in a 
series of boxes containing hand written notes. Mr M is noted as having  a good  household income 
and a substantial  investment portfolio including deposits. He was said to have wanted to invest 
maturing monies in his SIPP for long term capital  growth.  The amount he had available to invest  was 
said to be £50,000.  His attitude to risk was recorded in a tick box as being adventurous (the highest 
of the five options  available).  
In the recommendation  box, MPP Green Energy Fund was written down with the date of the 
recommendation put as 4 May 2012. A tick box recorded the risk of the product as being 
adventurous (also the most adventurous  of the five available). 
On 11 May 2012 PFS wrote to Mr M confirming its discussions and recommendations.  Under the 
heading of Objectives, the letter said:
Your SIPP has received cash from a maturing investment.  You wish to purchase a further property 
partnership. At the present time, your prime objective  is long term capital growth. You are an 
experienced property investor who is prepared to risk capital.
Ref: DRN73840166Under Attitude  to Risk  the letter went on to say:
We established that your attitude to risk could  realistically be described  as adventurous.
An Adventurous Investor is willing  to accept a much higher level of risk (including a reasonable  
exposure to overseas markets) in return for the potential for higher returns  in the longer term. They 
recognise that this may result in the value  of their portfolio fluctuating,  possibly significantly,  in the 
short term.  They are aware that the risks are such that a significant percentage of the capital sum 
could be lost.
The Attitude to Risk section also said commission of £4,000 was going to be paid to PFS. 
The Recommendation section of the letter outlined  details of the proposed investment in the GPPLP,  
including risk warnings in relation to the investment being  a UCIS,  a limited liability  partnership and a 
property investment. It also said Mr M had confirmed he wanted  to be treated as an elective 
professional client (although  the dates the letter quotes to evidence this look to have been in relation 
to a previous investment).
The application form was signed by Mr M on 4 May 2012 and the £50,000 investment in the GPPLP 
was made.
Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015. He said that he had been advised  to put a high proportion 
of his SIPP  into a number of unsuitable investments and that these investments had performed  poorly 
and were now proving  difficult  to sell. He says he shouldnt have  been classified  as an adventurous 
investor. He also said he had been given  scant information to support  the advice hed been given. 
PFS rejected  Mr Ms complaint. It said its recommendation was within Mr Ms attitude to risk. It said it 
had sent Mr M confirmation  of its recommendation  in its letter dated  11 May 2012, and documentation 
on the proposed investment  had also been provided. It said it had outlined the various risks of the 
proposed investment. And PFS also told Mr M that the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt look at 
his complaint because he had elected  to be treated as a professional client. Nevertheless, Mr M did 
refer his complaint  to this service. 
An ombudsman considered the points PFS made about Mr M being  a professional  client and 
concluded that our rules did allow us to look into the merits of Mr Ms complaint. An adjudicator  then 
upheld Mr Ms complaint because she thought the advice given to him had been unsuitable. She said,  
in short, that too high a proportion of Mr Ms SIPP had been invested in UCIS investments.
PFS disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It said Mr M was an adventurous investor  and the 
GPPLP was within his risk tolerances. It said the proportion invested in UCIS investments wasnt too 
high given Mr M also had substantial assets outside his SIPP.  It also said Mr M was being  
disingenuous when he said he didnt receive  any written confirmation of the advice  hed been given. 
PFS also restated  its opposition to this service  looking  at the merits  of Mr Ms complaint.  The 
complaint has therefore  been referred to me for a decision.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Jurisdiction
We have  previously said that this service  could look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint. As PFS has 
maintained its objection to this, Ive considered its points afresh. However,  I agree  that this is a 
complaint we can look at.
Ref: DRN73840167Professional Client Categorisation
PFS categorised Mr M as an elective  professional client. This is important here because  
professional clients can lose some protections, including the right to bring complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However,  in my view, PFS has fallen short of what  was required under the rules 
regarding the categorisation of professional  clients. 
COBS 3.5.3 states the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and,
where applicable,  (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and knowledge  of the 
client that gives reasonable  assurance, in light of the nature of the transactions or services 
envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment decisions  and understanding the 
risks involved  (the qualitative  test);
(2) in relation to MiFID  [not applicable here]
(3) the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a professional client 
either generally or in respect of a particular  service or transaction or type of transaction or 
product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c) the client  must state  in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is aware  of 
the consequences of losing such protections.
PFS wrote to Mr M on 12 April 2012 saying it intended to classify him as an elective professional 
client. It defined an elective professional client as being someone who had:
enough wealth, financial knowledge and experience  to be able to decide on the merits of an 
investment by himself.
It thought  Mr M fitted this description because  he had invested assets of at least  £400,000, had 
invested in a similar scheme  in the last two years, had invested directly in the property market,  and 
had investment property worth £300,000. 
Mr M signed a statement agreeing to be an elective  professional  client on 12 April 2012. This was the 
same day as the date of the letter, so its possible the confirmation was signed  during a meeting with 
PFS (although  theres no record on file of such a meeting taking place)  or through an exchange of 
emails. It should also be noted that in its recommendation letter, PFS says its professional client letter 
was sent on 16 September with Mr Ms confirmation dated as 19 September. These look to be 
referencing an investment from 18 months previously (CPIF2) so Ill assume these are typographical 
errors and the private client process  was undertaken in April 2012,  shortly before the advice  meeting 
took place. 
Having reviewed  all the available documents,  its clear  to me that PFS didnt undertake  an adequate 
assessment of Mr Ms capability to decide  on the investment  in question. It assumed Mr M had the 
requisite capability because he had a sizeable  investment portfolio, had some experience in investing 
in property,  and had invested in a similar scheme previously. But to say these  would have  given Mr M 
the required knowledge and expertise  of commercial property and unregulated investments is, in 
my view, a stretch. 
Ref: DRN73840168For instance, just because Mr M had invested in a similar scheme in the preceding two years doesnt 
mean he built up any real understanding in this area. He may have done.  But there isnt anything to 
support this. The fact find was short  just one page  and didnt cover anything  about  Mr Ms 
understanding of the investment in question.  Likewise,  its not clear to me why having a relatively  
large portfolio, or some exposure to an investment property, necessarily confers expertise on 
someone when it comes  to something  as specific as commercial property and unregulated 
investments. 
I recognise Mr M was sent a recommendations letter which outlined some  key points of the GPPLP. 
He also signed an application form which confirmed he had read and understood the information  
provided in the investments memorandum. A similar process  was followed for his earlier UCIS 
investments. PFS has argued that this is evidence of Mr Ms capability to make investment decisions 
as a professorial client.  
PFSs arguments dont change my thinking. For a start, PFS says the prospectuses provided  on Mr 
Ms various UCIS investments sometimes downplayed their risk so, by its own admission, they cant 
be relied upon  as being an impartial source of information for Mr M. And the GPPLP application form 
Mr M signed to confirm  his understanding of the investment was signed  on 4 May which reduces its 
validity as a source of information for this purpose given Mr M had already agreed to be a 
professional client by that point . Even  putting  these  concerns to one side, PFSs  logic is circular. It is 
using documents from around the time of the investment to prove  Mr M already had the necessary  
experience in such  an investment.  
If the point  PFS is making is that the previously  signed sales  documents (in relation to Eaton  Active or 
CPIF2 for instance) are evidence of Mr Ms capability  and understanding in relation to investing in the 
GPPLP, I note that the underlying investments in these  schemes  were different (in relation  to types of 
property being invested in, country of investment and levels of gearing for example)  so the parallels 
arent necessarily that strong.
Theres nothing else in Mr Ms circumstances   his profession for instance  that makes me think he 
had the expertise, experience or knowledge that the rules required of a professional  client.  So, all 
things considered, I dont think it was correct for PFS to classify  Mr M as a professional client.  In 
short, the qualitative test of COBS 3.5.3 hasnt been met. Given this, I dont need to make a finding on 
whether the other  requirements of rule have been met. 
DISP 2.7  Professional Clients and Eligibility
As Im satisfied Mr M wasnt correctly  categorised as a professional client, Im not bound to consider 
him as one for the purposes of DISP  2.7. However,  for the sake  of completeness, Im also satisfied 
the rules PFS is relying on, under DISP 2.7, to say professional clients cant bring complaints to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  dont apply  here. 
DISP 2.7.1 says:  A complaint may only be dealt  with under  the Financial  Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf  of an eligible  complainant . 
DISP 2.7.3 goes on to say an eligible complainant must be:
(1) a consumer;
(2) a micro-enterprise;
(a) in relation to a complaint  relating wholly  or partly to payment services, either  at the time of the 
conclusion of the payment  service contract or at the time the complainant  refers the complaint to 
the respondent; or
(b) otherwise, at the time the complainant refers the complaint to the respondent;
Ref: DRN73840169(3) a charity which has an annual income  of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  refers the 
complaint to the respondent;
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  
refers the complaint to the respondent. 
Mr M meets the definition of a consumer as defined by the regulators glossary:
an individual  acting for purposes which are wholly  or mainly outside  that individuals  trade,  business, 
craft or profession.
However, PFS points  to DISP 2.7.9 which  gives several  exceptions to the list of eligible complainants.  
One of these  is for professional clients. PFS says this applies to Mr M. 
The point of contention is that an amendment  to the rules came into effect  on 9 July 2015 which says 
DISP 2.7.9 doesnt  apply to a complainant who is a consumer in relation to the activity to which 
the complaint relates  (DISP 2.7.9A). In other words, from 9 July 2015 Mr M, as a consumer, would  no 
longer be subject to the professional client exception meaning he would be an eligible complainant. 
Mr M complained to PFS on 15 May 2015 which is before DISP 2.7.9A applied. However, he brought  
his complaint to us on 27 August 2015 which is after DISP  2.7.9A applied. PFS says Mr Ms complaint 
should be judged  according to the date he referred his complaint to PFS, which  would mean  a 
professional client (if correctly assessed) would not be an eligible complainant. 
To support  its argument, PFS refers to the rules in respect  of three other categories of eligible 
complainants outlined in DISP 2.7.3  micro-enterprises, charities and trusts. DISP 2.7.3  is explicit in 
anchoring eligibility  to the date that a complaint is made to the respondent (i.e. the business) for these 
categories of complainant. PFS argues that the same approach should apply in Mr Ms case, even 
though the same rules  are silent on the issue for consumers. 
Ive considered this matter  carefully. But I dont think it follows that the rules  in respect of micro-
enterprises, charity or trustees should also apply  to consumers when the rules for consumers are 
worded in a conspicuously different way. I think the fact that the wording is different here cant be 
ignored or assumed  to be an oversight that can simply be bypassed  by applying  the rules  for 
completely different categories of complainant as a proxy. 
The fact is, in relation to consumers, the rules dont specify eligibility is from the date the complainant 
refers the complaint to the respondent. This means I should apply  the rules  as they are written and in 
force at the point the complaint was brought to us. And as the rules in relation to the exemption in 
question had changed by this point, Im satisfied Mr M was an eligible complainant.
Finally, I recognise PFS doesnt think the ruling  in the case  of Bluefin Insurance  Services Limited v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  Limited assists in this case because the complaint in that case  was 
initially brought  to us rather than to the business. However, as has been pointed out before, the ruling 
does have relevance.  The judge said:
In my judgment it is clear that a complainant  is only eligible if, at the time the complaint is brought, he 
or she falls within the definition  of a consumer. Further,  there is nothing in the definition of "consumer"  
in the glossary which suggests otherwise. Accordingly, I agree with D that Mr Lochner would  be an 
eligible complainant if, at the time he brought the complaint, he was a consumer as defined  by the 
glossary.
Whilst accepting the parallels between the Bluefin case and this case  arent exact, the wording  above 
does nevertheless indicate  that a complainant would be eligible  if, at the time they brought  the 
complaint to us, they were a consumer as defined by the glossary.  This describes Mr M.
It follows from all the above that this is a case that we can consider further.
Ref: DRN738401610Mr Ms attitude to risk
Turning to the merits of the complaint, my starting point is Mr Ms attitude to risk. 
PFS classified  Mr M as being an adventurous investor. This was their highest category, out of a 
possible five categories. However, Mr M says he shouldnt have been classed as an adventurous 
investor. He says he never agreed this rating with PFS. He says he wasnt even medium/high risk 
and certainly  not adventurous.  
In response, PFS points to the fact-find,  which  recorded Mr M as being an adventurous investor, and 
the recommendations letter  which  confirmed this rating. It notes Mr M never queried this with PFS 
after being sent the letter.
My view is that the risk rating process was rudimentary  to say the least. There wasnt a detailed  
questionnaire for instance,  or any other analytical tool, to objectively measure Mr Ms preferences  and 
thoughts on this subject.  The fact-find didnt even contain any explanation of the different risk 
categories or any commentary on why Mr M was classified in the way he was. So its unclear how Mr 
M came  to be classed as being an adventurous  investor.  It might  just have been a case  of the adviser  
asking Mr M what he thought his rating was and ticking the box accordingly. It might have been a 
case of Mr Ms risk preference  being chosen to align  with the proposed investment (rather than the 
other way around  as it should have been). Or Mr Ms risk preference might have been assumed to be 
adventurous based on his previous investments. Whatever the process, it doesnt appear to have 
been particularly in-depth, robust or well documented. Im also mindful of the fact that Mr M didnt sign 
the fact-find to confirm his attitude to risk.
Importantly, when Mr M first became a client of PFS in 2007 he signed a Terms of Business  
document. In this document, he scored his attitude  to risk as being a 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. Im 
satisfied this means Mr M wasnt an adventurous investor at this point;  more likely he was a medium-
risk investor which would tally with what Mr M has said. The 2007 process also seems to have been 
more robust than what followed. Theres at least some explanation of the different categories with 1 
being described as guaranteed/little risk and 10 as very speculative/no guarantees.  The Terms of 
Business also refer to a separate  risk guide. And Mr M signed just below the risk rating to confirm  his 
agreement with the Terms of Business. 
So Im inclined to put more faith in the 2007 attitude-to-risk process  rather than what came later. Of 
course, both could be correct. Its feasible someone could be a medium risk investor in 2007 but had 
moved to being in the most adventurous category by 2012. However, this would be unusual   
especially as Mr M was still being described by PFS as having  a balanced approach to the majority 
of his investments  in 2009. Without  there being any explanation for why Mr M changed his attitude  to 
risk so much, or any rigour to the later risk assessment,  I dont think  I can reasonably  take the view 
that Mr M had become an adventurous investor by 2012. 
Ive considered PFSs point that Mr M didnt respond to the recommendations letter  and that this 
means he must have  been  comfortable with its contents, including its confirmation of him as being an 
adventurous investor. PFS has also argued that Mr M must have had a higher risk tolerance given his 
previous investments. So even though the process may not have been documented properly (not that 
PFS ever says this),  Mr M was, nevertheless, still at the higher end of the risk spectrum.  
I accept Mr M did want  to take on some risk, and my decision does  reflect this. However, I dont feel 
Mr Ms lack of response to the recommendations letter can necessarily  be considered  as being  tacit 
agreement for everything that it contained.  I also note the letter was sent after Mr M had already  
signed an application form, and written a cheque, for the investment so the letters messages would  
have arrived too late for Mr M. As for his previous investments, Mr M was also advised on these  by 
PFS which used the same  light-touch approach to evaluating  his attitude to risk. So Im not persuaded 
Mr Ms previous investments can be used as objective evidence of Mr Ms attitude to risk.  
Ref: DRN738401611Was the advice suitable?
Ahead of investing in the GPPLP, Mr Ms SIPP was valued at £785,119. This was split between a 
portfolio run by a discretionary fund manager  (24%), cash (22%) and UCIS investments  (54%). (It 
should be noted that the very nature of Mr Ms UCIS investments makes valuation difficult. These 
figures are taken from a statement provided by Mr Ms SIPP provider and have been given  to PFS.)
Mr M used his SIPP to invest a further £50,000 in the GPPLP. It looks like the investment came from 
cash balances within his SIPP (from a maturing  investment) rather  being  funded from new money into 
the SIPP.  As a result, Mr Ms investment in the GPPLP accounted for approximately 6% of his SIPP, 
bringing his SIPPs total exposure to UCIS investments to around 61%. In my view this is too high 
given, as I explained  above, Im satisfied  Mr M shouldnt have  been classed as an adventurous 
investor.
I take on board  PFSs  point that UCIS  investments  arent all necessarily high risk, and that a case-by-
case approach needs to be taken when  looking  at the suitability of such investments. For the 
avoidance of doubt, I have taken into consideration the underlying asset of the GPPLP (a straw to 
electricity power  plant that was under  construction). 
However, in my view, this was a higher risk investment. At the very least, it was unregulated  and 
would have had a greater  degree  of illiquidity than more mainstream investments. I dont need to 
labour the point  PFS has said that the investments  in question  carried a relatively  high degree of 
risk and the fact-find confirmed as much. The key issue here is the amount that was allocated  to 
these investments. And in my view advising Mr M to invest 6% of his pension in a single,  potentially 
illiquid, unregulated, investment wasnt suitable advice  given Mr Ms pension  already had 54% in 
UCIS investments. This is especially so given the UCIS investments were all commercial property-
related, making Mr M, and his retirement plans, particularly exposed  to a downturn in this asset class. 
PFS has argued that Mr Ms total portfolio is far larger than indicated  above because he had 
investments that were held outside  his pension. By PFSs  reckoning, Mr M had a total portfolio of 
approximately £2 million.  In PFSs view, therefore,  the £50,000 invested in the GPPLP brings the 
cumulative total in UCIS investments to 23.7%.
This is a particular point of contention between the parties.  Mr M says he didnt  have such  a large 
portfolio outside of his SIPP. He says he had a one-fifth  share of a small family property worth 
£145,000 and joint savings with his wife of approximately  £200,000. These arent inconsiderable 
assets, but theyre nowhere near enough to change my thinking. By way of illustration, adding  Mr Ms 
share of these other assets to his SIPP assets means his total exposure to UCIS investments  falls 
from approximately 61% to 52%.
In contrast, PFS points to the fact-find which  recorded Mr M as having substantial  investment 
portfolio including  deposits. And its recommendation letter said the following  about the proposed 
investment:
 
Having considered both your income and expenditure we agreed that the investment of £100,000  
was affordable. This investment was selected on the basis  that it was the maximum that you wished 
to invest  to meet  your objectives at this time.  It represents a modest proportion <5% of your available 
cash and other investments
Given the £100,000 figure represented 5% of his portfolio, PFS has calculated Mr M must have had 
£2 million in total. So PFS is relying on what it says Mr M said about  his portfolio (on numerous  
occasions according  to PFS), and its recommendations  letter which, implicitly, indicates  how large Mr 
Ms portfolio must have been. 
I take on board  the fact that the above is contemporaneous evidence.  Even so, the evidence put 
forward by PFS for Mr Ms total portfolio size isnt particularly compelling.  For a start, its quite clear  
from the rest of the sales  documentation that Mr M invested  £50,000 in the GPPLP, not £100,000. By 
Ref: DRN738401612extension, this would mean Mr M either had £1 million in total (if the 5% figure was correct) or the 
investment represented 2.5%  of his total portfolio (if the £2 million figure is taken  to be correct  even 
though £2 million  isnt written down  anywhere). Either way, it isnt a particularly robust piece of 
evidence to rely upon.  
Part of the problem is that PFS says it doesnt have all its notes from that time.  But my sympathy for 
missing documents is limited  given  it was only three years between  Mr Ms advice and his complaint. 
It doesnt  look like Mr Ms other  assets were  investigated particularly thoroughly anyway because  PFS 
says it was happy to rely on what it was told. Whilst this a reasonable starting  point, I think  it would be 
remiss of an adviser to take everything its told at face value. After all, a client may not be fully aware 
of the details  of their financial position at any given point or they may not necessarily understand their 
finances well. COBS 9.2.5 is illustrative  in this respect. It says:
A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided  by its clients unless it is aware that the 
information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.
So I think PFS should have considered Mr Ms wider  portfolio with a bit more  rigour. It had a duty to 
advise Mr M suitably and it doesnt seem to me that it could have done this without looking into Mr Ms 
total assets more  thoroughly. If it had done  so, there may now be more  certainty about the relative 
size of Mr Ms unregulated investments. For the avoidance  of doubt,  it wasnt enough to just tell Mr M 
that his investment was around 5% of his total funds and to have then expected him to work out the 
rest and get back to PFS with any issues (especially given all the inconsistencies  mentioned above).
As PFS didnt investigate Mr Ms wider portfolio, or record any details in relation to it, we did ask Mr M 
about this. As I said above, he said he had a one-fifth  share of a small family property worth £145,000 
and joint savings with his wife of approximately  £200,000 sitting outside his SIPP. I see no reason  to 
disbelieve Mr M on this and, as I said above, PFSs evidence to the contrary  isnt especially  
compelling. However, it doesnt ultimately  impact on the outcome of the complaint anyway. I say this 
because:
 Even if I take PFSs figures at face value,  I still dont think its advice was suitable. Mr Ms 
portfolio already had a high exposure to UCIS/commercial property investments, even using 
PFSs estimates. Advising him to invest a further £50,000 along  the same lines to bring his 
total exposure to UCIS/commercial property to 23.7% (in PFSs view) wouldnt have been 
suitable given Mr Ms attitude to risk. The magnitude  of the problem might be less than if only 
his SIPP is taken into consideration. But the principle  is the same.  Mr M should not have been 
advised to invest such a large proportion  of his funds in this way. 
 I dont  think Mr Ms pension  should be subsumed, and overlooked,  in the way PFS has 
argued. We know little about Mr Ms specific investment goals.  But we do know his pension  
was central to his financial plans and was his reason for engaging PFS. And, given  his age at 
the time, we can also assume  he would  have been looking to draw on his pension within, 
approximately, just five years (as has been the case).  Putting too high a proportion  of his 
assets in higher risk, illiquid, assets  when his retirement was imminent doesnt strike me as 
suitable advice. 
 Mr M wasnt even advised of his total exposure to UCIS investments in the May 2012 
recommendations letter.  The letter  just mentions  the investment was a modest  proportion  
<5% of his total funds. It doesnt  give the full picture, which was that Mr M was increasing  his 
total exposure to UCIS  investments to 23.7% (in PFSs  view). Ignoring such important 
information in the recommendations letter suggests it wasnt  discussed with Mr M at all, so it 
would be difficult to say hed been  fully informed of his position or that he was comfortable with 
the risks he was running. The letter was also sent after he had already  signed the application 
form, and £50,000 cheque, for the investment so, all things considered, the audit trail of what 
Mr M was told ahead of making the investment is weak  to say the least. 
Ref: DRN738401613In short, even  with all the uncertainty in relation to Mr Ms total assets, its clear to me that there were  
a number of problems with the advice PFS gave to Mr M and (not coincidently) with the advice 
process itself. If PFS had acted as it should  have  done,  Im satisfied it wouldnt have advised Mr M in 
the way it did. 
What information did Mr M receive?
Mr M says he received little in the way of documentation in relation to the various investments  he 
made whilst  a client of PFS.  PFS says this isnt credible. It said it provided  Mr M with information  on 
all his proposed investments including their significant risks (either in its recommendations letter or 
through the schemes prospectuses).  It says Mr Ms recollections on this cast doubt  on his entire  
complaint. 
I think  it likely  Mr M would have received at least some of the documentation  referred to above,  and 
most likely a significant proportion of it. This isnt a comment on Mr Ms integrity. Its feasible  that he 
was sent information but cant now remember receiving  it. This doesnt change  the outcome of the 
complaint though. The critical issue here is whether PFS provided Mr M with suitable  advice. For the 
reasons given  above,  I dont think it did. 
This leads on to another point PFS has argued strongly about. It says it provided Mr M with 
information about his proposed investments, including their potential risks. It says it is dishonest  of 
Mr M to pretend he wasnt  aware  of the risks and unfair  that he is abrogating all responsibility now 
that hes no longer satisfied with how those investments have performed. 
I said earlier  that PFS wasnt especially clear in letting Mr M know his total exposure to unregulated 
investments. So even  though  Mr M would likely  have  known he was taking on some risk, I dont think 
he was sufficiently well informed of the full extent of what he was doing. I dont think its necessarily  
true, therefore, that Mr M had the full picture of what was happening as PFS has argued.  But even 
putting this to one side, PFSs premise is flawed here. Wrapping unsuitable advice in a number of risk 
warnings doesnt make  up for the failings in that advice. 
What would  Mr M have done if he had been advised  properly?
There is an argument that Mr M would  still have invested in the GPPLP even if PFS had advised him 
against doing  so. I say this because Mr M invested in commercial property/UCIS schemes  previously. 
Ive considered this very carefully because in situations  like this, my role is to put someone back  in the 
position they would have been in had a business  not given unsuitable advice. If Mr M would have still 
gone ahead with the investment  even if advised against  doing so  then he would have ended up in 
the same position whatever  PFSs  actions.  It wouldnt  necessarily be fair to hold PFS liable  for any 
losses in such a scenario.  
My view is that Mr M wouldnt have proceeded with the investment if he was advised against doing 
so. For a start, its seems unlikely  to me that a consumer  would go against the advice of a 
professional adviser.  And there isnt anything to show Mr M came to PFS with this particular 
investment in mind or was particularly  determined to follow through on the investment. As ever, the 
supporting documentation isnt comprehensive enough to show what, or how strong, Mr Ms intentions 
were. Mr Ms previous UCIS  investments also followed advice from PFS which weakens  the argument 
that it was Mr M, and Mr M alone,  who was driving  the process.  
Ref: DRN738401614Proposed Redress
It follows from the above that I intend to uphold this complaint. 
To compensate Mr M fairly PFS should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark  shown below.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
PFS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should  allow 
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free 
and the rest would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying  status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Merchant
Place
Green Power  
Plant Limited 
Partnership
(GPPLP)still existsFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of
investmentdate of
final decision8% simple  per year from 
date of final decision  to 
date of settlement  (if 
compensation  is not paid 
within 28 days of the 
business being notified 
of acceptance of final 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking to pay PFS any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. PFS will need to meet  
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Ref: DRN738401615Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. This includes any payments  made as a result of a cash  call.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler,  Ill accept  if PFS 
totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
If the investment has been sold, the parties should inform me so it can be factored into the approach 
to compensation, if due, in my final decision.
recommendation
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate.  If I think  that 
fair compensation is more  than this, I may recommend that the business  pays  the balance.
If I uphold this complaint, and the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation
outlined above, is more than £150,000 I will recommend PFS pays  Mr M the balance.  This 
recommendation will not be part of my determination  or award. PFS doesnt have to do what  I 
recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept  my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr M may want to get independent legal  advice before deciding whether to accept a final decision.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept investment risk.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called  an income index, the mix and diversification provided within  the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Ms 
circumstances and risk attitude.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Professional  Financial Services to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN7384016