K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has made unnecessary and 
unfair changes to its share dealing service. She says the changes have made it harder for 
her to manage her investments.
background 
Mrs B holds a stocks and shares ISA with NatWest. In January  2019, it wrote to her saying it 
could no longer take debit  card payments over the phone. In May 2019 Mrs B wrote to 
NatWest, asking it to allow her husband, Mr B, to place trades on her account for her. 
NatWest said it now required Mr and Mrs B to arrange a Power  of Attorney (POA)  if she 
wanted him to be able to trade  on her account.
Mrs B complained. She said the inability to make debit card payments had made using 
NatWests service much more inflexible. She was unhappy she was only able to fund her 
account by cheque or bank transfer from a NatWest account. She thought  she ought to have 
been able to make bank  transfers from her RBS account, as the banks  are part of the same  
group. 
She also complained  that shed always been  able to simply  give a signed  Letter  of Authority 
(LOA) in the past to allow her husband to trade for her. She said there was no legal or 
regulatory need for NatWest to demand  a POA instead, and complained  shed not been 
informed of the change of policy and she would incur a cost as a result.
NatWest didnt uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. It explained its telephone systems  had changed  
and were no longer  compliant with the relevant regulations which  would allow it to accept 
debit card payments.  So it had made  a variation to the way it would allow customers  to pay 
money into their accounts. And the bank said it had reviewed its third party  processes, and 
decided only to accept  dealing instructions from customers or those with legal authority to 
act for them  (through  a POA). It said it had done  this to ensure it kept its customers data 
safe and secure.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Overall  she thought the changes 
NatWest had made to its offering were  reasonable and within  the scope of its commercial 
judgement to make. She was satisfied NatWest had told Mrs B about the payment change  in 
good time, but thought  it ought to have done  more to tell her about the requirement for a 
POA. She said this would  have allowed  Mrs B to put something in place or make  other  
arrangements in advance of when she anticipated needing her husband to act for her. She 
thought the bank should pay Mrs B £50 to say sorry for that.
NatWest accepted the investigators assessment, but Mrs B didnt.  She felt it was unfair she 
was left either having to pay for a POA or to pay to move her account elsewhere in order to 
operate it as she wanted. She asked  for an ombudsmans  decision on the matter and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN72917492Firms are entitled to exercise their commercial judgement  and make  changes to the services 
they offer from time to time. And while the two changes NatWest has made  are ones that 
Mrs B feels  make  the service  inferior, Im satisfied that they were  reasonable decisions for 
the bank to take.
Where NatWest changed its phone systems, it can no longer take card payments over the 
phone without breaching the relevant data storage regulations. And Im satisfied it continues 
to offer reasonable alternatives to Mrs B to allow her to put money  into her ISA. While  I 
appreciate that sending  cheques means funding her account may take longer, she has the 
option of opening a NatWest current account and using that to make direct bank transfer 
payments into her ISA. The bank  gave Mrs B two months  notice of the change, which I think  
gave her a reasonable amount of time to make any arrangements she needed to in order  to 
fund the account.  So while I understand Mrs Bs frustration  that she cant make  card 
payments as shed  prefer, I dont think NatWest has treated  her unfairly.
With regard to the third party authority NatWest now requires, I can again understand why 
Mrs B feels  the service is less flexible  than before. Shed previously been able to give written 
authority to let her husband trade, so she could allow for changes  to her portfolio when she 
was unable to call the bank herself.  But while I agree that theres no legal requirement for 
NatWest to require  a POA, I think it is a reasonable decision for it to have taken and not one 
I think it would be appropriate  for me to interfere with.
NatWest has taken  a decision to ensure dealing instructions come from a customer directly,  
or someone  who has the legal authority in place through a POA.  This is because it needs to 
satisfy itself that the underlying customer has authorised  a particular transaction.  Given the 
increased prevalence  of banking fraud  and phishing type scams, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for NatWest to have decided  to amend the way it will allow third parties to act 
on accounts in this way. 
Ultimately Mrs B continues to be able to use her account as she chooses. Theres  no 
requirement for NatWest  to allow other  parties to act for Mrs B  she is their customer  and 
the account is in her sole name. So while I appreciate Mrs B may be unhappy the way 
NatWest has changed  its requirements affects  her ability  to let someone else use her 
account, I dont  think  in all the circumstances it has treated  her unfairly  or unreasonably by 
making the change  it did.
However, like our investigator,  I think NatWest ought to have been more  proactive in 
communicating this change to customers  especially those, like Mrs B, it knew  had 
previously used a LOA to allow someone else to trade on her account. And I think £50 is fair 
compensation for the inconvenience Mrs B was caused at only discovering the change when 
attempting to put a new LOA in place  and have her husband immediately able to trade.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank plc must  pay 
Mrs B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Ref: DRN72917493Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7291749