K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster)  mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
which it called the U First Gold  (UFG).
background
Mr T changed from a fee free bank account to a UFG  in May 2005 following a conversation  
with Ulster  in a branch.
The UFG provided a range of benefits  including worldwide travel insurance  and a limited 
interest free overdraft.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ts complaint and didnt think the UFG was mis-sold. Mr T 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  and Ill explain  why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr T was aware the UFG was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account. In his correspondence with us, Mr T has 
made it clear  that this is his main complaint.
Mr T says he was coerced and pressured into taking out the UFG. Whilst I dont  doubt  Mr Ts 
honest recollections, I think after the many  years that have elapsed, Mr Ts memory  is 
mistaken. 
I say this because  he had previously had a fee free bank account with Ulster;  and fee free 
accounts were widely  advertised by other  UK banks and financial businesses.  So I think its 
more likely than not that he wouldve been  aware  at the time of sale that fee free accounts 
were easily available  to him from Ulster and others.   
And if Mr T was being pressurised at the time of sale I think  its more  likely than not that he 
would have looked into what was available elsewhere and turned down Ulster Banks UFG if 
he didnt want to pay for an account.  Also if he had taken the UFG and then decided he was 
unhappy with it he could have cancelled his account  at any time and changed to a fee free 
one but he didnt and he kept it for many  years.
So I think Mr T was aware in May 2005  he had a choice and chose to take out the UFG.
Did Ulster  advise him to take out the UFG account? 
Ulster says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means  that it didnt recommend the 
UFG account to Mr T personally or advise  him to take it out. Mr T says that Ulster did advise 
him to take out the UFG account. 
Ref: DRN74318132I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Ts needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show me clearly  
that Ulster  did make a personal recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing 
information to Mr T and explaining the benefits of the UFG account, Ulster may have said or 
implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving  personal  
recommendations. And based on this services  knowledge of Ulsters sales  practices 
throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Ulster sold the UFG account to Mr T 
on an information only basis.  This means Ulster  did not have to ensure that the UFG account  
was suitable for Mr T at the time of the sale.
So the only requirement on Ulster  was to provide him with enough information for him to 
make an informed choice.
Did Ulster  provide Mr T with enough information  about the UFG account?
The UFG account benefits included worldwide  family travel  insurance, a £250  interest  free 
overdraft buffer and better interest on savings accounts.
I dont know what information Ulster  gave to Mr T although clearly Mr T did have substantial 
discussions with Ulster  who were trying to sell him the account.
Mr T says he travelled between one and three  times a year including  doing winter sports at the 
time of the sale. And Ulster has provided  evidence that he later benefitted from the free 
overdraft buffer and the better interest  rates on his savings account.
So I think its more likely  than not that when Ulster explained that the UFG account had free 
worldwide travel insurance with winter  sports cover,  an interest  free £250 overdrawn buffer 
zone and better interest rates  on savings accounts,  this was of interest to him. And I think  he 
saw it as useful  enough  for him to decide  to take out the account.
So in my view even  if Ulster didnt provide Mr T with all the information about the UFG 
account I think its more  likely than not Mr T wouldve  chosen  to take out the account due to 
the travel  and financial benefits.
For completeness, I note that Mr T has said that he didnt use the travel insurance  on 
occasions because  he didnt realise that he had to pay for a holiday with his Ulster Bank 
credit card or current account to get the insurance.  But Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest that Ulster led Mr T to believe he could arrange any travel insurance himself  and it 
would reimburse  him. So I think its more  likely  than not that if he intended to rely on the 
UFGs travel  insurance he would have  either  looked  at his welcome pack  or contacted  Ulster  
and found the correct  procedure available. I also cant see that he used the UFG travel  
insurance and was unable to make  a claim at any time. So I dont  think  he lost out in this 
way. 
So in my view, Mr T knew he had a choice  about the UFG and decided  to take it. And there  
was no information  that he wasnt given that would have put him off buying it.
So I dont  think he has lost out as result of anything Ulster may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN74318133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431813