K822xcomplaint
Miss H is unhappy with the service provided  by SGS Business Process Services  (UK) 
Limited (SGS) when arranging collection of her hire car.
background 
Miss Hs car was involved in a road traffic accident.  SGS were instructed to provide  a hire 
car on a credit basis. The costs for this were  to be recovered from the third party  insurer 
(TPI).
On 27 March 2019 Miss H spoke  to an SGS case hander to arrange collection of the hire 
car. While details were being confirmed,  the call was terminated.
On 29 March around 17.50  a call handler  tried to call Miss H to arrange  collection of the hire 
car. The call was unsuccessful. Miss H was left a voicemail saying  failure to return  the hire 
car may result in the car being  reported  as stolen. Miss H was also sent an email. Miss H 
contacted SGS saying that shed not heard  anything  from SGS after the call was terminated 
on 27 March. She was also unhappy that the email had been  sent late on Friday.
Miss Hs hire car was collected on Saturday. Miss H complained to SGS about the 
threatening contacts  received on 29 March, and also that she wasnt provided  with the option 
to return the hire car on Monday.  SGS apologised for what  happened,  and agreed that the 
communication on Friday,  and what Miss H was told about  police intervention  did take place 
in haste. 
Miss H referred her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. The investigator found that SGS hadnt  acted  
fairly in their communication with Ms H, and this had caused Miss H upset. Because of the 
impact on Miss H, the investigator  recommended SGS  pay Miss H £100. Miss H accepted 
these findings.  SGS didnt provide a response. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved its 
been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that SGS handling of collection of the hire car couldve been  better.  The 
call of 27 March 2019 was disconnected, through neither partys fault. As SGS were  
arranging collection,  I wouldve  expected  the case handler to have called Miss H back to 
finalise details for collection to take place. This didnt happen.
Miss H was contacted  late on Friday  evening, and told that failure  to return  the hire car could  
result in it being reported as stolen. Miss H was sent an email asking for return of the hire 
car. SGS have confirmed  that although it is usual  process to take these  steps to mitigate hire 
car costs, in the circumstances,  these communications shouldnt have been sent at the time. 
Miss H had spoken to a case handler  on 27 March. After the call was disconnected,  she 
didnt hear anything more from SGS.  To then be sent a voicemail and email suggesting that 
shed not co-operated with the process of returning the hire car, wouldve caused upset and 
Ref: DRN77215582frustration. So I think its fair that SGS  pay compensation in recognition of the impact on 
Miss H following their lack of clear communication  about collection of the hire car.
Miss H says that SGS  didnt offer her the option for collection of the hire car to take place on 
Monday- instead  of Saturday. SGS  provided  Miss Hs hire car on a credit basis.  This means  
that on conclusion  of Miss Hs claim, the costs  are usually recovered  from the TPI. Because 
of this, its important to ensure any costs claimed  from the TPI are fair and proportionate. 
Miss H may have preferred for collection to take place on Monday, however considering  the 
basis on which the hire car was provided,  I think it was reasonable for collection to take 
place on Saturday.  During the call on 27 March  Miss H also explained that she wouldnt want  
to leave the hire car unattended at her workplace.  As its likely Monday wouldve also been a 
working day, I cant say this option wouldve been  a more suitable one for Miss H. 
putting things right
The investigator recommended  SGS  pay £100  in recognition of the impact on Miss H for the 
service falling below the standard wed generally expect. Although Ive reached different 
findings from the investigator to some parts of the complaint, for the reasons explained,  I still 
think the £100 recommended is fair compensation to put things right.
The investigator also recommended SGS issue an apology. At this stage in the process, and 
considering the apology  already offered by SGS  in the final response  letter of 4 April 2019, I 
dont think a further apology is appropriate.  So I havent  included this as part of my final 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited should pay Miss H £100 for the upset caused 
to her by their poor communication when handling her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020. 
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7721558