K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject  it and end 
the agreement.
background
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in December  2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as C, a 
company. But he reported faults in January which were repaired  by C. He says in February 
he reported further faults which included  problems with the central locking system and 
windscreen washers. At this point he said he wanted to reject the vehicle. Mr A has since 
told us the vehicle has been  repaired.  But he wasnt provided with a courtesy car for the time 
it took to complete the repairs. This meant  he had to use taxis to do the school  run.
RCI issued a final response letter in which it said it was unable  to support the vehicle being 
rejected. But it said C had carried out earlier repairs and had indicated  it would  carry out 
repairs to the other issues Mr A had raised.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 January 2019 in which I indicated my 
intention to uphold  the complaint. Since then both parties have replied and have accepted  
my provisional decision. I thank both parties for their responses.  In the circumstances Ill 
simply repeat my provisional findings  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A has had to experience the inconvenience when the vehicle displayed faults. I 
accept its disappointing  and frustrating. Unfortunately  theres  no guarantee that faults wont 
occur and the risk is higher with older,  high-mileage vehicles such  as this. When  Mr A 
acquired the vehicle it was almost five years old and had covered about 90,000 miles. This is 
well above  average  for a car of this age.
Mr A acquired the vehicle  through a hire purchase agreement and under current  legislation  
RCI, as the supplier of both vehicle and finance,  is liable for the vehicle being of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  Whilst I dont apply the law directly - I do take it into account. So if I 
thought the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied  - Id expect RCI to put 
things right.
I can see Mr A reported some faults soon after acquiring the vehicle.  These were repaired  in 
January and related mostly to non-electrical items. They also seemed to be matters  which  
ought to have been revealed by an inspection at the time of supply - and so would not 
necessarily have meant the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality.
Different faults were  reported in early February  including with the central locking system. 
And Mr A indicated his wish to end the agreement. Ive seen a job sheet which shows  faults 
with the boot lock and washer motor were  identified. These items were replaced.  But it 
seems the central  locking  issue wasnt resolved  at that time and required further 
investigation.
Ref: DRN70582622Ive seen a note made of a phone call Mr A had with RCI in late February. This indicates  
Mr A said hed received  legal advice not to take the vehicle  back for repairs  to the central 
locking to be completed. And during the next few weeks  there is intermittent contact between 
RCI and Mr A but little progress appears to have  been made.
By late March it seems Mr A had decided to put his solicitors on hold. And theres evidence  
of further direct contact  between Mr A and C. As a result of this, a letter dated 24th April from 
C was sent to Mr A. This refers to various outstanding issues including the central  locking 
and invites Mr A to make  arrangements for these issues to be repaired. It seems  Mr A 
changed his mind about having these repairs done  as he took up this offer and the work  was 
done in May.  Theres a job sheet indicating the vehicle was in for repairs for over two weeks. 
It now seems  all the issues have been  repaired and Im not aware of any further faults.
Given the issues have  been resolved and the vehicle  has seemingly been functioning 
satisfactorily ever since I do not think it would  be fair and reasonable to say it should  now be 
rejected. But I do think  theres  been  a degree of impaired use which Mr A should  be 
compensated for.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.  Im ordering 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited to:
1.Refund one monthly  payment for impaired use - £136.34.
2.Pay Mr A £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7058262