K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number of 
packaged bank  accounts. He pays a monthly fee for the account which  provides several 
benefits in return.
background
Mr Ns account history  with Barclays is as follows: 
It was opened as a fee-free account  in September 1999
It was upgraded to an Additions packaged  account in July 2002
It was changed to a Higher Education  account  in July 2003
It was converted to a Student Additions  account in September  2004
It was changed to a First Additions packaged account in July 2005
Barclays migrated the First Additions  account  to a Barclays Bank Account with added 
Tech Pack in December 2015
Barclays upheld Mr Ns complaint about the sale of the First Additions account before it 
reached this service. So in my decision I havent considered that part, as Mr N hasnt 
complained about the way it has been resolved. 
It also looks as though the fee for the Student Additions account was waived. So I havent 
considered that as part of this decision,  as even if I thought something had gone wrong with 
the sale, Mr N didnt  pay any fees,  so thered be nothing for me to tell Barclays  to put right.
The change from the First Additions  account to the Barclays  Bank Account with Tech  Pack 
in December 2015 wasnt a separate sale, but a migration. This was a change to the range  
of products Barclays offered. As part of this migration Barclays  withdrew the First Additions 
account and moved  Mr N to the closest available account from its new range. As Mr N has 
complained that the migration wouldnt have happened if he hadnt he been mis-sold the 
First Additions  account, Ill also look into that part of his complaint.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays had acted  unfairly by selling  the Additions 
account or migrating  Mr Ns account to the Tech Pack.  So he didnt recommend that 
Barclays should pay Mr N any compensation. Mr N didnt agree so he asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ns complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ns complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold to him. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN76000472Ive started by thinking about whether Mr N was given a fair choice when he took his 
Additions account.
Mr N explains  that when  he told Barclays he was no longer a student, he was no longer 
eligible to hold a student account. And so he says Barclays  says he had to upgrade  his 
account to a packaged account in order to keep  the overdraft hed previously held on his 
student account.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr N has said and Ive looked  at his account  history with 
Barclays. And I agree that it does look as though he switched from a student account  to a 
packaged account. But it looks as though that was in July 2005, when Mr N upgraded to the 
First Additions  account  which Barclays has already upheld.
I cant see that Mr N had an overdraft  before he upgraded to the Additions  account in July 
2002. It looks as though  he took an overdraft at the time of the upgrade,  and held the 
Additions account and regularly  used  the overdraft until his account was changed to a 
Higher Education account in July 2003.
Barclays has already  upheld the complaint about  the change  from the Student  Additions 
account to the First Additions account,  and from the points hes raised thats what it looks  as 
though Mr N is complaining about. I havent  seen any other  points to make me think  he 
wasnt given a fair choice  about taking the Additions account in July 2002, at which  point he 
hadnt previously  had an overdraft. So its logical to conclude  that he didnt upgrade  at that 
point to keep his overdraft facility, as he didnt have one.
I dont think that Barclays  recommended the Additions account to Mr N so it didnt have to 
check if the account was suitable for him. But Barclays  had to give Mr N enough clear 
information about the packaged account  for him to decide if he wanted it. I think  its likely 
that Mr N was interested in some of the benefits of the Additions  account and chose it 
because of at least some of them. 
At the time Mr N took the Additions account  the main benefits were an interest-free overdraft 
of up to £250 with preferential  rates above that amount, and several insurance  benefits such 
as purchase protection cover and accidental  death cover.  I think Barclays likely  told Mr N 
about the main  benefits of the account, and I think the interest-free overdraft wouldve been 
appealing to him. I say this because I can see from Mr Ns account  transactions  that he 
started to use the overdraft facility as soon as he upgraded, and continued  to do so whilst he 
held the account.
I accept that Mr N he may not have used all the benefits of the Additions account, but this 
doesnt mean Barclays mis-sold it. 
Its also possible that Barclays didnt  tell Mr N everything it should have about the packaged 
account. And with hindsight, I can understand that he might  not feel the account was good  
value for money  to him. But I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr N wouldnt still 
have taken the account even if Barclays had told him more about it. 
Mr N has also complained  that his account  wouldnt have  been migrated to the Barclays 
Bank Account with Tech Pack  in December 2015, if Barclays  hadnt  mis-sold him the First 
Additions account that he held before the Tech Pack. And I can understand why Mr N has 
raised this point, especially as Barclays upheld the complaint about the First Additions 
account.
Ref: DRN76000473But in reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion, I have to take into account  Mr Ns 
complaint points, as well as what Barclays did or didnt  do, and having done  so I dont think 
Barclays has acted unfairly  by not refunding  Mr N the fees for the Tech Pack.
Mr Ns main complaint is effectively that he wasnt given  the choice about taking the First 
Additions account, because he was told he needed  it in order  to keep his overdraft.
Ive looked carefully  at copies of the letters  that Barclays  sent to Mr N around the time it 
migrated his account to the Tech Pack  in September 2015 and December 2015.
The first letter includes a prominent blue box, including the text If you dont want  to add 
Tech Pack to your Barclays  Bank Account, you can see the alternative  options overleaf. 
The reverse  of the letter gives the option of Mr N contacting Barclays to remove  the Tech 
Pack, and it doesnt  imply that the Tech Pack is mandatory in order  to have or maintain an 
overdraft. 
The second  letter,  sent just after the account was migrated, includes the wording You can 
remove Tech Pack  or add other  Feature Store packs  at any time. So again, I think  this letter 
made it clear  that Mr N had a choice about whether to continue  with the Tech  Pack. And I 
think its likely he chose to keep it.
Having considered everything  I think Barclays  made it clear  before it migrated Mr Ns 
account, and after it had done so, that he didnt have to accept  the addition  of the Tech  Pack 
to his account if he didnt want it. I appreciate Mr N might not have read the migration letters 
Barclays sent him, but it wouldnt be fair for me to say Barclays  is at fault for that.
I want to reassure Mr N that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having  done so I dont think  Barclays  mis-sold 
the Additions account, and I dont think it needs  to further refund the fees for the Tech Pack.  
So I dont  think Barclays owes Mr N any more money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600047