K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way that his home  insurance claim for water  damage was dealt 
with by Hiscox Insurance  Company Limited.
background
In early 2018 Mr B was carrying  out development works to his property. When  his builders 
stripped out the area underneath an external staircase, damp was found in the timbers.  Mr B 
submitted a claim to Hiscox in respect of water  damage. Hiscox appointed a surveyor who 
visited the property  on 19 March and then reviewed  the claim and in particular a quote  from 
Mr Bs builders. Hiscox accepted the claim and agreed in principle in late April 2018 to pay 
the cost of repairing the damage.  
But Mr Bs builders had also quoted  to install a cavity drainage  membrane damp proofing 
system with a pump and alarm. Hiscox didnt agree to pay for this  in particular its surveyor 
said that that sort of system is normally only needed  in respect of underground areas like 
basements. As no damp  proofing had been in place before, Hiscox said that paying for such  
a system would amount to betterment. It paid Mr B the costs of the repairs but not of the 
damp proofing. Mr B also complained that Hiscox had delayed in replying to his quote  and 
that he had had the damp proofing  system  installed by the time it got back  to him.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that it was not reasonable to expect Hiscox to 
pay for the costly damp proofing  system  proposed. Its surveyor  had advised a system of 
damp proofing the steps which appeared to be reasonable.
Mr B replied  that he hadnt been  advised  about the damp proofing  to the steps  by Hiscoxs 
surveyor, nor had he been compensated for it. He reiterated that Hiscox had so delayed  in 
making a decision  about his claim  that he had gone ahead  with the work including the damp 
proofing.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst I agreed  that Hiscox  didnt  need  to pay 
for the cavity drainage membrane damp proofing system, it should pay for the limited damp 
proofing recommended by its surveyor.
Mr B advised that he will accept the decision, as long as Hiscox provide a fair and 
reasonable settlement offer.
Hiscox didnt accept my decision. It said it believed that the costs  associated with rectifying  
the cracked and open joints between slabs and the failed  lead flashing  should be paid by the 
customer, as these are a result of wear  and tear which is specifically excluded under the 
policy terms. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
Ref: DRN74548412damp proofing
Hiscox has pointed out that installing damp  proofing, where  there was none there  before,  
would be betterment i.e. Mr B would be getting an improvement to his property which he 
hadnt had before. I agree with that  normally the policy provides for a payment for damage, 
it doesnt provide  for what would be preventative work. But the exception to this is where  
such work is necessary  to make an effective repair. And looking at Hiscoxs  surveyors report  
its clear that although he didnt  recommend payment  for the cavity  membrane pump  and 
alarm system, he did recommend that the following work be carried  out:
The priority should be to prevent  any further rainwater ingress through  the external 
staircase. To help achieve this, it will be necessary  to remove the existing paving  slabs  fixed 
to the steps and scrape off any adhesive  to expose  the concrete beneath. We would also 
recommend that the lead flashing  is removed or rolled back  prior to inspecting the exposed 
concrete steps.  Any open joints between the risers/treads and flank  walls  should then be 
filled with a waterproof mastic or cementitious fillet detail. It would also be advantageous to 
apply a liquid damp proof  membrane to the concrete staircase. After these works are 
complete, the existing  lead flashing should be rolled  back or ideally replaced. It would then 
be necessary to re-lay  the existing  paving slabs (or supply new if necessary) to the staircase 
which should be fixed using a solid bed of waterproof adhesive.  We would  also recommend 
that the junction between  the risers/treads  and flank walls is sealed with a waterproof mastic  
to provide extra protection.
If the above works are carried out properly,  this should prevent the rainwater ingress and 
there should be no need to install a cavity drainage membrane system  internally.
I have seen no indication  that Hiscox agreed to fund the damp  proofing  proposed  by its 
surveyor. He recommended that the above damp  proofing be applied to the external steps to 
remedy a defect in them. I take it from that that the limited damp proofing recommended by 
the surveyor was needed to provide an effective repair. As Hiscoxs payment does not cover 
this recommended repair I propose  to require it to pay a sum to Mr B as settlement, 
assessed by its surveyor,  equivalent to the cost of the above  repairs.
delay
The matter  was discussed between Hiscox and Mr Bs broker  about  a month after the visit of 
the surveyor. This was on 17 April,  at that time Hiscoxs claim handler wanted to check some 
information before following it up. The broker had to chase this up and the offer wasnt  
received until 29 April.
Mr B refers  also to unacceptable  service  by his broker during this time,  but I have seen no 
indication that Hiscox  followed  up the visit by its surveyor  until Mr Bs broker called it on 
17 April. I take into account  that Mr B was having  general development work carried  out to 
his property and that he (or his broker)  could have chased the matter up sooner. But I dont 
think it reasonable to expect Hiscox  to pay for the cost of the damp proofing system Mr B 
had installed.  For its part in the delay  during  this period I propose to require Hiscox to pay 
£50 compensation .
Whilst I understand that Hiscox is now saying that it wont pay for the work Ive identified  
above because  it relates to maintenance issues I dont think thats  the case. The work  Mr B 
was quoted for in so far as it concerns the outside  steps allows to:
Ref: DRN74548413Strip back finishes  to expose leaks.
Lift and relay slabs: 
Cart away  surplus materials:
Hiscoxs surveyors  report, as Ive quoted  it above allows for the joints  to be filled with a 
waterproof mastic and to apply a liquid damp proof  membrane  to the concrete  staircase.  The 
slabs to be re-laid using  a solid bed of waterproof adhesive  and the junction  between the 
risers/treads and flank walls  is to be sealed  with a waterproof mastic  to provide extra 
protection (my italics).
Those appear to me to be repairs that are for damp  proofing and for the avoidance of doubt 
Hiscox should assess the cost of the work  to strip back, and re-lay  the slabs using the 
waterproof materials Ive noted. Since Mr Bs quote doesnt allow for the replacement of any 
slabs or lead flashing, Hiscox doesnt  have  to pay for any replacement of those  items.  But if 
any incidental repairs are done to the joints, I think that would be part of the damp proofing 
since they are to be filled with the waterproof  mastic.
So I remain  of the view that Hiscox should  pay a settlement  equivalent to the cost of the 
damp proofing repairs. My provisional  findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited  to:
pay to Mr B a settlement equivalent to the cost of the damp proofing repairs  to the 
staircase recommended and assessed  by its surveyor.  It should  add simple  interest* 
to such settlement at the rate of 8% per year from when Mr B paid his builders until 
the date it pays  Mr B.
pay Mr B £50 compensation.
*Hiscox Insurance  Company Limited  is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax 
from any interest paid. Should  Mr B request it, Hiscox should  provide him with a certificate  
showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7454841