K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd called him seven times in one day and when he answered  
the calls it was silent. 
background 
Mr Ws credit card account is with NewDay. He hadnt made  a payment to the account since 
November 2018  and so NewDay was trying  to get in contact. Mr W says he called NewDay 
on 15 January 2019  to complain about the calls he was receiving  because  when he 
answered they were  silent. 
Although Mr W waited  for an outcome to his complaint none  arrived,  so he complained about 
the length of time it was taking and asked our office  to get involved as eight weeks had 
passed. Our investigator  made enquiries  with NewDay who confirmed it was in the process 
of issuing a response  upholding the complaint and offering £20 compensation which it paid 
to his account. Mr W didnt think this was fair and so asked us to look into the matter  further.  
Our investigator concluded the offer made was fair; the records  provided by NewDay 
showed it had called  him three times on 12 January 2019  and four times on 15 January 
2019. And although Mr W says he has lost bonus at work because of answering  the calls,  
our investigator didnt think NewDay was responsible  for that. Mr W disagrees and doesnt 
believe he has been compensated  sufficiently  for what happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that NewDay has 
already fairly resolved this complaint.  
Mr W is responsible  for maintaining payments to his credit card account. I understand 
NewDay hadnt received a payment from Mr W since November 2018. And so it had been 
trying to contact him about that. Its records suggest  it has been writing  to Mr W and trying to 
call him. 
I can see from the dialler records that Mr W was called three times on 12 January and four 
times on 15 January.  Although not seven calls in one day it is seven calls in close  proximity.  
NewDay has explained its automated dialler will place a call with an agent  once  the call is 
answered, but that on occasion all its agents will be busy. That goes someway to explain 
why some of the calls Mr W answered  were silent. It is unfortunate all of the agents  were 
busy when Mr W did answer the calls and I think £20 compensation is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience he was put to.
Mr W believes he is entitled to more, particularly  as his employer has stopped his bonus for 
four months for answering calls. I dont think I could fairly find that the fault of NewDay.  It 
couldnt reasonably have  known whether  or not Mr Ws employer allowed personal calls. 
And Im mindful it was Mr Ws choice  to answer the calls when he didnt have to.   
I understand NewDay has recently  sent Mr W and income and expenditure form as I would 
expect it to do if a customer is in financial difficulties. It isnt clear  from the information  I have  
why Mr W hadnt made  a payment. But both parties will need to work together  to come to a 
mutually acceptable repayment arrangement. 
Ref: DRN72007902Finally, I note that Mr W is unhappy with the amount of time it took NewDay to reply  to his 
complaint. As the investigator explained complaint handling, of itself,  isnt something we 
investigate. But I would  explain that businesses are generally given eight weeks  to 
investigate a complaint  and if a final response isnt sent in that time, referral  rights should be 
given to our service. Mr W contacted  us as soon as the eight  week period was up and so he 
referred his complaint, as was his right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that NewDay  Ltd has already fairly resolved this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7200790