K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that RAC  Financial Services Ltd didnt  properly administer  the insurers 
requests for information from Mr P. This resulted in his insurance  being cancelled, costs  
incurred in resolving  this matter and distress  and inconvenience. 
background 
Mr P has had his motor vehicle insurance through RAC for a few years.  The policy  was 
renewed in February  2018. However,  on review  the insurer  noted  the date of Mr Ps birth 
was incorrect and his was down as both the main driver and as an additional  driver  being the 
spouse of the main  driver. 
In September  2018 the insurer  asked  RAC  to obtain validation documents from Mr P  a 
copy of his driving licence and the V5. It also asked RAC to issue a 7-day cancellation  
warning. Despite several chasers by the insurer, RAC didnt actually make a request for this 
information until 17 October 2018.  By this time Mr P was due to go on holiday and as he 
couldnt find his V5 he told RAC  he would provide this when he returned. But RAC didnt 
pass on this information  to the insurer and his insurance was subsequently cancelled.  
Mr P was notified of the cancellation  by text, which he received when he was on holiday.     
Mr P complained as this caused him distress and inconvenience. He complains  he also 
incurred additional  costs in using public  transport and making calls to try and resolve this 
matter. And he found that quotes for insurance had increased significantly as a result of 
having to declare the cancellation.  
RAC didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr P brought  a complaint against the insurer  and as a 
result of that the insurer agreed to withdraw the cancellation  being recorded as an enforced 
calculation and so it isnt something  Mr P now needs to declare. During that complaint 
process Mr P also asked us to consider his complaint against RAC.  On sending its file it 
agreed it should have done  things better and offered £150 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded this was a fair and reasonable offer. But Mr P didnt agree. He 
said he had incurred around £85 in public  transport expenses  and around  £20 in calls. He 
also said he would have  been charged significantly more for his insurance. Our investigator 
asked for evidence of his additional costs and of insuring his car. But Mr P couldnt  provide 
any evidence and confirmed he decided against insuring his car due to the cost.  Our 
investigator was satisfied in the absence of the additional costs, the offer was still fair. 
Mr P doesnt  believe RACs behaviour is acceptable.  He doesnt believe the compensation 
offered is sufficient and said that he had premium taken despite the policy  being  cancelled. 
Our investigator looked into this and explained he had been paying in arrears so he had only 
paid for the eight  months cover  he received.  Mr P hasnt disputed this and the matter  has 
now been referred to me for determination. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find the offer made by 
RAC to be fair and reasonable. I explain why below. 
Ref: DRN77093392There is no longer a dispute that RAC should have done much better than it did in obtaining 
Mr Ps details  for the insurer and not passing on that he was on holiday and so unable to 
comply. So all that remains  for me to decide  is whether  or not the offer of £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P has referred to incurring additional costs in light of the consequences  of his insurance  
being cancelled.  But I can only make an award for any losses Mr P has actually suffered. As 
Mr P hasnt insured  his car, he hasnt  incurred the costs of paying premiums  over and above 
what he would have,  had the policy not been cancelled. Because  he hasnt paid additional 
costs, I make no award for that. 
Mr P says he incurred costs in making calls about  this matter and by having  to take public 
transport to get about. I accept its entirely possible that some costs have been incurred. But 
it is equally possible none have  been   for example, the calls he made  could have been 
included in any minutes or phone plan he has, so he might not have incurred  any additional 
cost at all in contacting RAC about  this matter. And although  Mr P says he has paid for taxis, 
buses and trains etc, he hasnt provided any actual evidence of doing  so. And I have  to bear 
in mind that there would  have been costs for running his car had his insurance been in 
place. Without  evidence of what he has paid, I cant establish that he has suffered a financial 
loss or a loss over and above what he would  have been paying had he been using his car. In 
the absence of any persuasive  evidence of his costs, Im not persuaded I can fairly make an 
award against RAC for this. 
However, I accept it was distressing and inconvenient for Mr P to find out on holiday that his 
insurance had been  cancelled. This is particularly so as hed notified RAC of his trip and the 
necessity of having to locate the V5 on his return.  Had RAC done  what any reasonable 
person would expect  it to do, Mr P wouldnt have  been put to the time and trouble he has 
been, to get this matter resolved. And I agree with Mr P that customers  should  expect  more,  
particularly with something as important as motor insurance. So its right that Mr P is 
compensated for that. Having  considered this matter carefully, Im satisfied £150 is a fair 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience  this matter caused.  
I understand RAC has already sent a cheque to Mr P for this. I dont know if he has cashed  it 
yet or not. I leave  it to him to decide  whether, on reflection, he may now want  to accept it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that RAC Financial Services Ltd has made  a fair 
offer in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709339