K821x#15complaint
Miss I complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave her loans that she couldnt afford.
background
Miss I took out a total of four loans  with Uncle Buck between June 2015 and May 2016.  
Miss I fell into difficulties repaying the final loan and entered  into a repayment plan.
Miss I says she had so many loans  with other lenders at the time that she was borrowing 
from one lender to repay another. She says that she had defaults on her credit file. She 
believes that if Uncle Buck had carried  out adequate checks, it wouldnt have agreed to 
make the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
said that the information on the credit check together with the amount of requests for loans  
should have alerted it to the fact that Miss I had difficulty with her finances  and was 
borrowing to repay  credit.  So she said that Uncle Buck should refund all interest  and charges 
that Miss I paid on loans  2-4, with interest  on the refund. And she said it should  remove any 
negative information  about the loans from Miss Is credit file.
Uncle Buck  disagreed with the adjudicators view. But it offered to refund the interest  and 
charges that Miss I paid on the final loan.  Miss I didnt accept Uncle  Bucks  offer,  so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether Miss 
I could afford  to pay back each loan before  it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss I was borrowing, and her lending history, 
but there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loans. It asked 
her for details of her regular monthly  income  and expenditure. And it carried  out a credit 
check before  each loan.  
When Miss I applied  for loan 1, she told Uncle Buck  her monthly  take-home  pay was £1,700. 
And she listed her regular monthly  outgoings  as £590. So on the basis of the information  
Miss I provided, shed have comfortably  been able to afford the repayment on the loan.
The credit check that Uncle Buck carried out before agreeing to the loan showed that Miss I 
had a default dated 17 February 2015  for £424.  On balance at this stage in the lending  
relationship I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck to rely on the information given. The 
default was nearly  four months  old and Miss I was asking for £100  loan over 3 months with 
the highest instalment of £44.72. I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to give Miss I this 
loan without any further checking.
Ref: DRN72771622Miss I repaid  the loan early but didnt say why she was paying it off early. There was then a 
gap of nearly four months before Miss I was approved for loan 2. However, between  loan 1 
and loan 2 Miss I had seven applications  for a loan declined. Uncle Buck  has said that this 
can be for a number of reasons not all of which indicate financial difficulty. However,  I think 
that Uncle Buck should have asked Miss I more detailed questions  about why she needed to 
borrow because the income and outgoing figures she had given to Uncle Buck suggested 
that she had a significant level of disposable  income.
I have taken into account Uncle Bucks point that the loans may have been declined 
because of the timing  of the requests or because they were  duplicates but I dont have any 
evidence that this was the case or that Uncle Buck satisfied itself that this was an 
administrative issue. Looking at Miss Is bank statements for this period, the repeated 
applications were  indicative of the difficulty Miss I was in as she was unable to meet her 
outgoings without  borrowing.
The credit check undertaken before loan 2 showed a further default dated  4.June.2015 for 
£79. I think that the results of the credit  check ought  to have alerted Uncle  Buck to the 
likelihood that Miss I was dependent on short-term lending given the additional default for a 
relatively small amount.  And I think it should, as a minimum, have asked her specifically 
about any other short-term lending commitments  she had outstanding at the time. If it had 
done so, I think  its likely that it would have discovered that she couldnt  afford  to take on 
further borrowing. So I think Uncle Buck should have declined  her application.
Loan 3 was for £150 and was taken out around  a month after loan 2 was repaid. Miss I 
applied for a loan 5 days after loan 2 was funded and this was declined.  In the period 
between loans 2 and 3 Miss I had 9 applications for a loan declined.  Again, when Miss I 
applied for loan 3, I think the information  shown on Uncle  Bucks  credit search ought to have 
suggested to it that it was likely that Miss I was dependent on short-term  borrowing, and that 
her borrowing was unsustainable. There was a further default dated  3 July 2015  for £124.
And I think that this should have prompted  the business to ask her about other outstanding 
short-term loans, I again think it would have discovered that she already had outstanding 
loans and was not responsibly managing  her finances. 
Miss I asked for a further loan the same day that loan 3 was funded  which was declined.  
Miss I asked for loan 4 the same  day that loan 3 was repaid. It was for £300 which  was twice 
as much as the previous loan. Although there was a telephone conversation with Miss I 
before this loan I dont  think  this was enough  to say proportionate checks  were completed.  
What Miss I was telling Uncle Buck about her finances was at odds with her borrowing 
pattern and the information from its own credit checks. The credit check  for this loan showed  
a further default  dated 14 January  2016.  
I think that if Uncle Buck had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks when  
Miss I applied for loans  2, 3 and 4, it would  have realised that it was unlikely that Miss I was 
borrowing sustainably. In other words, it was unlikely that shed be able to afford  to repay  the 
loans out of her normal income and savings, without  having  to borrow  further. And as a 
responsible lender, Uncle Buck shouldnt  have made loans 2, 3 or 4.
Ref: DRN72771623putting things right
To put things right, Uncle  Buck should:
refund all interest  and charges Miss I paid on all loans  2, 3 and 4;
add interest to those  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about the refunded  loans from Miss Is credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss I a certificate  showing how much its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7277162