K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her a payment protection policy  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs N took out PPI by post in 1996 to protect her mortgage repayments. The policy  covered 
her for unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. Mrs N disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs N says she felt under  pressure to take out PPI and was told she had to have  it to be 
accepted for the mortgage. But at the point she applied for her mortgage she opted not to 
take PPI. Her mortgage offer was issued, without  PPI, on 10 April 1996. This suggests to me 
Mrs N wasnt told it was mandatory,  she was given a choice and Nationwide  made  its 
lending offer without  her having bought PPI. Five days later the third party  arranging  Mrs Ns 
mortgage asked  Nationwide  to send out a PPI application form. Mrs N then completed and 
returned this, selecting  just unemployment cover.
So overall, I think the balance of evidence  shows Nationwide made  Mrs N aware that she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that after making her initial decision  she changed 
her mind  and chose to take it. I can understand she might not remember this given how long 
ago the sale was. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for 
Mrs N. But it did have to make sure she got all the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  she 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if she had received better  information.  I say this 
because:
Mrs N was eligible for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mrs N wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, 
such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better  information  about 
the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed  her decision to buy it. 
Ref: DRN75475672Mrs N said her parents would have helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. The PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to any work  benefit, allowing  Mrs N to protect  a lump 
sum redundancy payment  giving increased  financial stability  at a difficult  time. Given 
the consequences for Mrs N of defaulting on a large and long term debt secured 
against her home, I think the PPI would have  been useful for her if she lost her job.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mrs N but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And she could cancel it without 
further cost if at any stage she no longer wanted it.
It follows I dont think Mrs N has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7547567