K820x#14complaint
Miss D and Mr M have complained about the standard of service  they received from a 
representative of Stonebridge Mortgage  Solutions Ltd in relation to the arrangement of a 
mortgage. Miss D has dealt with the complaint throughout.
background
Miss D and Mr M were first-time buyers who were purchasing  a new-build property. Through 
the selling  agents they were introduced to a broker from Stonebridge, who arranged  a 
mortgage for them.
Miss D has complained about a number of issues arising from this:
lack of transparency  about the relationship  between the estate agent and the 
mortgage broker  Miss D was surprised to see the broker in the estate agents  office  
when she collected the keys;
fees charged by the broker;
delays in completing the purchase  due to discrepancies with the address  on the 
property;
the mortgage arranged was the same as one she could have  arranged  herself 
without paying  fees and where  shed have had a £1,000  cashback from the lender.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
the fees were  clearly  explained in the documentation provided  at the time. He also wasnt 
persuaded Stonebridge  was at fault for the delays in completion. 
Miss D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  Ive summarised  the 
background to the complaint in rather less detail than its been presented. No discourtesy  is 
intended by this. In my role as an ombudsman Im required to concentrate  on what I consider 
to be the material  issues in the complaint. Im allowed to do this by our enabling  legislation.
Our rules allow us to consider complaints against mortgage brokers  where the complaint  is 
about something which is ancillary  to a regulated activity  in this case the arrangement  of a 
mortgage. So thats what Ill be focussing on in relation to this complaint.
This means  that I wont  be commenting on the relationship between Stonebridge and the 
estate agent, the location  of the broker  in the estate  agents office or anything relating to 
conveyancing. These  dont  relate  to regulated activities and so arent covered by our rules. 
Ive reviewed the documentation  provided  by Stonebridge. From this Im satisfied that the 
fees Stonebridge was to receive for its services from both Miss D and Mr M and from the 
lender are explained  in the Initial Disclosure  Document and the Key Facts Illustration. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded there was any lack of transparency about this.
This was a Help to Buy transaction. Although Miss D and Mr M could  have gone  direct to the 
lender for a mortgage, the lender wouldnt  have  been involved in the equity loan, which  is 
Ref: DRN71466462provided by a different business.  In the circumstances, Miss D and Mr M decided  to apply 
through Stonebridge, which could also liaise with the Help to Buy equity loan provider. It was 
always open to Miss D and Mr M to go to the lender direct if theyd wanted to and Ive seen 
nothing in the evidence to suggest  they were  prevented from doing so by Stonebridge. It was 
their choice to apply through Stonebridge.
As far as the address is concerned, its correct that, for new build properties, Royal Mail 
allocates an address  to the property. Although the address needed to be changed on the 
mortgage offer, Im not persuaded  this was the cause of completion being  delayed beyond 
the date when Miss D and Mr M had to vacate their previous property. 
The mortgage offer was issued at the beginning of March 2018.  It was the solicitors 
responsibility to inform the lender  of any change in the address from that shown on the 
mortgage offer. The report sent to Miss D and Mr M by their solicitors prior to exchange  of 
contracts is dated 23 May 2018 and completion didnt take place until the end of May 2018.  
This suggests to me that the delay in progressing the purchase after the mortgage  offer was 
issued in March  2018 was not the fault of Stonebridge but was as a result of delays  by the 
developer or in relation  to the conveyancing   neither of which are issues I can consider 
here.
Buying a property  can be a very stressful experience. I do appreciate  that this purchase 
didnt go through  as quickly as Miss D and Mr M wanted. But overall Im not persuaded that 
Stonebridge is responsible for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7146646