K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about advice she was given by BBT Financial Services  (BBT)  to take out 
a lifetime mortgage with Prudential.
Represented by a family member,  Mrs B says the advice was unsuitable and she was 
pressured into taking  it.  She now asks to be put into the position she would likely be in were 
it not for the advice  and for the mortgage to be cleared at no personal cost.
background
In 2008 Mrs B dealt  with an adviser from BBT.  She  was recommended to take a lifetime  
mortgage for £150,000 and invest the proceeds (£149,000) into a Sterling high allocation  
bond.
Sterling has confirmed that Mrs B took regular withdrawals from the bond, including  a partial 
encashment of around £70,000 in October 2010,  and a final encashment of around £74,000 
to close the bond in March 2011.  In  total Mrs B received £160,313.40 from the bond.
I understand the encashed funds were  re-invested, but the subsequent  investments have 
been subject to a separate complaint which I am not looking at here.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and recommended that it shouldnt be 
upheld.  In summary, she said:
The mortgage was suitable for Mrs Bs circumstances as it required no payments to 
maintain it and so was affordable.
The investment  into the Sterling bond provided  Mrs B with additional income whilst 
allowing her to stay in her home.
The Sterling investment performed relatively  well before  she switched to another 
investment.
She acknowledged BBT had given Mrs B incorrect  information  about early repayment 
charges, but if it had been explained properly she thinks Mrs B would still have 
proceeded.
There was no response to the investigators view from BBT, but Mrs B disagreed.  Her 
representative responded with detailed submissions, but in summary said:
The initial contact from BBT was unsolicited and she had not wanted a lifetime 
mortgage.
Mrs B was pressured into taking the mortgage when visited by three  men: the BBT 
adviser, another employee of BBT,  and a solicitor.
Mrs B was never comfortable with the product and made a number of enquiries about 
repayment  to which she received false assurances.
Although withdrawals were taken,  it was not because they were needed.
The key concern is not about meeting the repayments, but rather the erosion of 
capital in the property.
Mrs B was lied to, and given false information  about repayment charges.
Mrs B was a vulnerable target  who was exploited by BBT to generate commission.
Mrs Bs representative has asked that the lifetime mortgage be cancelled at no cost, and 
with no loss to the equity/value of Mrs Bs property.
Ref: DRN76433692The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind, and so Mrs B has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  afresh by an ombudsman  and for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
I understand the issues central to this complaint, and consider there  are two main points for 
me to focus upon in reaching a decision:
was the lifetime mortgage  suitable for Mrs Bs recorded needs  at the time?
what is the impact of incorrect information  about repayment charges?
was the lifetime mortgage recommendation suitable?
Mrs Bs representative has explained that Mrs B didnt want  or need the mortgage, and that 
her main  concern was not repayment, but rather the erosion of equity  in the property  as the 
interest accrued  and compounded.  I understand these concerns, but to decide what was 
suitable Ive primarily  considered what  was known at the time.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments  about  being pressured to make  the application.   I can 
appreciate that as a widow in retirement  Mrs B was potentially vulnerable.  And I note the 
fact that she was visited by three men to discuss  her requirements.  But Im not persuaded 
that she was unduly  pressured to take out the mortgage.
I note one of the men was a solicitor, but more importantly, the transaction didnt all happen 
immediately, but rather over a period of months.  There were  fact find documents completed,  
recommendations with reasons set out, the application made to the mortgage provider, and 
consideration of the mortgage  offer before everything was finalised.  Mrs  B had the 
opportunity to, and did, raise queries  with the adviser.  This suggests to me that Mrs B could 
have sought advice or declined to proceed had she wished  to do so.
So Ive focussed  more on the contents of the fact find and recommendations to decide  
whether it was suitable for Mrs Bs circumstances.  In the fact find document completed at 
the time it said:
[Mrs B] wishes  to realise capital from property to invest for income.  She  has no dependants 
and is happy to roll up interest  in to property value.
Whilst a lifetime mortgage may not be suitable  for all consumers, equity release can be an 
appropriate method  of generating income for people who wish to remain  living in their home 
(as an alternative to downsizing).
The adviser recorded that Mrs B had a modest income from pension and other investments.  
But the need or desire to increase income  is a legitimate one.  Although Mrs Bs 
representative says she didnt need the income,  the fact she took regular withdrawals  from 
the Sterling bond investment suggests she did want access to funds.
Ref: DRN76433693The benefit  of the mortgage Mrs B took out was that no repayments are needed  to maintain 
the mortgage until it is repaid.  This  does  mean  that the interest payments accumulate and 
are compounded,  and as such does increase the capital to be repaid substantially as time 
passes.  But  this doesnt necessarily make  the recommendation unsuitable.
I also appreciate that Mrs Bs representative  has expressed concerns about  the erosion of 
equity within  the property, and it potentially leaving Mrs B exposed  if there  were  future  needs  
such as care fees.  But Mrs B received the proceeds  of the mortgage  and invested them   
both providing  an income  and a guaranteed capital investment.  The  Sterling bond  provided 
positive returns,  and although  re-invested  at a later date,  the subsequent transactions  dont 
form part of this complaint  and Mrs B has been compensated for those.
I appreciate the capital  invested has reduced, but that is due to the substantial withdrawals 
made by Mrs B, which  she chose to take and has had the benefit from.
So given the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the lifetime mortgage  was unsuitable for 
Mrs B, and dont feel it would be fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs B for funds which 
she has received and had the benefit from.  Particularly, as Im satisfied the documentation  
was clear how the borrowing would increase over time due to the accumulated  interest, and 
set out in a clear illustration for Mrs B.
mis-information about early repayment charges
It is clear that at the outset Mrs B asked  about early repayment charges and was given the 
incorrect information by BBT.  So its necessary for me to assess  the likely impact of that 
upon Mrs B.
The mortgage documentation does make it clear  that there would be early repayment 
charges and sets out illustrative calculations  of how it would work.  This doesnt  override 
BBTs obligation to answer Mrs B accurately.  The BBT adviser  confirmed in writing on more  
than one occasion that there would be no charges for early repayment  and this is clearly 
wrong.
Ive considered the impact of this mis-information,  but overall do not consider it sufficient for 
me to uphold the complaint.  Ive  seen nothing to suggest Mrs B has tried, or wanted, to 
repay the mortgage early, and given the recorded purpose of the mortgage, Mrs B clearly  
wanted to remain  in her home, and was looking at a long term plan.  So although she had 
asked about repayment charges, had the adviser correctly referred her to the terms that 
were set out in the mortgage documentation, Im persuaded she would have continued to 
proceed with the mortgage in any event.
I also note that Mrs B received a letter from the BBT adviser in 2014 stating that any early  
redemption charge would be paid by it in the event  she redeemed the mortgage.  But Ive 
seen nothing to show Mrs B acted upon that or had tried to redeem the mortgage  in 
response.
I realise that Mrs B will be disappointed with my conclusion, and I empathise  with the points 
she makes.   However I cant  reasonably conclude that the mortgage was an unsuitable 
recommendation given her circumstances at the time.  And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for me to uphold  the complaint and award  compensation  when  Mrs B has had the benefit  of 
the mortgage proceeds in line with what her recorded objectives were.
Ref: DRN76433694I must reassure Mrs B that Ive considered everything impartially in reaching my decision, 
and hope that she recognises  the reasons for my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint 
against BBT Financial Services.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7643369