K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about an outstanding debt of £5,104.49 he owes  as a result of the 
termination of his Hire Agreement by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.  He would 
like the debt written off.
background
Mr G says he took out a Hire Agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) with effect from 11 May 2018  for a van.  He says he was made  redundant soon after 
taking out the agreement.
Mr G says he paid a deposit of £900  which was the equivalent of three months hire. He feels 
he returned the van in perfect condition. And says he only drove  about  30 miles .So he 
doesnt understand why he is being  charged  £5,104.49.
VWFS said Mr G didnt  make the first three  payments  due so it sent a default notice advising 
him to clear outstanding balance of £900 by 8 September 2018.  But Mr G didnt do so. It also 
advised that unless Mr G made the payment it would take it that he had repudiated his 
contract. And in that case it would enforce its rights under the agreement.
As Mr G didnt  make the outstanding £900 payment or subsequent  monthly  payments due 
for September and October 2018  VWFS wrote  to him on 27 October 2018 to say it was 
terminating his agreement.
VWFS said it repossessed and sold the car at auction. As a result  it calculated the 
outstanding amount payable as £5,104.49.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He broke down the sum owing for Mr G to 
understand. This showed the total settlement amount (£15,652.49) minus  the vehicle sale 
(£10,800) plus the agents fees (£252) which left an outstanding debt of £5,104.49
He noted that Mr G had been in touch with VWFS  to try to find a solution but as no payments 
had been made since  Mr G got the van, and as Mr G made no offer of payment he felt 
VWFS followed its business process correctly  in cancelling the Hire Agreement.
He explained  that Mr Gs £900 deposit had been used to get the van. However  VWFS dont 
use deposits to offset  outstanding balances.
VWFS accepted this view but Mr G didnt.  He said he wasnt happy that the van had been  
sold at auction  for a lower price than he had paid for it. 
Our adjudicator noted Mr Gs point but said he couldnt comment  on the auction  sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels strongly  about this so I do appreciate he is going  to be disappointed that I have  
reached the same conclusion as our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN74535512There is no dispute that Mr G took out a Hire Agreement with VWFS, that he didnt  make  any 
repayments or that VWFS ended Mr Gs contract  recovering  and selling the van at auction.
I have looked  at the contract this Mr G signed. This makes it clear under clause 7 that VWFS 
can terminate the contract, after written notice, if payments arent made.  Ive seen copies  of 
the letters VWFS sent Mr G about  the outstanding payments. These  included  late payment 
and notice of sums  in arrears letters in August 2018  and notice in a letter  dated  20 August 
2018 that VWFS would terminate the agreement  unless  Mr G paid the outstanding amount 
owing. On 27 October 2018  VWFS wrote to advise it was ending  Mr Gs contract as no 
payment had been received.
I think VWFS was entitled to end the contract  on the basis  no payments were made.  And it 
followed the correct  process by writing to Mr G to give notice of this.
Ive also looked  at VWFSs  customer notes.  I can see from those that Mr G advised VWFS 
that he wasnt working on 1 August 2018  at which point some  options  to sell or pay what  
he could  were discussed  with him. VWFS  then contacted Mr G on 18 August 2018 as it 
hadnt heard  back from him after his first phone  call. At that point Mr G said he had too much 
going on to contact VWFS. 
On 17 September  2018 Mr G had discussions with VWFS about  options over terminating his 
contract. But on 20 September 2018 when VWFS called Mr G with a settlement figure Mr G 
didnt want to progress  this. He said he had a new job starting  and preferred to pay the 
arrears off. There  seems to have been no further  contact from Mr G and so VWFS ended his 
contract in October  2018. 
I do think that VWFS made attempts to give Mr G settlement figures  to help him. And I think  
its unfortunate Mr G didnt follow through his contact  with VWFS. He might  have been able 
to reach  a better  solution  than having  his van repossessed and sold.  But as Mr G neither 
made any payments  nor followed through the settlement process I dont  think  VWFS were 
unreasonable in ending  his contract.
In terms of the debt owing I have looked  at clause 8.2 of the contract. That states if VWFS  
end the contract  Mr G would have  to pay all unpaid rentals and any other payments due. 
This included the total amount of rentals payable under the primary hiring period which 
means the full term of the contract.  
I have checked  the sum that VWFS  has charged  and I can confirm that it is a correct  
calculation of the rental payments owing  minus the sale of the van but with the costs  of 
agents fees added on. On that basis  I think the amount owing is correct.
I appreciate Mr G is disappointed that VWFS sold the van at auction for less than he was 
paying through his hire contract. As I understand it the van didnt sell at the first auction so 
had to be relisted. Its unfortunate it didnt achieve  a higher sale price but VWFS  has 
evidenced the amount it achieved at auction  so it is correct.
As I dont feel that VWFS has done anything wrong I cant reasonably ask it to waive  the 
outstanding debt as Mr G would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN74535513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7453551