K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Close Brothers  Limited (trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance) is 
wrong to hold her liable to repay  car finance.  
background
In July 2018 Mrs D found  some  paperwork  relating to a conditional sale agreement  (CSA) 
with Close  Brothers that had been  taken out in her name. She says she has no knowledge of 
this agreement. She contacted Close Brothers  and it said she owed nearly £3,000 for a car 
supplied about  a year earlier. Mrs D believes an ex partner took out this finance and 
acquired the car - as she thinks  he obtained  credit in her name  without her knowledge  in the 
past. 
Close Brothers says the CSA is in Mrs Ds name  and her address and other  personal  details  
are correct. The dealer  told Close Brothers an unaccompanied woman took out the CSA - as 
far as the salesperson can recall.  But the dealer didnt ask for, and wasnt able to provide, 
any additional proof of identity.  Close  Brothers  told Mrs D there  was nothing else it could do 
and suggested  she contact the police.  
Mrs D reported the matter to Action Fraud but she hasnt heard anything further. She says 
this debt is affecting her credit status because the account is now in default and thats 
stopping her from getting a mortgage.  She wants Close  Brothers to accept she didnt borrow 
this money and rectify her credit file.   
Our investigator looked at the evidence  and thinks the complaint should  be upheld.  She says 
the CSA was signed electronically so theres no signature to compare with Mrs Ds - 
a third party could  have signed  the agreement;
the direct  debit was set up with Mrs Ds bank account details at first but the details 
were changed  afterwards and none of the payments  made towards this CSA came  
from Mrs Ds current  account;
Close Brothers cant provide any information  about the person named on any drive -
away insurance provided on the day of supply;
the contact details Close Brothers  have dont include  Mrs Ds email  address or her 
phone number and verifications for changes made  to the account were sent to an 
email address belonging to a third party;
the customer contact  notes supplied by Close Brothers show  the only caller was 
male - until Mrs D got in touch in July 2018  to say she knew nothing about  the CSA;
theres no suggestion that Mrs D ever authorised  someone  else to discuss  this 
account or act on her behalf;
Close Brothers checked and the car was never  registered in Mrs Ds name  or at any 
of the addresses  shes lived at - according to her credit file;
Mrs D supplied evidence from another lender that shows  this wasnt  the first time 
shes been impersonated by a third party to obtain credit - and that other  lender 
accepted the account  was fraudulent. 
Our investigator finds Mrs Ds evidence about what happened to be credible and consistent 
with events. On balance, shes satisfied that Mrs D probably didnt know that this CSA was 
taken out in her name. She says Close Brothers  shouldnt hold Mrs D liable for the debt in 
these circumstances.  She considers it should rectify Mrs Ds credit file and pay her £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN71232752Close Brothers didnt  agree so the matter  has been  passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says she was the innocent victim of a fraud  here because someone  else took out this 
CSA without her knowledge  or consent. Close Brothers says the person who opened the 
account was able to supply Mrs Ds personal  details including her address, date of birth and 
bank details so it has no reason to think this wasnt Mrs D. 
I accept the most of the personal details supplied and checked  when  this CSA was taken  out 
were Mrs Ds. But, I dont think it would have  been too difficult  for someone  shed  lived with - 
such as an ex partner  - to access  and provide  that information. 
The CSA was signed electronically so theres no signature to compare to Mrs Ds. It looks as 
if the person who took out the CSA wasnt asked for any other proof  of identity - such as a 
drivers licence or passport. And Close Brothers hasnt been able to tell us the name on any 
drive-away insurance  taken out on the day. 
As far as I can see, the account was accessed  and managed on-line using an email  address 
that doesnt appear to belong to Mrs D. The bank account paying the direct debit was 
changed online soon  after the account  was opened  - to an account that is not in Mrs Ds 
name. Ive seen some of Mrs Ds bank  statements for the relevant time and theres no sign 
that payments  for this debt were made  from that account. 
Mrs D says she had nothing to do with this CSA. She didnt borrow the money  and has never  
driven the car or received any benefit  from the provision of this credit. Close  Brothers 
records confirm this car was never registered in her name. And Ive seen nothing  to show 
that the car was ever registered at an address that Mrs D lived at. 
Mrs D has provided some  evidence that suggests someone else may have borrowed money 
in her name in the past. I am satisfied the credit card provider on that occasion accepted the 
debt wasnt Mrs Ds, rectified  her credit file and reported the matter to CIFAS.  
I dont think any lender is likely to do that without undertaking an investigation that concluded  
Mrs D probably  wasnt  the debtor and a fraud had taken place. I appreciate  this doesnt 
prove that Mrs D didnt take out this CSA.  But, I think its reasonable to take the fact that 
another lender seems  to have been  satisfied that Mrs D probably was the victim of fraud into 
account. 
Like our investigator,  I have considered  what Mrs D says happened  very carefully.  I find her 
evidence to be plausible - and I think it seems  to be consistent with events and the 
paperwork that Ive seen. 
Im satisfied that Mrs D got in touch with Close Brothers as soon as she became aware of 
this CSA - and she tried to involve the police  by reporting the matter to Action Fraud. I think 
Mrs D appears  to have been  open  with our investigation. As far as I can tell, shes answered 
our investigators questions and supplied all of the evidence that she could - which  includes 
Ref: DRN71232753bank statements and a copy  of her credit  file. Nothing Ive seen there  suggests  anything 
significant that Mrs D has told us about  this matter is untrue. 
It looks as if Close Brothers had concerns about  this account several months  before Mrs D 
got in touch - after a man phoned in January  2018.  The relevant contact notes say the call 
handler thought  the caller might be the owner of the email address Close  Brothers held on 
record - but the call handler was unable to discuss the account because he wasnt  the 
customer. 
I dont think its that unusual for a family  member  or another third party  to phone  and try to 
discuss someone elses account. When that happens a lender will generally explain that the 
named customer needs to ring back and provide authority for the caller to speak on their 
behalf. But, thats not what happened here.  
Instead, the call handler  seems to have been troubled by the call. And Close  Brothers 
decided to check the registered  keeper with the DVLA. It discovered the car was registered 
in the name  of a third party - and had never been registered at the address it held for Mrs D. 
Close Brothers took steps at this point to try and recover the vehicle, which  ultimately proved 
unsuccessful.   
I cant be certain what happened here exactly. It is, of course, possible that Mrs D played  
some part in obtaining this CSA. But, I have  to decide what I think  is most likely on the 
balance of probabilities, based  on all of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Having weighed up everything Ive seen, Im satisfied it is more likely  than not Mrs D did not 
take out this CSA - or receive the car or any other benefit from this finance agreement. I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Close Brothers to hold Mrs D liable to repay  the 
outstanding debt, in this situation. 
I agree  with our investigator that Close  Brothers should remove any information  it has 
recorded about the CSA from Mrs Ds credit  file. And I think  it would be fair for Close  
Brothers to pay Mrs D £150 compensation - in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by being pursued for this debt. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Close 
Brothers Limited to
1.cancel the conditional sale agreement and not hold Mrs D responsible  for the debt;
2.remove any information  recorded  about the conditional sale agreement from Mrs Ds 
credit file; and
3.pay Mrs D £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Close Brothers must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mrs 
D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this Close Brothers must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Ref: DRN71232754Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7123275