K821x#15complaint
Miss R has complained 123 Debt Solutions  Ltd wont refund fees for a debt management 
plan taken from her account  from 2012  to 2014. She never agreed to set up this plan.
background
123 Debt Solutions  administered a debt management plan on Miss Rs behalf  from April 
2012 to May 2014. 18 payments of £99 and five payments of £60 were  deducted from her 
current account. Money went to pay Miss Rs creditors apart from 123 Debt Solutions  
management fees.
In 2018 Miss R was contacted by a debt recovery company (who Ill call P). They notified her 
of a debt and the plan administered by 123 Debt Solutions. It was only at this time Miss R 
was aware what had happened. Miss R complained to 123 Debt  Solutions. She drew  their 
attention to the fact the signature for the debt management plan wasnt hers, nor was the 
address.
Ironically as 123 Debt Solutions  werent  satisfied Miss R had ever been  their customer, they 
were unwilling to deal with her complaint. They confirmed as the signatures didnt match,  
they couldnt deal with her because of their concerns over data protection.  Miss R wanted  
money to be refunded to her and associated lending related to the plan removed from her 
liability. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator initially believed  based on the scant evidence  that as Miss R hadnt 
taken out the debt management plan, 123 Debt Solutions should refund any management 
fees paid under the plan.
After a subsequent review, 123 Debt Solutions confirmed a number of debts covered by the 
plan. They couldnt, however, access a range  of data as they were having  difficulties 
accessing their historical records. Our investigator then felt it was possible Miss R had taken  
out this plan to help manage her debts.
Miss R disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
Miss R pointed out 123 Debt  Solutions  had until recently felt she wasnt their customer as 
her own signature and the one they held relating  to the plan didnt match.
It was clear that other  cases our service was considering on Miss Rs behalf related to 
financial agreements being  taken out fraudulently in her name.  Miss R had told us of a 
previous abusive  relationship where  a partner had taken out loans in her name.
Our investigator tried to obtain  further evidence from both parties. By this stage 123 Debt 
Solutions hadnt been providing debt advice for a considerable  time and were  looking at 
voluntary liquidation.
Miss R was able to provide copies of bank  statements for her former account  which  showed 
monthly payments  to 123 Debt Solutions over more than a two-year period.
Our investigator then decided  taking into account  all the evidence Miss R had provided  
Miss R hadnt taken out the debt management plan. 123 Debt  Solutions  should repay 
management fees to Miss R along with 8% simple interest from the time she was debited in 
2012 to 2014.
Ref: DRN72711642123 Debt Solutions  raised a number of issues about  this resolution as they werent sure why 
they should be responsible for what had happened. Particularly because of the time that had 
passed since the debt management plan had been taken out. They  also confirmed all 
matters relating to their debt advice services were now being managed by an Insolvency 
Practitioner.
Miss R accepted this outcome.
As 123 Debt Solutions  is going through liquidation,  it was felt a final decision should be 
completed to give Miss R the best chance  of obtaining redress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
I appreciate 123 Debt Solutions has raised  a concern about why theyre  having to consider a 
complaint about  something which happened  so long ago. This is because Miss R only 
became aware  of this debt management plan in 2018 when she was told about this by P. 
Straightaway it seems  she contacted  123 Debt Solutions  to try to resolve what had 
happened. 123 Debt Solutions was unwilling to assist her. Im in no doubt this all falls within  
the timescales set out in our rules so see nothing wrong in us considering Miss Rs 
complaint.
From all Ive seen from Miss R, I believe she was in an abusive relationship. A police report 
which shes provided to us testifies to this. Her ex-partner appeared to take out a number of 
loans in Miss Rs name. It also looks as if  in an attempt to disguise the financial  difficulties  
he was in  a debt management  plan was taken out in Miss Rs name.  Right  from the start of 
the complaint  123 Debt Solutions has accepted the signature they hold isnt Miss Rs. Ive 
seen other  identity evidence from Miss R and agree the signature  on the debt management 
plan isnt Miss Rs.
The loans covered by the debt management  plan werent loans that Miss R took out. So I 
see no reason why shed have taken  out a debt management plan.
Because of the difficulties of the experience Miss R went through, Im not at all surprised she 
didnt pick up earlier on the regular monthly payments being  made  to 123 Debt  Solutions 
from her bank account.
Overall Im satisfied Miss R didnt take out the debt management plan with 123 Debt  
Solutions. Therefore they will need  to take steps to put things right.
Miss R has provided us with statements for the period  April 2012 to May 2014.  From  April 
2012 to September 2013 there were 18 monthly  payments of £99 made to 123 Debt  
Solutions. These total £1,782. From January to May 2014 there were five monthly  payments 
of £50. Altogether Miss R paid 123 Debt Solutions £2,082. Payments were taken on the 26th 
of the month.  
Ref: DRN72711643From an example of a debt management plan given to us by 123 Debt Solutions,  it appears 
she would  have been paying 12.5% of her monthly  fee to them. The first two monthly  
payments will also have  gone to 123 Debt Solutions  according to their plan which states: 
Our setup fees are the first two monthly  payments that [the] You make to Us, up to a 
maximum of £1000. Any fees over this amount will be disbursed  to Your creditors.
I have based the redress  due to Miss R on this information. I appreciate  123 Debt  Solutions 
suggested this would  have been a maximum of £150 but I believe in fact it is more than that 
based on their own example agreements.
I believe they will need to repay her £235.50 (being 12.5% of 21 monthly payments and 
£198 being the first two monthly payments in full. As this money  was not available to Miss R 
to spend, 8% simple  interest a year will need  to be added to this.
Miss R initially  wanted  123 Debt Solutions  to repay  the money paid to creditors and remove  
references to loans from her credit  record. Her best bet to ensure this redress is to raise 
complaints with the individual  loan providers. I believe  shes  done this.
I cant confirm definitively  that Miss R will get this redress paid because 123 Debt  Solutions 
are going  through liquidation but the Insolvency  Practitioner will have a copy of this final 
decision as well. This will confirm Miss R as a creditor of 123 Debt Solutions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  123 Debt Solutions Ltd to:
Repay £433.50  to Miss R being debt management fees for the period  April 2012 to 
May 2014; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to these amounts from the dates Miss R paid these to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7271164