K822xcomplaint
Mr G, who is represented  by a claims management  company  (CMC),  complains  that 
Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook)  was wrong to reject  a claim he made under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) in respect  of a pair of electronic 
garage doors (doors) he purchased.
background 
In mid-2015 Mr G bought  doors from a company  that I will call Z. 
On the purchase  order signed by Mr G, two prices are shown. A cash  terms price of 
£8,739.80 and a life style account (finance) price of £7,500. Mr G paid Z a deposit of £100  
leaving a net cash terms price payable of £8,639.80 and a finance price  payable of £7,400.  
The difference between the two prices equates to what  Z calls a life style subsidy of 
£1,239.80.
Mr G elected to finance the purchase  of the doors  and he signed a fixed  sum loan 
agreement (agreement)  with Shawbrook for £7,400 (£7,500 less £100) repayable  over 120 
months at £163.29 a month  total repayable £20,934.60.
The doors were fitted and Mr G signed a satisfaction  note in July 2015  which  authorised 
Shawbrook to release  the sum of £7,400  to Z. 
Later Z ceased to trade and so the 10 year warranty Mr G had been given by it (at no cost) 
was no longer of any worth.
In late-2017, and again in early-2018, the CMC wrote to Shawbrook  to complain that Mr G 
should:
be refunded all the payments he had made under the agreement
be paid 8% interest on these refunds
have his agreement  cancelled with nothing further to pay
have no adverse or negative information  recorded with credit reference  agencies
The CMC said it was seeking the above  compensation because:
there was an error on the agreement, with the cash price  being recorded as £7,500  
rather than £8,739.80
the offer of a price  reduction of £1,239.80, if Mr G agreed to finance  his purchase,  is 
against FCA rules and regulations and a breach of current consumer protection 
regulations
Shawbrook didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint so the CMC referred it to our service for 
investigation. In doing so it reiterated its submissions to Shawbrook  and added that:
Mr G had been given  a ten year warranty that was no longer valid because Z had 
gone into liquidation
Mr G signed the purchase order and the agreement on the same day
there was no application  for finance completed by Mr G
there was no income and expenditure application completed by Mr G or any 
assessment as to the affordability of the finance
Ref: DRN79368152Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it should be 
upheld in part. In summary:
He explained  that we arent a court service  and we assess  complaints on a fair and 
reasonable basis. He noted that Mr G didnt dispute he had to pay £7,400 for the 
doors (after accounting for his £100  deposit)  or that these  doors  were  supplied and 
fitted to his satisfaction. And for this reason it was fair and reasonable for Shawbrook 
to hold him liable  for the agreement debt. He also said that if Mr G remained of the 
view that the agreement was unenforceable, then he should  consider referring  the 
matter to court for a decision on the same.
He said he had seen  no evidence that Mr G was coerced into taking out the 
agreement. Or that there was anything wrong  with Mr G being  offered an incentive to 
finance the doors rather than pay for them in cash.
He said as Z was now in liquidation  Shawbrook should ensure Mr G was provided 
with a replacement  warranty.
Shawbrook accepted the adjudicators view and said it would take responsibility for the 
warranty. However the CMC didnt.  In summary it, as well as reiterating its earlier 
submissions, said:
There was a breach  of nine of the principles listed in the FCA handbook at 
CONC 1.1.4 G 
There was a breach  of CONC 4.8.2 R which states A firm must  not unfairly 
encourage incentivise or induce  a customer to enter  into a regulated credit 
agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the pre-contract 
information under section 55 of the CCA and the expectations  under  CONC 4.2.5
There was a breach  of CONC 5.2.1 which (at the relevant time) stated (1) Before 
making a regulated  credit agreement the firm must undertake an assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the customer(3) A creditworthiness assessment must be based  
on sufficient information obtained  from (a) the customer, where appropriate;  and (b) a 
credit reference agency, where  necessary
There was a breach  of CONC 5.2.2 which (at the relevant time) stated (in point 3) A 
firm must consider sufficient information to enable it to make  a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment or a reasonable assessment required by (1)
The adjudicator considered the CMCs response  to his view and responded to say:
He wasnt persuaded there had been  a breach of CONC 4.8.2  R. In his view Mr G 
wasnt unfairly encouraged, incentivised or induced into entering the agreement, and 
he was given time to consider the pre-contract information.
Any complaint  about a failure to carry out sufficient affordability checks needs to be 
raised with Shawbrook as a new complaint.
The CMC still didnt  agree with the adjudicators view so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
Ref: DRN79368153my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time. And 
for the avoidance  of doubt I think that section 75 applies here.
Its clear the CMC  has very strong  feelings  about this complaint. It has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of its view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that the CMC (and Mr G) will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and that they are expressed  in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
First, and for the avoidance of any doubt,  Im not considering  in this complaint any concern 
the CMC  might  have  about what it says was a failure on the part of Shawbrook to undertake 
an assessment of Mr Gs credit worthiness before granting him the finance that it did. As 
pointed out by the adjudicator this is an issue  that needs to be raised with Shawbrook  as a 
new compliant and then, if appropriate, considered  by our service  under a separate  
reference.
The CMC submits that because the cash price of the doors  is listed  on the agreement as 
£7,500, rather  than £8,739.80, its unenforceable. But my role isnt to make such  a finding.  
Only a court can decide whether an agreement debt is enforceable. Therefore if the CMC 
would like a finding  on this point then, as the adjudicator pointed out, referral  to the courts  
needs to be made. However, and for the avoidance of any doubt, Ive had regard  to what the 
CMC says on this issue when deciding this case on the grounds of what I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
I will now turn to the other issues raised by the CMC. These  being  that Zs 10 year warranty 
no longer has any worth,  that Mr G was coerced (encouraged, incentivised  or induced) into 
entering the agreement that he did (by the offer of a discount)  and that he had insufficient  
time to consider  all his payment  options.
I accept that Zs 10 year warranty no longer has any worth  because Z has gone  into 
liquidation. I also accept  that this constitutes  a breach of contract that Shawbrook should 
reasonably be held responsible for under section 75. But given that Shawbrook says it will 
honour the terms of this warranty going  forward, I cant  see that Mr G has suffered any loss 
as a result  of this, whether a current  loss or a potential loss going  forward.  I would also add 
that had Shawbrook not agreed to honour  the terms of Zs warranty going forward,  that is all 
I would have directed  it to do.
Ref: DRN79368154I accept that Mr G agreed to purchase the doors  from Z and fund the purchase of the same 
with finance from Shawbrook, on the same  day. I also accept that Mr G was offered  a price 
reduction if he funded  the purchase  of the doors with finance  from Shawbrook rather  than 
paying for the purchase in cash.  But as pointed out by the adjudicator,  the relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards dont prohibit  this. Furthermore I think its clear 
from everything that has been  provided that Mr G would have understood, or ought to have 
reasonably understood, that despite  receiving a discount on the price  of the doors  if he paid 
for the same with finance  from Shawbrook, such an option might ultimately end up costing 
him more  than if he had paid for the doors  in cash.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted (including various point of sale 
paperwork) Im satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities, that Mr G had sufficient time to 
understand the two payment options  open  to him and sufficient time in which  to make  an 
informed choice about which one to proceed with. I would also add that if Mr G felt coerced 
or pressured into taking  the option that he did, Im somewhat surprised he left it over two 
years before he raised a complaint with Shawbrook, and then our service, about  the same.
Ive seen insufficient evidence that would allow me to conclude that Mr G was unaware that 
the cash purchase price  of the doors was £8,739.80 and the finance cost of the them was 
£7,500. Ive also seen insufficient  evidence that would allow  me to conclude Mr G didnt 
understand there was an interest  cost in financing his purchase with Shawbrook  and 
(everything else being equal) no such cost if he paid for his purchase  in cash. 
So taking everything into account Im not persuaded it would be either fair or reasonable for 
me to direct Shawbrook to compensate Mr G for the fact that he was offered a price  
reduction for funding  his purchase by way of finance, or because he signed the finance 
agreement on the same day as he signed  the purchase order.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited must honour,  has it has already agreed to 
do, the terms of Zs warranty going  forward, but it need do nothing  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7936815