K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved two personal  
loans for her. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 February 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
When the adjudicator  spoke  with Miss K she confirmed  she accepted my provisional  
decision. HSBC  responded  to say it didnt  accept the provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In HSBCs response it says that both loans were agreed on the basis of the income and 
expenditure information it obtained during the application and were subject to its affordability 
checks as well as information  it got from the credit reference agencies. HSBC  says that the 
loan applications  went through  its automated system  and no human was involved in the 
decision to lend. HSBC  goes on to say Miss K couldve used an online chat service, made a 
call or visited a branch  if she had any concerns  about her application. 
I take all of the above on board but just because a loan application  doesnt  throw up any red 
flags during an automated  application  process doesnt mean HSBC  lent responsibly. In this 
case I still think there were a number of warning signs that the loans  Miss K applied  for 
werent sustainable, regardless of how the application was processed.
HSBC says Miss K completed mandatory fields during  her application but as Ive said, I 
think the information she provided  shouldve  caused HSBC to take a closer look at the 
application. Very little expenditure information was provided which, given Miss Ks 
circumstances, shouldve  concerned HSBC. And if HSBC had completed more  
comprehensive checks, like looking at Miss Ks bank statements for instance, I think  its 
likely it wouldve found that the loans she applied for werent affordable  in the long term. 
HSBC says that completing  two loan applications in quick  succession isnt unusual  and 
doesnt indicate financial difficulties. I disagree.  Mrs K didnt reapply for a small top up 
because of a miscalculation, she increased her borrowing by £2,650, a jump of around 46% 
on the original  loan. Thats a material increase in borrowing and shouldve caused  HSBC to 
ask some further questions. 
Ive thought about everything HSBCs said in response to my provisional decision but its 
comments havent persuaded me to change  my decision. I still think  Miss Ks complaint 
should be upheld  in line with my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN74729092my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle in line with 
the following:
-Refund any interest and charges applied to the two loans;
-Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to these amounts from the date they    
were paid to the date of settlement*;
-Apply these refunds  to Miss Ks outstanding loan balance;
-Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ks credit  file about the loans;
-Ensure the current  loan isnt subject to further  interest; and
-Pay £150 compensation directly  to Miss K for the trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC  to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must  give
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
copy provisional decision  18 February  2019
complaint
Miss K complains  that HSBC lent irresponsibly when it approved two personal loans for her.
Background
In December 2017 Miss K applied for a personal  loan with HSBC  for £5,650 and it was
approved. In January 2018 Miss K applied for additional funds and a new loan was arranged
for £8,300,  repaying  the previous loan.
During the application  process  HSBC  asked  Miss K about  her income and outgoings. Miss K
said she was employed part time and earned £2,200 a month  after tax. She also told HSBC
Ref: DRN74729093that she was a tenant and had a dependent.  Miss K said her rent was £675 a month but
didnt give details of any other  outgoings.
Miss K started having difficulties  maintaining  her payments shortly after the second loan
funds were released.
In February 2018 HSBC completed an income  and expenditure assessment with Miss K and
found her income was lower than declared  in the application and her outgoings  were  higher.
As a result, HSBC found Miss K couldnt afford a payment arrangement and the loan was
defaulted.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K complains  that HSBC lent irresponsibly. The adjudicator felt HSBC  had completed
proportionate checks and its decision to lend was reasonable.  But, from what  Ive seen, I
dont agree the decision to approve these  loans  was reasonable and I havent found that
HSBC completed  proportionate  checks.
The sums involved here are reasonably large. Miss K initially borrowed £5,650 then
increased the loan very quickly to £8,300. Given the level of borrowing  I think HSBC needed
to get a detailed picture of Miss Ks personal  and financial circumstances. And I can see that
HSBCs loan application does ask for a lot of detail  in terms of the applicants circumstances.
But Miss K only declared  £675  for rent and didnt  tell HSBC about  any other outgoings.
From what Ive seen, that shouldve caused HSBC to ask further questions. Miss K told
HSBC she was single, had a dependent  and is a tenant. While  I can see she was paying
rent, its clear  an applicant in those  circumstances  would have other outgoings as well. On
receipt of Miss Ks application Id have expected the absence of realistic expenditure
information to have  caused HSBC to ask more questions.
Thats what HSBC did after the loan funds had already  been released  and Miss K had
trouble maintaining her payments.  When  HSBC completed a budget planner and looked at
Miss Ks actual income and outgoings it found the loan payments werent  affordable for her. I
think its likely thats what it wouldve found if it had completed proportionate checks  on the
original applications.
Miss K holds her current account with HSBC, so it wouldve been possible for it to check
what she said in her application about  her general finances was broadly  correct. And I think
the information Miss K provided  shouldve been sufficient to cause HSBC to complete further
and more  detailed  checks.
Overall, Im not satisfied HSBC lent responsibly  by approving the loans based on unrealistic
information contained in the applications.
In addition, Miss K initially  applied for a lower loan sum but quickly  went back to HSBC to
ask for more. The fact that she went back within a week to increase her borrowing indicates
her financial situation may have been strained at the time. Returning for additional borrowing
in a short space of time often  indicates a growing  dependency on credit and I think  this also
shouldve caused  HSBC to consider asking additional questions.
Had HSBC looked to complete more proportionate checks  I think  it wouldve  found that
Miss Ks income was lower  than declared and her outgoings were  considerably higher.
Miss Ks current account also shows regular  online  gambling and I think thats something
that HSBC wouldve seen if itd looked and may have affected its decision to lend.
Ref: DRN74729094Miss Ks told us this situation  has caused her a lot of stress and worry and I accept thats
likely the case. Ive factored the impact of the loans, and the worry about paying them back,
on Miss K into my decision.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded HSBC lent responsibly to Miss K so I intend to
uphold this complaint.
putting things  right
I dont think HSBC shouldve agreed to lend to Miss K so it should:
-Refund any interest and charges applied to the two loans;
-Add simple  interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to these amounts from the date they
were paid to the date of settlement*;
-Apply these refunds to Miss Ks outstanding loan balance;
-Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file about the loans;
-Ensure  the current loan isnt subject  to further interest;  and
-Pay £150  compensation  directly  to Miss K for the trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give
Miss K a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct
HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle in line with the above guidance.
Miss K and HSBC have until 18 March 2019  to send me anything  further theyd like me to
consider before I make  my final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7472909