K821x#15Complaint
Miss P complains  that Oakam Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
Background
Based on the information, Miss P entered into three loans with Oakam between July and 
December 2010.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 2 Jul 2010 3 Nov 2010 26 £240
2 2 Nov 2010 28 Dec 2010 26 £266
3 28 Dec 2010 outstanding 26 £345
Miss P says the lending was irresponsible and that she only became aware that she could 
raise a complaint  in 2019. 
Oakam responded to Miss Ps initial complaint saying that the loans had been provided more  
than six years before the complaint was raised and so fell outside of the time limits for 
referral to the financial ombudsman service.  It provided evidence  regarding the loans and 
the information gathered in the application  process.
Our adjudicator addressed the issue regarding jurisdiction and considered  the merits of this 
case. He didnt think that the loans should have been provided  to Miss P. He said that the 
information gathered  showed Miss P was experiencing problems managing her money. He 
noted that Miss P was in arrears at the time of the first loan and thought that Oakam should 
have realised that it was unlikely  she would  be able to sustainably repay this, and 
subsequent, loans.
Oakam didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It raised  the issue of jurisdiction again and said 
it didnt think that sufficient clarity had been  given in the decision.  It said it had asked if the 
composition or age of the arrears  was considered and was told it wasnt and questioned why 
this information  was irrelevant. 
Our adjudicator responded to Oakams comments. He set out his explanation regarding  why 
he believed  the complaint  was in jurisdiction and provided an opportunity to respond beyond  
which he said an ombudsman would review  the merits of this complaint.
As no further  response was received and a resolution hasnt  been  agreed, this complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to provide a decision on its merits. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. This decision addresses the merits of this case.
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
Ref: DRN70409322the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam  was required to establish  
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loans in this case were provided  in 2010. At that time the relevant guidance was 
provided by the Office  of Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the need to make  a reasonable 
assessment of whether a borrower  can afford  to meet repayments in a sustainable manner.  
This refers to issues such as being  able to the make the repayments without undue 
difficulties throughout  the life of the agreement and without having  to realise security or 
assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having to borrow 
further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P entered into three loans each repayable over 26 weekly instalments. Before the first 
loan was provided, Oakam gathered information about Miss Ps income and carried out a 
credit check.  The information recorded Miss Ps monthly income as just under £600.  This is 
a low income and I think that Oakam should have carried  out a check on her ongoing 
expenses to ensure  lending  to her was affordable. 
The application information provided for this loan doesnt record  any expenses and has the 
net disposable income as the same  as Miss Ps income. I dont think this should have been 
accepted as Miss P has included information elsewhere that she has a dependent and also 
isnt a homeowner.  Therefore  I think further  checks should have taken place to ensure 
Oakam had accurate information about Miss Ps disposable monthly income.
The information Oakam  did gather showed that Miss P was having  problems managing  her 
money. She had an outstanding credit balance  of £6,595 and this is shown to be in arrears. I 
note the comments  about the composition  of the arrears but given  the arears are clearly 
shown and the information shows she had seven open lines of credit of which six were in 
arrears with the worst arrears being recorded  as 12 months I think  this raises concerns 
about her financial  situation at that time. Given this, I think Oakam  were reasonably aware 
that Miss P was having  problems  managing her money. Miss Ps second and third loans 
were taken out immediately after the previous loan was repaid. 
Overall, given the information gathered  before the first loan was provided and Miss Ps need 
to borrow as soon  as a previous loan was repaid,  I think Oakam  should  have been 
Ref: DRN70409323concerned that Miss P wasnt able to sustainably afford the loans and I agree with our 
adjudicator that these  loans shouldnt have been  provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  one to three.  If Oakam  Ltd 
has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Oakam Ltd is not able to buy the debt back  then it should liaise  with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
A.Oakam Ltd should add together the total of the repayments made  by Miss P towards  
interest, fees and charges on the upheld loans without an outstanding  balance, not 
including anything  that has already been  refunded.
B.Oakam Ltd should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Miss P which were  considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss P 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Oakam Ltd remove all interest  fees and charges from the balance  on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made by Miss P as though  they had 
been repayments of the principal. Based on the statement provided this will result  in 
Miss P having made overpayments.  These  should  be refunded with 8% simple  
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Oakam Ltd should then refund the 
amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Oakam Ltd should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ps credit file in 
relation to loans  one to three.  If Oakam Ltd has sold any of the loans it should ask 
the debt purchaser to do the same. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oakam  Ltd 
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040932