K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) asked him to pay when 
his lease overran.  
background
Mr B took receipt of a new vehicle in September  2015. He financed the deal through  a two 
year hire agreement with PSA. The contract expired  in September 2017 but Mr B was 
working away hed left the car with his father  ready for collection but when  he got back  in 
October the car was still there. So he emailed PSA on 9 October to arrange collection.
But PSA didnt return his email and the car was hit by another  car in November which 
damaged the wing mirror. PSA eventually collected  the car in January 2018 but they sent 
Mr B a bill for the repair to the wing mirror; a missing  locking wheel nut and £200 for a 
missed service. Mr B was unable  to persuade PSA to drop these charges. He said the car 
was only in his possession because PSA had failed to respond to him and collect the car.
PSA said theyd sent end of contract  letters and that theyd been unable to retrieve  the car 
despite frequent calls. They said the car was still in Mr Bs possession and the contract  
therefore held him responsible for any damage that happened in his care.  
So Mr B brought  his complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the 
evidence. He didnt  think PSA had addressed Mr Bs concerns in any of their letters  and he 
said they were generic  and therefore unhelpful.  He noted that PSA now accepted that they 
had failed to send end of contract letters and Mr B explained that although hed had missed  
calls, there  were no messages left. He explained  that Mr B had emailed requesting  they 
collect the car but hadnt had a response and he thought PSAs generic  letters  hadnt helped  
the situation. He didnt  think it was reasonable for PSA to charge Mr B for the damage that 
occurred when they should have  arranged for collection of the car earlier. He noted that the 
wheel nut had now been found and was no longer contested and he negotiated  with PSA 
who were eventually prepared to reduce the cost for damage  by £211.79 as they realised 
the email Mr B had been provided  with was an old one and emails had therefore not been 
redirected to them.
But Mr B wasnt  prepared  to accept that offer and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PSA but I dont  think  theyve done enough here.  Please let me 
explain.
 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN71416362Mr B seems  to have made efforts to have his car collected. He was away from May to 
October but as soon  as he returned he contacted PSA. It wasnt his fault that hed been 
given the wrong  email  address or that hed not received  letters from them reminding  him of 
the return. That was PSAs error.
And I agree with the investigator that further  delays were not helped by the generic nature of 
PSAs letters. 
Had PSA communicated effectively I think their asset would have been returned in time. 
There appears no advantage to Mr B in retaining it and I can see that he had terminated his 
insurance. The contract does suggest  that Mr B is responsible for damage but its 
debateable whether this is until the car is returned  or to the end of the lease term and 
regardless, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable  to hold Mr B responsible for the 
damage that occurred  to the car because PSA hadnt arranged  collection in line with the 
email hed sent them.
So I think the damage to the car should  be covered by PSA.  
Mr B has accepted responsibility for the missing service. This appears to have  been  
correctly charged by PSA as it will probably have resulted in a loss in value of their asset 
and the requirement  for a full service  history was clearly identified  in the contract  Mr B 
entered into.
I believe the locking  wheel nut has been found  and is no longer an issue.  So to resolve  this 
complaint I think PSA should drop the charge for damage to their vehicle.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to 
allow Mr B to pay £200 to compensate them for the missing service.  This is in full and final 
settlement of the end of lease charges theyve levied.
They should  also ensure that any adverse  records  that may have been made on Mr Bs 
credit file, as a result of this issue, are removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141636