K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (SDFCL) applied interest to 
her catalogue account  when  it shouldnt  have and provided poor service  when she got in 
touch to try and sort this out. 
background
Miss B has a catalogue  account that allows her to buy goods  from a retailer that Ill refer to 
as V with credit provided by SDFCL.  V deals with account administration on behalf of 
SDFCL. In July 2018  Miss B was charged interest  and she couldnt see why - as she was 
having trouble  accessing  statements online.
Miss B contacted V about these issues. She was told she wouldnt be charged interest if she 
cleared the buy now pay later (BNPL) amount on July 27th (the due date). Miss B paid the 
BNPL amount but interest was still charged  so she contacted Vs live chat team  in early 
August. That web chat took nearly  two hours  but Miss B says it didnt sort things  out and she 
was given incorrect information. She feels theres been no real attempt to resolve things 
since as phone calls and emails werent  answered  and copy statements requested werent  
supplied. 
Miss B has arranged to receive paper statements going forward  but this doesnt help her to 
work out what happened before. She says there are inaccuracies on her account which 
havent been explained. She wants SDFCL to sort this out and pay compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience caused.  
SDFCL says Miss B placed an order for two items  totalling just over £70 on standard  
account terms (not BNPL)  in July. This meant  a minimum payment of just over £25 or a 
Take 3 payment  of just over £45 was due towards  the flexible account balance  by 27 July 
2018. A BNPL item was also due for payment around the same time and Miss B paid that. 
But, she didnt pay the flexible balance so she was charged interest of just under  £2 (for 
purchases made on 6 July 2018)  in line with the account terms and conditions.
SDFCL acknowledges  Miss B should  have received better service  in the web chat in early  
August. But it feels this was sorted out fairly quickly - Miss B was sent a response  about a 
week after she complained offering  to refund interest and pay £30 compensation. 
Our investigator thinks Miss B was given  some incorrect information and had to wait far too 
long to have a relatively simple query  resolved. She acknowledges SDFCL took some steps 
to put things right by offering to refund interest and pay £30 compensation. But she doesnt 
think thats enough in light of what happened. She recommends SDFCL should  
refund  the full amount  of interest  charged  (and ensure no more is applied) as a result  
of this issue;
ensure Miss B has access to statements going forward; and
pay Miss B £100.00 (including the £30.00 already offered) for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Miss B accepted  this but SDFCL objected to paying £100 compensation. It offered to 
increase the compensation for poor service in the August webchat to £50. Miss B didnt think  
that was enough for all of the trouble she had been put to. SDFCL  asked  for an ombudsman  
to review the matter.  
Ref: DRN74790552 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss B mentioned recently  that shes been unhappy  with the service she received in 
connection with this account for some time. So, I should make  it clear that I am only looking 
at her complaint about events around her interest/statements  query last summer in this 
decision. It is open to Miss B to raise the other matters she has referred to with SDFCL. And, 
if shes unhappy with the response, she may be able to bring another  complaint  to this 
service.
Having considered what happened  here carefully,  I reached broadly the same conclusions  
as our investigator. I had slightly different reasons so I wrote to SDFCL last month to explain 
why (based on the evidence I had) I was minded  to agree with our adjudicator and find it fair 
that the compensation paid to Miss B should be increased to £100. Ive summarised  what  I 
said below.   
I was satisfied that Miss B complained about being unable  to access  statements around  the 
same time as she raised  her complaint about interest.  I acknowledged  SDFCL sent Miss B a 
fairly detailed response near the end of September explaining the interest  applied.  But I 
thought it was understandable that Miss B wanted to see the relevant  statements to check  
what had happened  for herself.  
I could see that Miss B had chased  SDFCL  a few times in October. And SDFCL replied 
saying the interest  it agreed to refund had been removed and statements could be supplied,  
but not by email. I thought  that was probably somewhat frustrating for Miss B - as shed been  
told previously this was possible.  And I noted  Miss B had already pointed  out that only £1.90 
of the £1.94 interest applied had been  removed. I felt this (albeit minor) error probably added  
to Miss Bs concern that other mistakes  might have been made  - increasing her desire  to see 
her statements.  
I could see Miss B chased statements again in November and SDFCL  said paper copies 
would be supplied free if she identified the ones she wanted. I thought  that was probably  
fairly frustrating for Miss B - as I considered shed already made it reasonably  clear  which  
statements were required. 
I was satisfied Miss B asked for her July and August statements but they were  never 
supplied direct to her. I accepted SDFCL  sent statements  to this service  but that was more  
than three  months  after Miss B first raised  the issue. I felt this delay probably added  to Miss 
Bs confusion about what shed  been  told in August and increased  her frustration and 
inconvenience.
Taking everything into account,  I told SDFCL I was inclined to find it should pay Miss B £100 
compensation - in line with our investigators  recommendations which  I think  seem fair in all 
the circumstances. I gave SDFCL some  time to comment or provide  further  evidence.  
SDFCL has replied to say it accepts what Ive said and has nothing  further  to add. So, for the 
Ref: DRN74790553reasons Ive explained, I find the outcome recommended by our investigator is fair and 
reasonable overall. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and I require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to 
1.refund  the interest charged  (and ensure no more is applied)  as a result  of this issue;
2.ensure Miss B has access to account  statements going forward;  and
3.pay Miss B £100 (in total) for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7479055