K821xAXA15complaint
Mrs D complained that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company didnt warn her that her 
motor insurance policy  would lapse. 
background
Mrs D said that AXA didnt warn  her that her policy would lapse, so she didnt realise that her 
car insurance had expired, and her husband  was found to be driving without insurance.  But 
AXA said that this wasnt their fault as theyd sent her a renewal offer letter  in good time 
before her policy was due to lapse and so theyd done all they had to do. She was also 
unhappy that AXA wouldnt agree to insure  her again. 
Her husband Mr D, the named driver on the policy, brought the complaint on her behalf.
The adjudicator thought  that AXA had acted unreasonably as regards the policy  lapse and 
recommended that Mrs Ds complaint should  be upheld. AXA didnt agree so Ive been 
asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs D had her car insurance  with AXA since 2010, and had renewed every year. Her 
insurance was up for renewal on a date in 2018  and AXA said they wrote  to her about  this 
beforehand, inviting her to renew  and pay the premium. But Mrs D didnt do so, and the 
policy lapsed. But Mrs D said she didnt get the letter so she didnt realise  that her policy had 
lapsed until the police stopped her husband for driving without insurance. He was given a 
fine of £205 and 6 points  on his driving licence. 
This happened about five months after the policy lapsed, and Mrs D and her elderly  mother  
were also in the car at the time.  Its clear that Mrs D and her husband were both very 
shocked by what  had happened, and they had to stand by the side of the road while  they 
phoned AXA to ask them to insure  them there  and then, so that they could  drive  home.  But 
AXA wouldnt insure them then.  I can see that must have  added to what  was already a 
stressful situation for Mr and Mrs D and her mother, but, as the adjudicator explained,  this 
service cant tell an insurer  who it should insure as thats a commercial  decision for them.  So 
I cant say that AXA were unfair or unreasonable about this and I dont uphold  Mrs Ds 
complaint about  that.  
Mr and Mrs D accepted  that they hadnt  realised when her policy  was due for renewal. But 
Mrs D said she didnt get any renewal  letter from AXA that year, or any other  reminder.
AXA said that all theyd  ever done  was send  a renewal letter,  which was all they were  
required to do, and their terms  of business made that clear.  They  said they had sent Mrs D a 
renewal letter, to her correct address, and it wasnt their fault if she hadnt received it. But 
AXA havent  shown  us a copy of that letter. And though theyve shown us a copy of 
screenshots which they say confirm that they did send the letter, Im not persuaded that the 
screenshots do objectively show that. 
Ref: DRN73324692But even if AXA did send Mrs D the renewal letter as they claim, I still dont think  they did 
enough to warn her that her policy would lapse.  Generally this service takes the view that, if 
someone doesnt renew a policy, the insurer should  also send them another  letter, in 
addition to the renewal letter, to say that their policy will lapse or has lapsed, due to non-
renewal. That way they are clear that they no longer have insurance.  We think this is good  
practice because the consequences of driving without insurance are so severe. 
In Mrs Ds case, even if AXA did send the renewal  offer letter,  they didnt send her any 
warning or confirmation that her policy would lapse.  I think  that at the very least  they should  
have done this, even putting  aside the fact that she was a longstanding customer  who had 
renewed with them  every year for many years. 
As they didnt do this, I dont think that they acted fairly or reasonably  and I think  that their 
actions lead to Mr D receiving driving  licence points  and a fine. Not only was that stressful  
and embarrassing  for him but it is likely  to impact both their future insurance costs  adversely 
for the next 5 years as they will have to report it to future insurers. 
And so I agree  with the adjudicators view that AXA should reimburse  Mr D the fine he paid, 
plus interest, compensate  them for the stress and inconvenience caused and also 
compensate them both for any increase  in their insurance premiums over the next 5 years  
because of Mr Ds conviction.  Our approach here is to ask insurers  to refund half the cost of 
these additional  premiums, to reflect the decreasing  impact of the conviction over time. 
Mr and Mrs D should contact their insurers to find out how much  additional  premium  they 
have each paid because of Mr Ds conviction,  and show  this to AXA.
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company to do the following:
Reimburse Mr D the sum of £205 for the fine he received for driving without 
insurance, plus interest at the simple rate of 8% from the date on which Mr D paid the 
fine to the date AXA reimburse him.
Pay Mrs D £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience AXA caused.
Compensate Mr and Mrs D for any future premium increases  to their
personal car insurances  which  they may have because of Mr Ds conviction.  AXA 
should calculate these increases, multiply them by five (the number of years 
Mr and Mrs D will need to disclose it for), and then pay half of the total amount. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN73324693AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them that Mrs D 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If they consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from any interest, they should tell Mrs D how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mrs D a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7332469