K822xcomplaint
Ms O complains, via a representative  (H), about  Santander UK Plc (Santander  refusing to 
register an enduring  Power of Attorney on her account without additional information. Ms O 
wants Santander to register her attorney without the additional information. 
background 
Ms O is a longstanding customer of Santander and holds an ISA account with the business. 
In 2004, Ms O completed an Enduring Power of Attorney nominating 4 attorneys jointly and 
severally. These included  H. 
The Power  of Attorney  specified that the nominated attorneys would have no power to act 
until
they have reason to believe that
(a)I am becoming mentally incapable of managing my own affairs or
(b)That I have become physically handicapped to such a degree  that I cannot  look after 
my affairs  without  significant inconvenience discomfort  or difficulty. 
The Power  of Attorney  further specifies that if the attorneys  have reason to believe that the 
person (Ms O) is becoming  mentally  incapable  of managing her affairs, the attorney will have 
to apply to the Court  of Protection  for registration of the power. Understanding of this 
requirement was confirmed by all attorneys. 
In September  2018, H completed  an application  to become Ms Os attorney for her 
Santander account. 
With this application  she provided a certified copy of the Power of Attorney, and Hs ID 
documents. 
Santander wrote to H in October 2018. It set out that the application was missing  a copy of 
the Power of Attorney stamped by the Office of The Public Guardian. 
H wrote  back  to Santander, enclosing a further  copy of the unregistered Power  of Attorney. 
Santander responded to H, explaining that because of the conditions  on the Power of 
Attorney, it needed  evidence that either the Power  of Attorney had been registered, or 
evidence that Ms O was becoming, or had become, physically  incapable  to the extent 
required by the Power of Attorney conditions. 
H was not happy with this as she believed that the additional evidence was not required. She 
submitted a complaint. 
Santander sent its final response  in November 2018. Santander rejected the complaint and 
reiterated that because H was relying  on Ms O being physically incapable, medical evidence  
would be required before she could be registered  as an attorney.
H was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that Santander had provided evidence that they had acted in line with their processes, 
Ref: DRN73522762and that because an assessment of Ms Os physical  capabilities was required  by the Power 
of Attorney, it was reasonable of Santander  to require evidence of Ms Os physical  health.  
He did, however, think that Santander should  have  offered an alternative to requiring Ms O 
to attend a doctor, as this could be difficult for Ms O to achieve. 
Santander then agreed that it would be content  to speak  to Ms O over the telephone, confirm 
security with her and confirm her wishes, so as not to require her to attend a doctor. 
H did not accept  this view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. H considered  that the only 
assessment required  of Ms Os health  was that she, as the attorney,  have  reason  to believe 
that Ms O was in failing health. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I very much understand the frustration  of both H and Ms O in relation to this matter. H 
has explained that Ms O retains mental capacity, and that the difficulties in her managing her 
own affairs  are limited  to her physical ability. This must be frustrating for both Ms O and H 
and it may seem as though additional requirements  are an extra hurdle to clear  at an already  
difficult time. 
I do, however,  have  to consider whether Santander has acted  wrongly, towards Ms O. 
Santander has responsibilities to protect its customers as well as to not place unnecessary 
barriers in the way of customers  wishes. 
In this case, Santander has reviewed  the Power of Attorney and considers that in order to 
safeguard Ms Os account it is appropriate  to require  some objective evidence  to support Hs 
belief. Due to the way that the Power of Attorney is drafted I think this is a reasonable 
stance. 
I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view that Santander ought  to have been clearer 
in its communications  with H, to explain why it needed additional information, and that it 
ought to offer some compromise when it became clear  that attending a doctor would cause 
Ms O disproportionate inconvenience.  
I think that the proposal subsequently put forward by Santander, that it telephone  Ms O and 
obtain her verbal  confirmation of her wish to register H as her attorney, is a sensible 
proposal in light of the evidence that Ms O retains mental capacity.  The proposal allows 
Santander to balance its obligations  to Ms O whilst not placing an unduly heavy burden on 
Ms O. 
I have not seen any reason why this approach is not acceptable to Ms O, or that it would be 
impracticable. I think it a sensible solution. 
I appreciate Hs comments that it is an unnecessary step based on the comments  of Ms Os 
solicitors, but I think in the context of the dispute it is a reasonable solution  being offered. 
As a result, I agree  with the adjudicators assessment and uphold Ms Os complaint, but 
think that a reasonable offer has been made to resolve the complaint.  
Ref: DRN73522763I realise that this view will be disappointing  to H and Ms O, but I hope  it explains why I have 
reached it. 
For these reasons, I do not ask Santander  UK Plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Ms Os complaint  but think  that Santander has made  
a reasonable offer to resolve the complaint.  I do not ask Santander UK Plc to do anything  
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7352276