K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that UK Insurance Limited  trading as Green Flag Motoring Assistance 
(Green Flag) didnt  pay enough in compensation after her caravan was stolen while  it was in 
its possession.
background
While being towed to a campsite Miss Ws caravan  suffered  a shredded  tyre. Miss W called 
Green Flag for assistance but, as it was unable to repair the tyre at the roadside, it agreed  to 
tow the caravan to the campsite and meet Miss W there.
Due to driving hours, the initial recovery driver was unable to tow the caravan  the whole way 
and so it was arranged that hed leave it at an agreed location  a roadside service station - 
for a second  recovery driver to collect it and complete the journey to the campsite. 
Miss W decided to return home and intended to make the journey the following day, but 
Miss Ws daughter (Miss  B) and her family were due to meet  her at the campsite  to join her 
for the holiday so Green Flag arranged hotel  accommodation for Miss B and her family for 
the night, near to the campsite.
Green Flag told Miss W that the caravan would arrive the following day and so Miss B and 
her family spent the day at the campsite  waiting for it to arrive. Unfortunately,  the caravan 
was stolen sometime between the first driver  dropping  it off at the service station and the 
second driver arriving to collect it. Initially, however, Miss W wasnt  told it had been stolen, 
just that the second driver hadnt  been able to locate it. Green Flag sent another  driver to go 
and look for it and when  they couldnt  find it, Green Flag asked Miss W to report  the theft to 
the Police, which she did.
Green Flag arranged for Miss B and her family to stay another night in the hotel. It then 
booked a luxury static caravan on the campsite  for Miss W and her party to stay in. Miss W 
chose not to go on the holiday but allowed Miss B and her family to continue  with it. 
Miss W informed Green Flag that she also had two more upcoming caravan holidays 
planned for her and her family. 
The first was the following weekend. It was a break  that Miss W and her family go to every 
year and meet up with other friends on the same  campsite. Green Flag tried to book a static  
caravan for Miss W and her party on the site but, unfortunately, it was unable  to do this as 
there were none available. Instead it offered to pay for a holiday cottage  in the local town  
near to the campsite. Miss W refused this as she said they would  be too far away  and it 
would defeat the purpose  of their holiday which was to meet up with the other families and 
spend time with them  on the site. So Miss W decided not to go on this holiday.
The second  holiday  was for later in the summer and, as Miss W didnt want to miss out on 
this holiday, she booked a static caravan. Miss W says this cost £700 and this was £500 
more than it would have cost her if she had had her touring  caravan. Green Flag declined to 
pay for this holiday. But it did reimburse Miss W for a six-man tent at a cost of £375.
As the caravan was stolen  while in the possession of Green  Flag it dealt with her losses  
directly as compensation so there  was no insurance claim involved here. Everything that 
Ref: DRN78228502Green Flag paid was as compensation  for the loss of the caravan and its contents as well as 
for the inconvenience  the loss caused.  Accordingly, Green Flag paid Miss W:
£1,138 for the caravan;
£2,321 as a global  figure for the contents  of the caravan,  meals  and expenses that it 
agreed to cover.  This also included a six-man  tent.; and
£500 compensation.
Miss W accepted the amount paid for the caravan,  contents, expenses and sundries but was 
unhappy with the £500 compensation award. She felt that £2,000  would be a more 
appropriate amount  of compensation and so complained to Green Flag. It didnt agree and 
so Miss W brought her complaint to this service.  The investigator  didnt uphold  Miss Ws 
complaint, in summary she said:
Green flag had paid a fair price for the loss of the caravan.
The global figure Green Flag paid for the contents of the caravan  was fair.
The booking of the static caravan for the original holiday, alongside  the offer of the 
holiday cottage and the reimbursement of the six-man tent was enough in terms of 
redress for lost holidays.
£500 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss W disagreed with the investigator, maintaining that £2,000 would  be a more  appropriate 
amount due to the distress of missing her planned holidays. So the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss W that I think the investigator reached the correct 
outcome for broadly  the same reasons. As Miss W has already accepted  the payment for the 
caravan and its contents was fair, the matter for me to decide here is whether Green  Flag 
fairly compensated Miss W in the circumstances.
Miss W has told us that she missed two holidays and was out of pocket for a third and the 
£500 Green Flag awarded for this isnt enough. The holidays were:
i. the original trip that Miss W was travelling  to at the time the caravan tyre was 
damaged;
ii. the weekend  away with other  families/friends the following weekend; and
iii. the holiday Miss W intended to take with her grandchildren later in the summer. 
When looking at the compensation  awarded to Miss W I have taken  into what  has happened 
in the circumstances of each  holiday..
Ref: DRN78228503the original trip that Miss W was travelling  to at the time the caravan tyre was 
damaged
Green Flag did provide  hotel accommodation  for Miss B and her family for two nights and 
was prepared to do the same  for Miss W, but she had decided  not to continue with the 
journey at the time.  Once it was established  that the caravan had been stolen, Green Flag 
arranged and paid for a static caravan. The caravan  that it arranged was a luxury caravan 
with a hot tub. The cost of this was £900,  this was £700 more  than what  it cost for a touring 
caravan to stay on the same site. And while I recognise that Miss W wouldve preferred not 
to have been in this situation in the first place, I cant ignore that the static  caravan was an 
upgrade from what she had and so I have to consider this as part of the compensation 
package.
Miss W feels  upset  that she missed this holiday, but I cant  fairly conclude  that this was 
Green Flags  fault, as it had booked her alternative accommodation and it was her choice 
not to go.
the weekend  away  with other families/friends the following weekend
Miss W told us and Green Flag that this is a regular holiday that she takes every year and 
meets up with other families. Green Flag tried to book Miss W onto the campsite in a static 
caravan, but unfortunately the site was fully booked.  
As an alternative, Green  Flag offered to book Miss W a holiday cottage  in the local town. 
Miss W said that she didnt want it to do that as the idea of the holiday is for all of the 
families to be together and so if her and her family were not able to be on the site then they 
would rather not go. 
While I understand that missing this break  wouldve  been disappointing to Miss W, Green  
Flag did try to get Miss W accommodation on the site, and when it couldnt  it offered an 
alternative. I cant reasonably hold Green Flag responsible for the campsite being fully 
booked. Miss W hasnt shown that she had any financial  loss as a result of missing  this 
holiday and so I dont  believe Green  Flag needed to do more in the circumstances. 
the holiday Miss W intended  to take with her grandchildren
Miss W told Green Flag that having missed two holidays she was unwilling to miss another  
and asked for it to reimburse her for a six-man tent, the cost of this was £375. Green Flag 
agreed to this.
Miss W also booked  a static caravan for her family  for this holiday she believes that Green  
Flag should  pay towards the cost of this as it was more expensive than what she wouldve 
paid had she been able to use her touring caravan.  Green Flag declined to do this. It said as 
this was booked  after her caravan had been  stolen  and in another  persons name and it 
didnt think it needed to cover the cost of this.
While I understand that Miss W still wanted  to take this holiday, I dont agree that Green Flag 
needed to pay for a static caravan for her to do so. It had reimbursed her for the six-man  tent 
for the purpose  of her not missing out on a third holiday and so I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for it to expect that she couldve used this for the third holiday.
Ref: DRN78228504Having thought carefully about the circumstances of the missed  holidays Im satisfied that 
Green flag did all it could  to give Miss W the opportunity  not to miss them. In the first two it 
was Miss Ws choice  to miss them, although I do accept  the circumstances of each  wasnt 
exactly as she would  have wanted  or had planned  them to be, Green flag did offer 
alternatives. Miss W did go on the third holiday and I recognise  it did cost her more than it 
wouldve done had her caravan not been  stolen. But again Im satisfied Green Flag provided 
an alternative that Miss W couldve used for this but chose not to. 
When looking at the compensation  Green  Flag has awarded I have also considered  the cost 
of the tent which  Miss W now has to keep and enjoy going forward and the cost of the static 
caravan it paid for Miss B and her family to enjoy on the first holiday. And when looking at 
this alongside  the £500 payment,  I think Green  Flag has done  enough  in the circumstances. 
It follows I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822850