K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about a Hire Purchase (HP) agreement he entered  into for a used vehicle, 
using finance  through  Black Horse Limited (BHL). He feels the vehicle was mis-sold as he 
was told it had a full service history  when he asserts it did not. Further,  he believes GAP  
insurance was added to the finance  agreement without his knowledge, and there  were  also 
problems with the vehicles brakes.
background
Mr W acquired a used  vehicle from a dealer under an HP agreement with BHL in December 
2018. It was roughly five years old and had 34,988  miles  recorded  at that time. Mr W said 
the vehicle was supplied with a full service history, and it had been advertised  as such. But 
he said the manufacturer had confirmed to him that the vehicle had missed a service in 
September 2018, and had he known that, he wouldnt have entered  into the HP agreement. 
BHL believe  the vehicle does have a full service history and dont think the vehicle was mis-
sold.
As far as the GAP  insurance is concerned BHL deny this was added to the agreement  and 
highlight that the agreement makes  no mention of it. They  have also confirmed  that Mr W 
has never had GAP insurance  for this vehicle, and so do not accept it has done anything  
wrong. As far as the brakes are concerned  BHL accept that the brakes required some  
maintenance repair but say that they carried this out free of charge.
Mr W was unhappy with BHLs response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  into 
the complaint.  Having  done so she didnt think BHL had done  anything wrong because she 
couldnt find there had been any misrepresentation. Mr W disagreed with that view and so 
the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here and I can 
understand why Mr W felt he needed to make a complaint,  since on the face of the vehicles 
service documentation,  there appears  to be a discrepancy. 
The agreed facts  are that the vehicle was sold on the basis that it had a full service history.  
The vehicles documents record that it was serviced on 17 September  2015 at 14,190 miles, 
then on the 3 January 2019 at 35,284  miles. But, our adjudicator also found out that the 
vehicle had a second service on the 24 August 2017 at 28,182 miles. 
Ref: DRN78966772When Mr W acquired the vehicle it had done 34,988 miles,  and that was in December 2018. 
I accept that the vehicles  service booklet shows the second service  to be missing, but as a 
fact it was carried out. As the manufacturer states the vehicle  requires a service every 2 
years, or every 18,000  to 20,000 miles,  the vehicle has been serviced in line with those 
guidelines, despite the production of the screenshot evidence by Mr W appearing to show a 
service was required in 2018. So the vehicle has been properly serviced and there has been 
no mis-representation of the vehicle when  it was sold
Looking at the issue of GAP insurance, the evidence available  shows that GAP insurance 
was not sold.  I appreciate  Mr W initially thought it had been,  but our adjudicator  has 
questioned BHL and found  as a fact it was not. There is no evidence provided to the contrary  
that it was and so I cannot say there has been  any mis-selling of this product.
Finally, in relation  to the vehicles brakes  BHL have  accepted that following delivery of the 
vehicle, the brakes  required  attention but make the point that they had them properly 
repaired free of charge. In my view that is entirely reasonable in the context of a used car 
sale. 
What I need to decide is whether BHL acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr W. I 
have found the vehicle  was sold with a full service  history, and that there was no GAP 
insurance sold. It is unfortunate  that there was an issue  with the brakes,  but BHL rectified 
that when made aware of the problem. So I cant say it has acted unfairly and I cant say it 
has done anything  wrong. 
I do know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for similar reasons so Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Black Horse  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7896677