K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mrs E bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint, and Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mrs Es store card.  
There is a section titled Account Cover   there  is a brief description  of the cover.  In the 
section it says Only  sign this box if you require Account Cover  - Mrs E has signed in the 
box, so I think this reflected what she wanted.  If she didnt want the PPI she could have left 
the box blank  or questioned this at the time. So I think FICL made Mrs E aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs E  so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But FICL did have  to give Mrs E enough  information to allow her to decide  for herself 
whether or not to take the PPI.
Its possible  the information  FICL gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been  and she says it wasnt.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   for 
example, she was in full time employment and shes said she didnt suffer with any pre-
existing medical conditions. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  at the time. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mrs Es comments, including what  shes said about not needing the 
PPI cover because  she was entitled three months full sick pay followed by three months half 
sick pay from her employer if shed  been  too ill to work. But this policy wouldve helped cover 
her payments  if shed  lost her job or been  too ill to work until the full balance was repaid, or 
until she returned to work   and this would  have been in addition  to any sick pay she 
mightve got and for longer than her sick pay would  have lasted. 
Ref: DRN72876202Mrs E has also said she could  have  relied  on her savings to help with the repayments   but this 
policy would also have  paid in addition to any savings she may have had and she could have kept 
her savings intact for other important  living  expenses. 
So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Mrs Es circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  useful to her and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Mrs E lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019..
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287620