K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) provided poor service when 
he claimed under his home emergency  cover after his central heating boiler stopped  
working.
background
Mr D has a type of home emergency cover that is meant to provide some assistance in a 
number of different  scenarios. On this occasion  Mr Ds boiler stopped  working and he asked  
for help.  RSA agreed it could help Mr D.
RSA couldnt send a contractor the same day, but said it would pay Mr D up to his policy 
limit (£200) if he got his own contractor  in. And it said it would pay Mr D up to £60 for any 
temporary heaters.  It sent Mr D £51.97 for these when Mr D sent in a receipt.
Mr D agreed that RSAs contractor should visit the next day. He said he thought  the problem 
was the circuit board,  but that there might be asbestos in the boiler.  Thats a potential  health 
and safety problem, so he wouldnt do anything further until this had been checked.
Mr D was very upset that this left him and his family in a house without heat  and potentially  
with asbestos  issues. He thinks he should have  been offered alternative accommodation and 
given assistance  to try to sort things out. And he didnt  think the problem was with the circuit 
board. Instead  he says RSA has refused to help and provided  really poor service. He says 
he had no choice but to take out a loan for £1,500 to pay for a new boiler.
When he complained,  RSA said it didnt think it had done much wrong  and that Mr D 
hadnt provided any independent  evidence to show there wasnt asbestos. 
Unhappy, Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think RSA needed to do more  than it had. She thought  it fair that RSA 
stop any work on the boiler if there was a chance it was contaminated with asbestos. She 
thought it was for Mr D to provide  evidence that wasnt the case if, as he thinks, the 
contractor was wrong about asbestos.
Mr D remains  unhappy so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr D has been worried by the thought his boiler might have contained asbestos. 
And I understand why he thinks RSA hasnt treated him very well. But Im not going to 
uphold his complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mr D made  a claim for help under  the emergency cover part of his home insurance. That 
provides help up to the value of £200. It came free with his home  insurance.  So RSAs  
obligations under  this cover are limited to that amount.
Ref: DRN75453392RSA has refunded Mr D the cost of some temporary  heaters. It gave Mr D the amount he 
spent on these  about £52. I think thats fair.
The contractor said he thought there  might  be asbestos in the boiler. He wanted an 
independent survey to confirm  if this was present or not before  he started work. RSA says 
the contractor has a list of boilers  that may contain asbestos  and Mr Ds boiler is on that 
list. So I dont think its unreasonable for the contractor to ask for the check before work  was 
done. Mr D didnt get that survey done, but instead chose to buy a new boiler.
I appreciate Mr Ds feelings about the competency of the contractor. But I think  RSA is 
entitled to rely on the views of the contractor.  And as Mr D hasnt provided any expert  
opinion as to either  the cause of the fault  or the presence (or not) of asbestos, I cant  say it 
should do more  than it has.
Mr D says RSA should  have offered him and his family alternative accommodation and didnt 
mark the boiler as condemned. Im not persuaded either was necessary. The asbestos 
would only have been an issue if the contractor  had disturbed it  which  he hadnt. So there  
was no need for the boiler to be labelled unsafe  or condemned. And Mr D and his family did 
have heating, albeit of a temporary nature. Even if alternative accommodation had been 
appropriate, Mr D only had £200 of cover. RSA says that was used up by the contractors 
visit. So RSA wouldnt have been obliged to do more than it has.
I dont think RSA did much wrong  here. I understand the whole situation was stressful  for 
Mr D and his family.  Unfortunately having a boiler break down, having to make  a claim and 
deal with the situation is stressful. But RSA isnt responsible for that, and I dont think  it did 
anything unreasonable that made  this worse.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7545339