K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that The Car Finance Company  (2007) Ltd (TCFC) provided him with an 
unaffordable hire-purchase agreement and refused to help when  he had difficulties making  
his payments.
Background
In February 2015,  TCFC entered into a hire purchase agreement with Mr B to finance the 
purchase of a used  car. The purchase price  was £6,118.00. Mr S paid a deposit of £100  and 
the remaining  £6,018.00 was funded through a hire purchase loan from TCFC. The loan had 
an annual percentage rate (APR) of 49.56% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of £292.82. This meant interest of £4,513.52 was payable and the total to be 
repaid under  the agreement was £10,641.52.
In November 2015, the vehicle was voluntarily surrendered to TCFC after a number of 
missed payments and the parties  were unable to reach agreement on a repayment plan. 
TCFC sold the vehicle  and reduced the remaining balance before selling the outstanding 
balance to a third-party  debt purchaser. The amount owing had been  in dispute but I 
understand that it has now been reduced to the voluntary  termination  amount due under the 
agreement. 
Mr S made a complaint about TCFCs  actions  when entering into the agreement  and in 
relation to its actions  when he wasnt  able to make payments. TCFC didnt  uphold  Mr S 
complaint. It said that its checks confirmed  that the finance was affordable  and so it was 
reasonable to lend.  It also said that as it wasnt able to reach an agreement  on a repayment 
plan with Mr S it decided to collect the vehicle as Mr S requested it to. Mr S was dissatisfied  
at TCFCs response and referred the complaint to our service.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our investigators.  He didnt think that TCFC  had 
done anything  wrong or that it had treated Ms S unfairly. Mr S disagreed  so the complaint  
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide  Mr S complaint. 
TCFC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that TCFC needed  to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high,  or the information the lender had  such  as an impaired  credit  history 
 suggested the lender needed to know more about  a prospective borrowers ability  to repay. 
Ref: DRN79512992Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
The information Ive seen suggests  that TCFC proceeded  with this application and agreed to 
lend after an income and expenditure calculation was carried  out with Mr S. From what  I can 
see Mr S income was verified and TCFC also carried  out a credit check on him. It says the 
income information Mr S provided together with most of his existing commitments being up-
to-date showed  that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing  to. 
And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. On the other  hand, Mr S says the 
payments were unaffordable and this would have been apparent from his bank statements.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr S and TCFC  have said. The first thing  for me to say is 
that TCFC wasnt required to obtain  bank statements  from Mr S before lending  to him. What  
it needed to do was request enough information to get an understanding  of his income and 
expenditure and determine whether he could make his payments. Nonetheless it looks  a 
partial bank statement was obtained from Mr S in order  to verify his income, a credit  check  
was carried out and relatively  detailed income  an expenditure assessment was conducted. 
This all suggested that Mr S would be able to make  the payments. 
I accept its possible that if TCFC  carried out even more checks and requested even more 
bank statements this might have shown the repayments were  unaffordable. But I think what  
TCFC saw was enough for it to have met its obligations  here  namely  determine  whether 
Mr S income and living expenses (his credit commitments were  already validated by the 
credit search) were  broadly in line with what he declared?  and crucially  there  wasnt 
anything in the information gathered that was contradictory or which  indicated  that further  
checks should be carried out. 
Furthermore, it seems to me that Mr S started to experience difficulty  with the payments 
when his circumstances changed and his living  expenses unexpectedly increased  as a 
result. But Mr S says that this happened  a couple  of months after he purchased the car and I 
dont think that TCFC  can fairly be expected to have anticipated this, or that this means the 
payments were unaffordable at the outset.   
So overall and having carefully considered  everything, Im satisfied that TCFCs  checks 
before entering  into this hire purchase  agreement with Mr S did go far enough.  And as they 
appear to have suggested that Mr S could  make the repayments, I dont think that it did 
anything wrong  or treated Mr S unfairly when it entered into this hire purchase  agreement 
with him.
Ive also thought about what  Mr S has said about  how he was treated once he started having 
difficulties making his payments in July 2015. The notes  and copies of emails provided 
suggest there was a discussion about the arrears at this stage and Mr S discussed  the 
possibility of the car being handed  back. It looks like Mr S account  remained in arrears and 
in September  2015 Mr S asked for the car to be collected as it had been  immobilised  by 
TCFC  for non-payment  and he couldnt drive it back. TCFC eventually took possession 
of the car in November 2015.
A lender does  have an obligation  to exercise  forbearance should a borrower say theyre 
experiencing financial difficulty. Generally speaking, wed expect a lender to listen  to a 
borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and discuss  what help is appropriate. 
It does look like TCFC  did try to reach an accommodation with Mr S to repay the arrears due 
Ref: DRN79512993on his account  and it didnt immediately seek to repossess the vehicle.  But Mr S wasnt able 
to meet  this commitment and was moving  further  and further away  from the terms of the 
initial agreement. 
Ive given careful thought to what Mr S has said about the fairness of his car having been 
immobilised. I dont know what if anything Mr S was told about this possibility at the time he 
bought his car. But given  what hes said about  wanting and needing  a car in order to secure 
a promotion at work and having  unsuccessfully attempted to obtain finance elsewhere, I 
dont think I can say that Mr S would  have declined to go ahead with the sale if he was told 
more about this at the time.
Turning now to TCFCs actions when  immobilising Mr S car, I agree that a lender using such  
a tactic in order  to force a borrower  who may be struggling financially to make  payments to 
its debt ahead of other  priority ones would be unfair. But I dont think  thats what  happened in 
this case. I say this because I cant see that Mr S did make  any payments once the car was 
immobilised. He instead asked for TCFC to collect the car and for him to be able to exit the 
agreement. 
So, in this case, I dont think that TCFC  did unfairly leverage Mr S into paying its debt ahead 
of other  perhaps more  pressing ones. And while it might have added repossession  fees onto 
the balance, I understand  that these  have since been removed and Mr S has been  placed in 
the position of voluntarily  terminating the agreement.  As this is the case, I dont think  that 
TCFC treated him unfairly  in relation to this matter.      
Overall I dont think that TCFC has treated Mr S unfairly in relation to his hire purchase 
agreement. Although Im not upholding  this complaint, Id like remind  TCFC of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance  if it intends to collect the outstanding balance remaining on the 
account and its the case that Mr S is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7951299