K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) handled his request to reactivate 
a dormant bank  account and get a new debit card. 
background
In 2018 Mr S contacted BOIs telephone  banking service to reactivate  a bank account thatd 
been dormant  since 2014. He was told that he needed to visit a local branch,  which  he did. 
During that visit Mr S says that he was interrogated  for over half an hour by the front desk 
staff member. And that they kept going into a back office and returning with more questions. 
He was then told to make an appointment for another day. By this point he says that he had 
been made to feel like hed done something  illegal. So he closed his account  and left. 
Mr S complained to BOI about this treatment. He also said that the telephone banking  
service shouldve told him about  the questions hed be asked in branch. If hed known this 
then he wouldve decided  not to go through the process and wouldve closed his account 
straight away. 
BOI explained that it treats  reactivation  of dormant  accounts as though the customer is 
opening a new account. This means, for example, asking questions around  what the account 
will be used  for. It also said that the questions it asks are part of anti-money laundering 
legislation and are not optional.
BOI accepted that the front desk staff member had to keep going into a back  office. But 
explained that this was because they were new to the role so needed help and guidance  
with the questions.  
BOI also explained that as reactivation of an account is dealt with in-branch, its telephone  
banking service agents wouldnt provide any advice about the process.  The agents also 
wouldnt be able to foresee what difficulties might  arise in-branch, or how long the process  
would take, as each reactivation is looked  at on a case by case  basis. 
But BOI nevertheless  offered Mr S £50 compensation for the way he says the in-branch 
process made him feel.
Mr S didnt accept BOIs explanation and offer and brought  his complaint to our service. Hed 
like his account reactivated. Or, failing that, hed like increased compensation. 
Our investigator thought that the £50 compensation already  offered  was a reasonable 
amount. Mr S didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.   I think BOIs £50 offer of compensation is fair.  
Ill explain  why.
I accept that Mr S wasnt told about  the process of reactivating a dormant bank account 
when he telephoned  the bank. BOI has explained that telephone agents are not expected to 
Ref: DRN79974392know what is needed to reopen an account and I have seen in the terms  and conditions, 
Personal banking a guide, that reactivating an account is not an included service.  
So I do not think that the telephone service had to tell Mr S about the questions he would be 
asked in branch.  In any event, even if Mr S had been given a general indication  of the 
questions, I think  he would have still gone  into branch. I say this because he wouldnt have 
been able to close his account  over the phone as that is also a service the telephone 
banking doesnt  offer.
Having considered what Mr S told us about his visit to the branch,  and having  looked at what  
BOI has told us about the questions it asked and why it asked them, I dont  think  BOI acted 
incorrectly. I say this because page 4 of the terms and conditions  gives  a flavour  of the kind 
of information  that BOI needs to open  a bank  account. And it treats  reactivation the same as 
opening a bank account. So its clear  that reactivating a bank  account  is not simply a request 
that is automatically granted. 
I also accept that it wasnt  unreasonable for BOI to ask the questions given the long period 
of inactivity on the bank account.  As BOI says, under anti-money laundering legislation,  it 
needs to ensure understanding of, amongst other  things, how an account will be used. This 
is something it has to do for all customers and isnt personal to Mr S.   
Despite this, BOI has offered an apology to Mr S for the trouble and upset he says he was 
caused. So Ive gone onto consider whether that offer is a fair and reasonable one.
I do not believe that Mr S was pressurised into closing  his account. I say this because 
theres nothing in the nature of the questions that wouldve suggested  that Mr S should close  
his account, nor encouraged him to do so.
I accept that the in-branch  process took longer than it would normally because  of the new 
front desk  staff member.  Understandably, this would have frustrated Mr S. And I think its this 
frustration that led him to close the account, not because he was pressurised.
For these reasons, I think the £50 already offered fairly reflects the fact that although BOI did 
nothing wrong  with the questions asked it did cause Mr S frustration, as the process  took 
longer than it shouldve done.  As an aside,  BOI has also said that it cant  now re-open his 
old account Mr S account. But it would be happy to open a new one for him. So its open  to 
Mr S to contact BOI to do this if he wants to.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, it is my final decision that the apology  and offer of £50 
compensation made by Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already 
done so, Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc should now pay Mr S £50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79974393
Ref: DRN7997439