K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) hasnt agreed to pay enough to 
replace his carpet following  a claim for accidental damage. 
background
Mr S has a home  contents  insurance policy with Ageas. 
Mr S has a through  lounge in his house.  He said this used to be a separate dining room  and 
lounge, but around 30 years  ago, a wall was removed to make  the space a through  lounge. 
He said since then,  the space has always been decorated as one room, with one continuous  
carpet. He said he later installed some sliding  doors  where the wall had previously been  to 
enable him to conserve heat in the winter. However, he said the doors are usually left open. 
Mr S has an artificial fire in his through lounge. When the fire was in use, one of the artificial 
coals fell from the fire onto the carpet. The hot coal stuck to the carpet and damaged it. Mr S 
made a claim for the damaged carpet  on his policy. 
Ageas investigated  the claim and said it would pay to replace the carpet  in the lounge  area 
of the space, but not the dining  area.  It offered to pay £558.75 in cash  or £685.53  in 
vouchers, although  it also said a £50 excess would be deducted. The original carpet which  
had been laid was no longer available, so a similar  carpet was going to be supplied. 
Mr S said Ageas loss adjuster had told him that the cost to replace the entire carpet was 
£1,350, so he didnt think the £558.75  hed been  offered was enough. Ageas said it didnt 
think the loss adjuster  had given that figure,  and said the total amount to replace the whole 
carpet was £1,114.73.
Mr S complained. He said his carpet  was one continuous piece which covered the whole 
through lounge  area. He said if Ageas only replaced  part of the carpet, there  would have to 
be an obvious join or bar between  the old and new carpets, which he was unhappy  with. 
He also said that the carpets  wouldnt match. 
Mr S said he wanted Ageas to cover the cost of replacing the whole carpet, but said if he 
was only covered to have  half of the carpet replaced, he thought the amount hed been 
offered was too low, as it didnt seem  to represent half of the cost.
Ageas said itd assessed the claim correctly and in line with the policy terms. It said it 
regarded the lounge and dining areas as separate. And said it was only required to replace 
the carpet in the room or area where  the damage  had taken place. It maintained it would 
only pay the cost of replacing  the carpet in the lounge area.  
Unhappy with Ageas response,  Mr S brought his complaint to us. An investigator  looked into 
what had happened, and upheld the complaint. He said he thought Ageas should cover  the 
cost of replacing the whole carpet.  
Mr S was satisfied with this, but Ageas disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make  a 
decision. Ageas said cover was only provided  for the carpet in the damaged room or area, 
and it said it considered the areas  to be separate due to the doors  which are in place. It said 
it accepted that an exact match for the original carpet wasnt possible, but it still maintained it 
should only pay to replace  the carpet in the damaged area. 
Ref: DRN79282072Mr S has since evidenced  that hes replaced the whole carpet  in his through lounge. The 
cost of this was £1,370.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Mr Ss claim, Ageas has relied on the following  policy term. 
Matching carpets  
If you have a matching  carpet or other  floor covering  in more  than one room  or area, 
each room or area will be regarded as being  separate. Under the contents  section, 
only damage to the carpet in the room or area where the damage  happened will be 
covered. 
Ageas said it considers  Mr Ss space to be two separate areas, and because of this its said 
it will only replace the carpet in the lounge area, where the carpet was damaged.  
Ive seen photos of Mr Ss through lounge. Ageas said it considers the space to be two 
separate areas, as there are doors which  can be closed to section off the space. However, 
I can see from the photos that there  is no door bar or any other  join or break in the carpet. 
Also, Mr S has said that the doors are usually left open and he uses  the space as one, and 
I accept this. I think the through lounge with its continuous piece of carpet  is one area, and 
so I dont think its reasonable  for Ageas to rely on this policy term.
If the claim was settled in the way Ageas set out, Mr S wouldnt have the same seamless 
carpeting through the space that hed had before  hed have two separate carpets which  
dont match,  and an obvious join between the two. I dont think  this would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mr S, so Ageas should  cover the cost of replacing the whole carpet. 
Mr S also complained that he thought  the amount he was offered  to replace half of his carpet 
was too low. He said it represented less than half of the amount Ageas loss adjuster had 
told him replacing the entire carpet would cost. Ageas  said this was a misunderstanding, and 
I accept this, as the total of the quotes  Ive seen  is £1,114.73 and Ageas offered to pay 
£558.75, less the policy excess. In view of my opinion that Ageas should replace the entire 
carpet, this issue wouldnt  make a difference to the outcome here. 
Im aware that Mr S went ahead with replacing  the entire carpet in his through  lounge. Hes 
provided evidence  that he paid £1,370 for this. I dont think  it would be fair to expect Mr S to 
have continued  to wait to have his damaged carpet  replaced. Theres not a great difference  
between the amount Ageas loss adjuster  quoted and the amount Mr S spent, plus Ageas 
quote included  a discount. So I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. Because of this 
Ill require Ageas to reimburse Mr S. 
Ref: DRN79282073my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. 
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to: 
pay Mr S the total replacement carpet  cost of £1,370 less the applicable excess;
and add interest* of 8% simple  per year to the claim settlement amount Mr S has 
already paid, from the date he paid it until the settlement  date. 
*If Ageas considers  it should deduct income  tax from any 8% interest  element  of my award  it 
may do so, but should give Mr S the necessary certificate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7928207