K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wont repair  her car which  she acquired under a 
conditional sale agreement with it.
background
Miss M acquired  her BMW 1 series car under  a conditional sale agreement  in December 
2017. The car had recently  passed its MOT.  At the time it had done about 53,000 miles and 
was seven years old. 
In March 2018 the car lost power and Miss M arranged for it to be towed to a garage,  by this 
time she had driven an additional 9,000 miles. She contacted  Moneybarn  who arranged  an 
inspection of the car and it was found the timing chain had broken and she needed  a new 
engine. But Moneybarn refused to cover  the cost as it said this was down to wear and tear. It 
did, however, pass on an offer from the dealership of £500  towards  to cost of replacing  the 
engine. Not happy with that Miss M asked  us to look into matter.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Moneybarn had shown the 
timing chain breaking was due to wear and tear  there was no engineers  report identifying 
the cause. 
Moneybarn didnt agree  with the outcome. But it did agree to arrange an independent 
inspection to be carried out. Initially it said it didnt know the location of the car; which was 
where it had been  towed  to. And then it said the garage were charging  significant storage 
fees and couldnt arrange the inspection until they were paid. It didnt think they were 
responsible for these  since it had turned down Miss Ms complaint. 
It did ultimately arrange the inspection which concluded the timing chain breaking was likely 
due to wear and tear. But the investigator  continued  to uphold the complaint, pointing out no 
inspection of the actual timing  chain had taken place as the engine  had remained in place. 
So she didnt find the report  persuasive. And as the timing chain had broken at around  
62,000 miles she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality as it wasnt sufficiently 
durable. 
Moneybarn asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Since then I asked for 
further information. Moneybarn has confirmed:
It paid the storage  charges for the car and these have  been added to Miss Ms 
agreement with it. 
It now has the car in storage.
Miss M stopped making repayments to the agreement when she received its final 
response to the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint on 27 February 2019. I 
recommended Moneybarn either arrange for a repair of the car, but if that wasnt  possible or 
economical, then it should  either replace the car with a like for like car or write off the 
remaining balance of the finance agreement  and reimburse associated costs,  including the 
garage costs. 
Miss M confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt provide any further comment.  
Moneybarn has said it will carry out the second recommendation  write  off the remaining 
Ref: DRN77542842balance of the finance agreement, if it was confirmed this was an unwinding of the 
agreement so it would retain the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Miss M acquired  the car using a conditional sale agreement in December 2017. When 
products are acquired on finance through a conditional sale agreement or a hire purchase 
agreement there is a transaction going on the background  that means the seller sells the 
product to the finance provider, who in turn hires  it to the customer  until final payment is 
made. 
So as the finance provider  Moneybarn  is responsible for the quality of the car provided. And 
because the car was acquired in December  2017,  the relevant legislation for me to take 
account of is the Consumer  Rights Act 2015. In summary, this means the car provided using 
the agreement  should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality encompasses a number 
of different  factors, such as durability, safety,  being free from minor  defects,  appearance  and 
whether it was fit for purpose. 
When deciding whether something was of satisfactory quality, there  are a number of things 
to consider, such as the age and mileage  of the car. This car was seven years old and had 
done over 53,000 miles so its likely it would have shown signs  of wear  and tear. Moneybarn 
wouldnt be responsible  for any wear  and tear as this isnt a defect or fault but it would be 
responsible for any defects or faults you wouldnt expect  (or reasonably  be aware  of) for a 
car of this age and mileage.
Miss Ms car broke down within four months of acquiring it. By this time she had driven it a 
further 9,000 miles. 
Under the Act goods  which do not conform to contract at any time within a period of six 
months beginning on the day on which the goods  were delivered, are taken to have  not 
conformed on that day. The presumption  under  the Act applies unless it can be shown that it 
doesnt. Miss M raised  problems with her car within four months. So what I must consider is 
whether Moneybarn has shown the car was of sufficient quality when it was sold.
My research has shown that timing  chains, as opposed to timing belts, should last the 
lifetime of the car unless there is actually something  wrong with it. Whereas timing belts  are 
less durable and usually need  to be replaced between 80,000-100,000 miles.  However,  my 
research has also shown  this lifetime expectation  wouldnt  apply if the car hadnt been  
properly maintained or if a design  or manufacturing  fault led to excessive wear on the chain. 
Miss M wouldnt  be responsible for any design or manufacturing fault.  But she might be 
responsible if she hadnt  properly maintained the car. 
Ive considered the reports that Moneybarn had carried out. The first inspection simply 
concluded the timing  chain  had broken. But it gave  no reason for that; it was just a statement 
of what was wrong with the car. I therefore  dont find it persuasive. 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection to be carried  out. But it didnt arrange for 
the engine to be removed so that a full inspection  could take place. As the onus is on 
Ref: DRN77542843Moneybarn to show the presumption in the Act doesnt apply, I consider it should have 
arranged this. The report shows  the engineer was unable  to inspect the timing  chain or the 
associated components. So although  the engineer did conclude  the timing  chain likely broke  
due to wear and tear, I dont find this conclusion  persuasive when an examination  of the part 
in question didnt  take place. 
Although Miss M had driven an additional 9,000  miles, this car had relatively low mileage 
considering its age  53,000 miles for a seven year old car. I think  a reasonable person 
would expect a timing chain to last longer than it did, particularly as its not a component of 
the car expected to wear  in the same  way as other components. Indeed,  Moneybarns  
engineer only established that in Miss M driving  the car 9,000  miles, it alluded to the problem 
not being present when the credit was incepted  and he was silent on the durability of the 
failed chain. As there is no persuasive  evidence Miss M didnt maintain the car properly, Im 
satisfied there is sufficient doubt  about the durability of the timing chain, such that I find the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was acquired. And because of that I dont find    
Miss M is liable for any costs of repairing the engine. 
Moneybarn has told us that it paid for the storage costs at the garage, although it has added 
these to Miss Ms agreement. I appreciate it didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. But Miss M 
asked us to get involved  within a matter  of days of receiving its final response.  So the matter 
was still being  considered  during that time.  Moneybarn knew  of the location  of the car as it 
had arranged the first inspection,  but I havent seen any evidence that it told Miss M she 
would need to move the car and I dont think this would have been obvious  just from its final 
response. 
I understand Miss M has been  able to use her fathers car whilst this car has been waiting for 
repair. So she hasnt been  put to the inconvenience of not being mobile  although having to 
borrow someone elses car is an inconvenience  of itself. Ive also been made aware that 
Miss M hasnt been making her repayments to the conditional sale agreement  and 
Moneybarn has held in abeyance any arrears proceedings during that time (although  arrears  
notices have been sent as required by regulations) which I consider  it was fair to do. And I 
have borne all this in mind  when deciding what Moneybarn needs  to do to put this matter 
right. 
how Moneybarn need to put this right
Moneybarn considers the repairs to the car are likely to be significant  and it has agreed to 
redress Miss M using one of the recommendations I made in my provisional decision. It has 
asked for confirmation  this is an unwinding of the agreement  that means it retains the car. 
As the car was acquired using a conditional sale agreement, the car remains  Moneybarns  
property until all payments have been made. My recommended redress  in this matter  means  
Miss M can walk away from the agreement, without having to make any further  payments to 
Moneybarn and Moneybarn retains  the car. I require  Moneybarn  to:
write off the remaining  balance of the finance agreement  (including arrears and 
garage costs) at no further cost to Miss M; and
it should reimburse the deposit Miss M made  towards the car - £400; and
clear her credit history  in relation  to the finance agreement; and
reimburse any costs Miss M incurs for changing  her car insurance, on provision of 
reasonable evidence of her changing the car insured and her paying any associated 
administration cost.
Ref: DRN77542844 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Moneybarn No.1  Limited  to 
redress Miss Ms complaint  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7754284