K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about the rate HSBC  UK Bank Plc applied to an international money  
transfer she made to her UK account from an account she held overseas.
background
On 24 May 2019 Mrs F contacted HSBC to explain that she was intending to send a 
payment of €347000 from an account  she held overseas to her HSBC account. She said she 
asked for information  about the exchange rate HSBC would apply when the payment  
reached her UK account. 
HSBC said it told Mrs F that it couldnt give her a rate as this would depend when the 
payment reached  HSBC.  And it explained that once her payment had been received it would 
convert it from Euro to Sterling and credit  the converted amount to her account. It also said it 
provided Mrs F with an exchange  rate of 1.12089 and advised that this was an indicative 
rate only that could  change.
Mrs F went ahead with her transfer and on 27 May 2019 HSBC  received her payment of 
€347000. It converted this amount from Euro to Sterling the same day and said the 
exchange rate that it applied was 1.1454. This resulted in just under  £303000 crediting 
Mrs Fs account.  
But Mrs F was expecting  £309000 to credit  her account. So, on 28 May 2019, Mrs F 
contacted HSBC to raise  concerns about the amount of money that had credited her 
account. She told HSBC  she was expecting it to use the more favourable exchange  rate that 
had been mentioned to her four days earlier. 
After HSBC investigated Mrs Fs complaint it said the rate it had mentioned  to her on 24 May 
was an indication rate only and that she was aware  it was subject to change. It also said an 
exact rate could  only be provided at the time it processed the payment because it uses  a live 
rate that changes  every 40 seconds. So it didnt  think it had done anything wrong. But it did 
credit Mrs Fs account with £50 as a goodwill payment to reflect  the fact that her call on 24 
May 2019 had been unnecessarily long. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with HSBCs response to her complaint and referred  it to our service. 
She felt HSBC had misled  her as to the exchange rate it would apply to her transfer. And 
she said the difference between what she was expecting to receive and what  she actually 
received had led to financial difficulties because  she was intending to use this money to 
purchase a family home. So, to resolve her complaint she wanted HSBC  to make up the 
difference between  the rate she said it agreed  to apply to her transaction and the actual rate 
that it applied.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint and empathised with her. But they didnt think  
HSBC had done anything wrong  or needed  to do anything more here. And they thought the 
£50 goodwill payment it had made to Mrs F for the service she had received during her 
telephone call on 24 May was reasonable. Mrs F disagreed and asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN73154662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I understand that Mrs F 
is frustrated by the exchange rate applied  by HSBC to her transfer. But Im not persuaded to 
uphold her complaint.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained to Mrs F there isnt a single exchange  rate for a currency that 
banks must  track or replicate because each bank  sets its own exchange  rate, which  is based  
on market conditions. So, exchange rates can differ from bank to bank. 
Here, HSBC applies its own exchange rate at the point  that money is received and those 
rates can vary and change every 40 seconds.  This means HSBC can only give an exact 
exchange rate at the time it processes the transaction. And this explains why HSBC  can only 
give indicative currency exchange rates to customers prior to a payment being  received. 
Im persuaded there was a legitimate  reason why HSBC couldnt tell Mrs F what  exchange 
rate it would use to convert the money  she was transferring  to her account from abroad . It 
couldnt have  predicted when the funds would be received  or the rate it would apply on a 
future date.  
HSBC says it told Mrs F it could only provide her with an indicative rate prior to her making 
her transfer.  And it explained that the exchange rate it would use would depend  on the rate 
that applied when it received her funds. During the telephone discussion Mrs F had with 
HSBC prior to her transfer taking place  Im satisfied it told her clearly  about the indicative 
rate and that this rate was subject to change.  Mrs F confirmed she understood this. 
Overall, I think HSBC  gave Mrs F enough  information about its process when  money is 
received from abroad to help her understand that the exchange rate wasnt  known at the 
point she asked the bank what rate it would apply to her transfer. She chose to proceed with 
her money transfer having been  that given information by HSBC. And I think  that, when she 
made that choice, she ought reasonably to have known that the exchange rate would be 
determined at the time the funds had been  received from the foreign bank. So, I cant fairly 
find that HSBC did anything wrong  or that it gave Mrs F incorrect information.
HSBC received Mrs Fs funds three days after it had discussed  the indicative rate with her. 
And I can see that HSBC  converted  those  funds from Euro  to Sterling using an exchange 
rate of 1.1454. Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that when HSBC converted the 
money Mrs F transferred  it used the exchange  rate that applied at the time the money was 
received. This is in line with its procedure for payments like this. 
Mrs F feels HSBC should honour the exchange  rate it mentioned  to her during her call of 24 
May 2019. But I havent seen any evidence that she asked HSBC  to lock in a rate for her 
transfer. It follows that I cant fairly tell HSBC to apply the indicative exchange rate it 
mentioned to Mrs F three  days before it received  her payment. 
Mrs F also thinks HSBC  should have contacted her prior to converting  her funds from Euro 
to Sterling to inform her of the exchange rate it would  apply. But given the above, I dont 
think it needed to contact her before it converted her money  to sterling.  
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I accept the reason why HSBC couldnt  tell Mrs F 
what exchange rate it would  apply when the money credited her account.  But I do agree that 
Ref: DRN73154663the duration of Mrs Fs call to HSBC  on 24 May 2019 was unnecessarily protracted. And I 
think it could have  been handled  better by HSBC. I can see that HSBC has already 
acknowledged that Mrs F received poor service  during that call by apologising and crediting 
her account  with £50. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable amount, which is in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios.  
While I appreciate the reasons why Mrs F brought her complaint to our service, Im satisfied 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably here. So, Im not going ask it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7315466