K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he got with a finance  agreement from FirstRand Limited (trading 
as MotoNovo Finance)  was of unsatisfactory quality. 
 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 3 February 2020.  A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Both parties have 
responded and accepted my provisional  decision but MotoNovo asked if Mr L could obtain 
two quotes from VAT registered garages  (not main  dealers) and arrange a suitable date for 
the repairs to be completed.  MotoNovo says it will pay the repairing garage direct  and 
ensure that Mr L is not out of pocket. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know from speaking to Mr L that he would rather the supplying dealer was not involved in 
having the car fixed. So, I asked our investigator to put MotoNovos suggestion to him. Mr L 
has agreed and I think  this seems reasonable. As neither party has objected  to my 
provisional findings in any other way, I see no further reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. For the reasons I have explained, I require FirstRand  
Bank Limited  (trading  as MotoNovo Finance)  to: 
1.liaise with Mr L in making arrangements for the previous repairs to the differential to 
be rectified at no cost to Mr L (which  includes MotoNovo paying  the repairing garage  
direct); and
2.refund  the cost of the experts report.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70455402copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that a used car he got with a finance  agreement from FirstRand Bank Limited (trading  
as MotoNovo Finance) was of unsatisfactory quality. 
 
background
Mr L got this car in July 2018.  Not long after that the car broke down and had to be recovered as the 
differential imploded. Mr L contacted the supplying  dealer and it arranged  for the car to be repaired. In 
October 2018 Mr L discovered  the clutch needed replacing so he got in touch  with the dealer again. 
He says the dealer  told him this wouldnt  be covered  by the warranty so he paid a third party garage 
over £1,000 to carry out repairs. 
The garage  that did this work told Mr L the earlier repairs  were defective - bolts had been over-
tightened and this had caused the differential to crack.  Mr L had the car checked by an independent  
expert who agreed the first repairs were sub-standard and should be rectified. The expert said (in 
summary) 
the rear final drive/differential  assembly  alloy housing  is fractured, it has not been repaired to 
industry standards and there is no doubt that an incorrect repair method was undertaken;
the car is not unsafe but the repairs need to be fixed to minimise the risk of consequential  
damage occurring;
there is no evidence that the defects to the flywheel  and clutch were due to the failure or 
subsequent repair of the final drive/differential  assembly. 
Mr L lost confidence in the car and he asked MotoNovo to take it back and provide  a refund or 
replacement. 
MotoNovo says 
the dealer arranged for the first repairs  to be carried out under a third party  warranty that Mr L 
got with the car (from a company Ill refer to as A) but did not accept  liability for the issue;
the dealer provided Mr L with a courtesy car while  the repairs  were carried out as a goodwill 
gesture only;
when Mr L reported  the problem with the clutch to the dealer it told him that sounded like wear 
and tear and might not be covered under  the warranty but he should check; and 
the first repairs were covered by a 12 month guarantee  and it is As responsibility  to have any 
defective work fixed.
Mr L says he thought  the warranty the dealer referred to initially was a six months warranty from the 
dealer itself. He didnt  receive any warranty paperwork when he got the car. And he didnt know he 
had taken out a third party  warranty with A until he was sent renewal documents in December  2018.  
Mr L feels he was misled by the dealer about the warranty  cover as he has since discovered  it would  
probably have paid for the clutch repairs. He is unhappy that hes been left to pay for repairs  and the 
car still has faults. 
Our investigator recommends the complaint should  be upheld. He thinks the clutch related issues are 
likely wear and tear related - not an inherent fault or caused by the earlier repairs. In light of the 
experts conclusions, and the time Mr L had the car and the mileage covered, hes satisfied that the 
differential was probably faulty when the car was supplied. He accepts  the first repairs were carried 
out at no cost to Mr L by a third party but hes not persuaded  they were  completed properly.  He 
recommends MotoNovo should:- 
arrange for the faulty repairs to be fixed at no cost to Mr L; and 
refund the cost of the experts report. 
MotoNovo doesnt agree.  It says (in summary)  
Ref: DRN70455403the repairs that failed were carried  out under  the warranty  that A provided;
those  repairs were  subject to a 12 month guarantee;
it is As responsibility  to correct any issues; and
it is unreasonable  to hold MotoNovo responsible. 
MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
Mr L got this car with finance provided  by MotoNovo  and MotoNovo was obliged to ensure  that the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply - under  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015. The level of 
quality thats considered satisfactory varies according  to individual circumstances. In the case of a car 
its generally reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage of the vehicle  at the point of supply into 
account. 
This car was about 6 years old when  Mr L got it in July 2018. It cost just over £11,000 and had 63,000 
miles on the clock.  As such  I dont think Mr L could  reasonably expect  the car to be of the same 
quality as a new vehicle. I think  some  parts were likely to be worn and would  need to be repaired or 
replaced sooner or later - which is reflected in the lower price paid in comparison to a new car. 
the clutch  repairs
I have spoken to Mr L and explained that I dont think its unusual for a clutch  to wear out. And, given 
the age of this car and the mileage covered  when the clutch failed, I am not persuaded  this amounts  
to a fault that I can fairly hold MotoNovo responsible for.  
I think  Mr L accepts this - albeit he is unhappy because the dealer gave him the impression these 
repairs would not be covered under  the warranty. He told me he understands the clutch repairs 
probably would have been covered if hed made a claim at the time.  He feels the dealer mis-led  him 
about that and hes lost out financially as a result. 
I understand Mr Ls frustration. But, I cant be certain what was said when Mr L spoke to the dealer 
about the clutch in October 2018. And, as Ive explained to Mr L, I am looking at MotoNovos 
obligations arising  under  the finance here. I am satisfied  that I can consider  things the dealer said to 
Mr L in pre-sale  negotiations against MotoNovo - under section 56 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. 
But, I am unable to hold MotoNovo responsible  for what the dealer may have said after that. In light of 
these findings, I am not presently persuaded that I cant fairly require  MotoNovo  to refund the cost of 
the clutch  repairs. 
the differential repairs
I have somewhat limited information about this issue. But, I dont think  this is the sort of part that a 
reasonable person would expect to have to repair just weeks  after supply, in a car of this age and 
mileage. On balance, I am minded to find this is a fault that was probably present when the car was 
supplied. And, I agree  with our investigator, its more likely than not the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the outset. 
It was MotoNovos responsibility to ensure  that this car was of satisfactory  quality when Mr L got it - 
because it supplied the car under a finance agreement. As often happens  in this situation however, 
Mr L approached the supplying dealer first when  he had a problem. There  is no dispute that the 
dealer arranged  for the differential  to be repaired at no cost to Mr L and kept him mobile throughout. 
But I am satisfied  that those  repairs were not undertaken to the appropriate standard  - given  the 
experts conclusions in particular. 
Ref: DRN70455404I think  the crux of the matter  now is who should pay for the rectification work that the expert 
recommends. MotoNovo says A paid for the repairs and theyre covered under  a 12 month guarantee 
so A should pay. But, Mr L told me that he spoke to A and it said these  repairs were  not authorised 
formally under the warranty - A agreed to make  a contribution towards  the cost (which it paid to the 
supplying dealer) and the repairs were  not guaranteed.  
As far as I can tell, the supplying dealer arranged  these  repairs.  But I have not seen any related 
paperwork and I cant be certain  where  the repairs were done or who paid for them. On the 
information I have at the moment, I am satisfied that MotoNovo was liable to have this fault fixed - and 
the fact that Mr L may have had a warranty from A does  not relieve MotoNovo of this obligation. And I 
am not persuaded that the fault was fixed properly by the repairs the dealer  organised. 
I dont think its reasonable  for Mr L to be left with a car thats  in need of repair, in this situation.  
Taking all of the evidence available so far into account, I am minded to agree with our investigator 
that its fair and reasonable overall  for MotoNovo  to arrange to have the defective repairs rectified - in 
line with the experts recommendations  - at no cost to Mr L and refund the cost of the experts report. 
I now invite  the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date below. After that Ill look at all of the available evidence and make my final 
decision.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 17 February  2020,  my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to I uphold this complaint  and require
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo Finance) to
1.arrange for the repairs to the differential  to be rectified at no cost to Mr L; and
2.refund the cost of the experts report. 
Ref: DRN7045540