K820x#14complaint
Miss W says that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Miss Ws complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Miss W or Capital One sent me anything  further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions    
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN77008552copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 2003. 
Miss W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss W didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because Ive seen a copy of Miss Ws postal application form. On this form there  are 
two options for PPI. Theres an option to tick Yes to accept  PPI and an option  to tick No if 
PPI wasnt  required. A tick has been placed next to the Yes option and Miss W has signed  
the overall form  so I think this indicates what she wanted. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have  to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Miss W got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her circumstances. 
Theres been  some uncertainty over Miss Ws circumstances when she took out this policy. Ill 
give some  examples of what weve been told to highlight the inconsistencies.
oIn Miss Ws PPI questionnaire  shes stated that she was employed and not indicated 
that she was a student;
oMiss W then told us that she was employed part time in a cinema as well as studying;
oMiss W responded  to our assessment  to say that she was a student from 2002-2003 
and then left early  to start working in 2003; and 
oMiss W sent us a copy of her CV which  her representative  states shows her 
circumstances. But theres nothing to support the CV, such as records of tax, 
earnings or national insurance  contributions  for the year in question, or evidence of 
the qualification that Miss W says she was studying towards. 
For example, the CV states Miss W was employed from November 2003, but this 
policy was taken out in March 2003.  This suggests  she wasnt  working at all when 
studying - but her credit  card application form has her salary recorded on it. 
So I cant fairly place the weight that Miss W may have wanted me to on the CV as 
evidence. Miss W now has a further opportunity to provide evidence that she was 
working and studying in March 2003 when  this policy was taken  out. 
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Miss W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
Ref: DRN77008553Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful  for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means  Capital  One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Miss W about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said, but these points dont currently change my decision. I 
havent seen consistent evidence that Miss W was both employed and a student  at the time of sale.  
But as Ive already said, she now has a further  opportunity to provide evidence.  
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital  One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done this, I dont currently intend to 
award any further compensation. 
If Miss W or Capital One (Europe)  plc has anything further  to add, they should  do so by 
2 August 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7700855