K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain  via a third party representative - that their mortgage  mis-sold in 
2007. The mortgage broker was a member  of Legal  & General  Partnership Services  Limited 
(L&G) so L&G is responsible for dealing with the complaint. 
For ease of reading, throughout this decision Ill simply refer to the business  as L&G,  but that 
should be taken  to mean L&G or the actual mortgage broker as appropriate.
background
In July 2007 Mr and Mrs W spoke  to L&G about their mortgage arrangements.  They had:
An existing mortgage of about £31,600, of which £27,000 was interest-only and the 
rest was repayment. 
A mortgage interest rate fixed at 5.45% until 31 March 2008, and there was an early 
repayment charge (ERC)  of about  £640  if they repaid it before  then.  
A mortgage endowment policy that due to mature in October 2008 with a projected 
final value  of about £21,000.
A remaining mortgage term of five years, with a monthly payment of £217.
Mr and Mrs W also had an unsecured  loan with about £12,400 outstanding, an interest rate 
of 7.9%, five years remaining on the term and a monthly payment of about  £255. Once all 
their income and outgoings  were taken into account  they had a disposable  income of just 
under £40 a month.
The priority was to switch  £6,000 from interest-only  to repayment so the projected  
endowment shortfall  was due to be covered. As that would have been unaffordable  in 
isolation, a new mortgage was arranged  with a slightly longer  term of seven years and to 
include the unsecured loan. The new mortgage  completed on 28 August 2007, so if no 
further changes  were made it was due to be fully repaid in August 2014.
The representative complained to L&G about Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage in November  2017,  
and when L&G rejected the complaint they referred  it our service. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld and so the representative  asked that the case  be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
The individual things Mr and Mrs W have complained about werent inherently wrong at the 
time they took the mortgage.  Any of those elements in themselves might make  a mortgage 
unsuitable, but equally they might  not. For instance  a repayment mortgage  could  be 
unsuitable in some cases, as could a longer or shorter  term. We consider each case  on its 
individual merits and look at the circumstances, regulatory requirements and standard 
industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN73149912Its recorded that Mr and Mrs W had £27,000  of their mortgage held on an interest-only  
basis, but their endowment policy was only projected to pay out £21,000. On that basis  the 
advice to switch  that £6,000 shortfall from interest-only to repayment seems  appropriate.  
Unfortunately that switch  wasnt affordable  without  other changes  being made.
The representative has said Mr and Mrs W should  have been  advised to wait a year,  which 
would have avoided  the ERC on their existing mortgage. Ive considered this point very 
carefully, weighing up all the options and figures.  This is not at all a clear  cut issue, but on 
balance Im satisfied delaying the switch  until the ERC period ended  wouldnt have been in 
Mr and Mrs Ws best interests because Mr W was already 63 years old, and any delay would 
mean extra time after his state pension age that he and Mrs W would be paying a mortgage 
and/or a higher monthly payment would  be needed  to clear the shortfall amount. Im satisfied  
it was prudent  to take action to start to clear the shortfall  immediately, but unfortunately that 
action meant  other changes needed  to be made.
Mr and Mrs W were 63 and 61 respectively. Mrs W was already retired, and Mr W was noted 
as just having increased his hours  from part time to full time, and that he was intending to 
work until he was 75. Their mortgage had five years left to run, and that was increased to 
seven years when this remortgage  completed. Having considered everything Im satisfied 
the term increase  was both needed (for affordability reasons) and was sustainable based on 
Mr Ws employment plans. Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs W were  aware  of - and agreed  to - 
it. So Im not upholding this element of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs W consolidated an unsecured loan into their mortgage. Whilst the representative 
referred to this as a low interest rate loan, in fact it was recorded to have a rate of 7.9%, 
which was higher than the new mortgage  rate. The other problem often seen with 
consolidating debts  is that it substantially increases the time the debt is repayable  over (and 
thus increases  the interest  paid on the debt). But here the term only increased by about two 
years, so all things considered the difference in interest paid was fairly negligible.
Whilst the new interest rate was higher than that on the existing mortgage (and cost 
Mr and Mrs W an ERC to achieve) that, in itself, didnt make  the advice unsuitable. The 
adviser obtained Mr and Mrs W a longer term preferential rate (that is, for five years rather  
than the under a year that was left on their existing preferential rate). Having looked  at the 
mortgage overall which is what I must do  rather than the individual  complaint points each 
in isolation  and having looked at what Mr and Mrs W needed to achieve, Im satisfied the 
mortgage arranged  by L&G wasnt unsuitable.
Ref: DRN73149913my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7314991