K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly recorded a CIFAS marker against her 
name.  She would like to be compensated for losses suffered.
Miss S is helped in her complaint by Mr D  but for ease, I will refer to all comments  having 
made by Miss S.
background 
In November 2015, Lloyds wrote to Miss S and told her it was giving her notice that it 
intended to close  her account. It also recorded a CIFAS marker against her name  but did 
not tell Miss S at the time.
Miss S opened an account elsewhere and said she had to pay a monthly fee for doing  so.  
But in later 2018, she says a joint account  which she held with Mr D was also closed.  She 
says she found  out this was because of the fraud  marker Lloyds had loaded.
When Miss S complained  to Lloyds, it did not uphold her complaint.  It said that in 2015, 
whilst only having a balance of 16p, Miss S issued two cheques, made payable to Mr D, for 
the total of £6000.05.  She must  have  known she didnt have the funds to clear the cheques 
- and so must have  issued them with the intention of obtaining funds from Lloyds.
But Miss S explained that in 2015,  Lloyds had placed an identical marker  against Mr D too.  
It had agreed to remove it because she had explained why these cheques had been issued.  
Mr D was due a back dated benefits  payment  and this was going  to be paid into Miss Ss 
account. The payment would  have  more than covered the amount of the cheques.
Lloyds maintained its position. It says no evidence of the back dated payment was ever 
provided - so Miss S came  to this service.
Our investigator thought Lloyds could have  done more here and so she asked that it remove 
the CIFAS marker.  She did not award any compensation.
Miss S did not agree with the investigators  view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recording a CIFAS marker against a consumer is not something which banks can do 
without evidence  the bar is set very high.
So, in order to correctly  and fairly  record a marker  against Miss S, Lloyds  needed to have 
reasonable grounds for believing a fraud  or financial crime had been committed.  In addition,  
it needed clear, relevant  and rigorous evidence so that it could confidently  report  the matter 
to the police.
I cant see that Lloyds  had satisfied that test here.  In  fact, I cant see from its notes if it ever 
took a detailed account from Miss S before closing  her account and loading  the marker.   I cant 
see that there was relevant and rigorous  evidence  so the marker has been loaded unfairly.
Ref: DRN73625802financial losses
Throughout the lifetime  of this complaint, Miss S has maintained that she was seeking  
compensation for not being able to open  an account  and when she did, she had to pay a 
monthly fee. There is also mention of other losses which she says she suffered.
I can see that no evidence has ever been presented to this service which would go towards 
assisting us in quantifying that loss - and that wasnt because  we didnt ask for it.  The  
investigator requested  this from Miss S but nothing was forthcoming.
In the circumstances, I cannot fairly  make an award for financial losses.
compensation
Ive given serious consideration to the issue of compensation but in the circumstances of this 
particular complaint, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to make  an award.  There  is 
little information  on the impact  this has had on Miss S  and the removal  of the marker, in my 
mind, is a fair outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Lloyds Bank  PLC is to remove the CIFAS marker which  has been recorded against  Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7362580