K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that without prior notice Al Rayan Bank PLC made his four accounts 
dormant and provided poor service when he tried to reinstate them. 
background
Mr S complaint concerns four accounts he has with Al Rayan Bank, two of which  are joint 
accounts with his mother (Mrs S) for whom he holds power of attorney (poa).  
Mr S says he was unaware  that Al Rayan had made all four accounts  dormant until his 
payment of around  £5000  to one of them wasnt  credited, but instead returned to him some 
days later.  He says that checking the accounts online didnt reveal  that they were dormant 
despite the fact that they apparently were.
Mr S says he found Al Rayan particularly unhelpful  when  he tried to reinstate the accounts 
and he had to visit a branch three  times. The bank also unreasonably asked Mrs S to visit 
the branch for identification purposes,  which  was impossible given her medical condition. 
And Al Rayan only agreed to progress matters  with the joint accounts once Mr S had 
provided the poa. 
Mr S is also unhappy about  the length  of time it took Al Rayan to respond to his complaint, 
which he made in June 2018;  and about  its offer of £75 compensation, which he considers to 
be too low. He has therefore brought  his complaint to us.
Al Rayan  told our adjudicator that in June 2017 it sent Mr S a letter  about its intention  to 
block his accounts  as dormant if he didnt take action within 1 month. It said it sent a similar  
letter about  the joint accounts  to Mrs S, who lived at a different address from Mr S. Al Rayan 
couldnt provide  the original letters, but it sent copies and a system screenshot showing that 
both letters were sent on 20 June 2017.  And although Mr S had said that neither he nor Mrs 
S had received these letters, our adjudicator was satisfied that the bank had sent them.
With respect to the accounts not being recorded  as dormant  online, our adjudicator noted 
that Al Rayan had already  accepted that this was misleading and had said that its relevant 
departments had been informed. The adjudicator  then commented that it wasnt our role to 
require banks to change their systems; this was the responsibility of the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
But the adjudicator agreed with Mr S that Al Rayan had provided poor service in removing 
the block from Mrs S accounts.  He noted that the bank had said this was because  of 
difficulties establishing  her identity, but the adjudicator nevertheless considered  that the 
bank should have been able to resolve  the matter more efficiently than it did. However, 
having considered the full circumstances of Mr S complaint, our adjudicators view was that 
the £75 compensation offered by Al Rayan was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators analysis and he re-iterated points hed made  
previously. In particular  he complained that it was unlikely that Al Rayan had ever sent the 
dormancy letters given  that neither he nor Mrs S had received them.  He also believed  that Al 
Rayan should  have sent four letters rather than just two as there were four accounts. And he 
continued to consider £75 to be insufficient  compensation for the inconvenience caused  to 
him and to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN79975732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr S four accounts state that if they are not used for a period of 
time Al Rayan will flag them as dormant. This means that the account cannot be used until 
and unless the customer contacts the bank to request re-activation. But before Al Rayan 
blocks accounts as dormant it writes to the customer saying it will do so unless it hears from 
the customer within a month.
Al Rayan  has provided a screenshot  showing that it sent such a letter to Mr S and Mrs S in 
June 2017. Mr S doubts whether this is true as neither he nor Mrs S, who lived at a different 
address, received the letters. But having  sent the letters Al Rayan wasnt responsible for 
their safe delivery,  and so whilst I accept Mr S statement that he didnt receive them  Im 
afraid I cant reasonably  hold Al Rayan responsible for that. 
Mr S has complained that the bank should  have sent four letters,  one for each account, 
rather than only two. But Al Rayan has said that it is clear from the letter  that it could refer to 
more than one account, and so it sent a single letter to Mr S referring to both of his accounts 
and a single  letter to Mrs S. 
Having considered the letters text I am satisfied that it is clear that it might refer to multiple 
accounts. And although I agree with Mr S that for the avoidance  of doubt a letter for each 
account might be preferable, I cannot reasonably  find the approach  adopted by Al Rayan  to 
be wrong. 
Mr S complains that when  Al Rayan made his accounts dormant it didnt  reflect this changed 
status online. And so not only did Mr S not receive the banks letters, but he was falsely re-
assured about  the status of his accounts when  checking them online. For its part Al Rayan  
has accepted  that in not noting  that an account is dormant  online this could be misleading  for 
customers. It has therefore fed this back internally to relevant departments. And although I 
have no remit in recommending  changes to the systems banks choose to use I must agree 
with Mr S that it would  be helpful if online account information reflected the reality of the 
situation.
Mr S said it took Al Rayan  too long to reactivate the accounts, particularly those he held 
jointly with Mrs S, and this caused him significant  inconvenience. The problem  appears  to 
have related mainly  to difficulty in establishing  Mrs S identity because Mr S was acting on 
her behalf.  Mr S has said that Al Rayan  was asking for information she couldnt  provide, and 
that it also asked  her to come into a branch, which she was unable to do. 
Whilst I do sympathise with Mr S, and recognise the frustration this situation must have 
caused him, it is important  that banks take whatever  precautions  they feel necessary to 
protect the integrity  of customers accounts  and to guard against fraud. Here, the matter was 
ultimately resolved  by Mr S presenting the poa, which Al Rayan quite rightly accepted. But it 
has recognised  that it provided poor service  to Mr S in unblocking  the accounts and offered 
him £75 compensation. I consider this fair and reasonable given  what  happened here, and I 
leave it to Mr S to contact  the bank if he now wishes to accept its offer.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN79975733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997573