K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr K bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Mr K. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with his application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Mr K selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
him aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it.
 Mr K says that he didnt need  the PPI because he received generous  benefits  from his 
employer and that he had an income protection policy in place. 
But Egg didnt  recommend  the policy to Mr K so it didnt have to check  if he needed it 
or whether it was suitable for him. So Egg didnt have to ask about any other  means Mr 
K had to cover his repayments.
But even if Egg had recommended the policy to Mr K, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.
Even though  Mr K was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the policy  wouldve paid 
out in addition to those  benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place wouldve  meant Mr K could use his employer sick pay to cover other 
expenses.
Ive noted what  Mr K has said about the income  protection policy hes mentioned. But 
Mr K hasnt been able to show  me a copy of that policy,  or tell me what level of benefits 
it provided. So I cant safely say that the PPI wouldve paid out in the same 
circumstances as the income  protection policy, or provided the same benefits. As such,  
this point doesnt change my overall  conclusions about whether the policy  was mis-
sold. 
Ref: DRN72629272 Its possible the information Egg gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr K wouldve been  affected  by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy was also competitively priced  and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262927