K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  
taken out in 1994. Mrs and Mr O say Nationwide Building Society,  trading as 
Cheshire Building Society, mis-sold them this policy. 
To make it easier Ill refer to Nationwide  throughout the rest of my decision.
background
The MPPI covered Mr O only for unemployment, accident and sickness. It cost 
£15.33 per month and would have paid a monthly benefit of £219 if Mr O made  a 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide 
disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general  
approach to complaints  about the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into  
account in deciding this case.
Having done  this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
This policy was sold during a meeting about Mrs and Mr Os mortgage application. 
Our adjudicator thought that this type of MPPI policy wasnt right  for Mrs and Mr O  
because their other  means were very limited and the policy didnt  cover  Mr O  for the 
first 90 days of unemployment.  The  adjudicator thought  this hadnt been  explained 
clearly to them.
Mr O was only entitled to statutory sick pay through his work,  and they had no  
savings to fall back on. 
I agree with our adjudicator. I think  Mrs and Mr O couldve been given clearer 
information when  the policy was sold to them.  I think had this been  the case they 
wouldve decided not to take the policy.  I say this because, I think Mrs and Mr O 
wouldve found it very difficult  to make ends  meet for 90 days  if Mr O  was made 
unemployed. Mrs O was working two jobs, but taken together, she still earned  
considerably less, than Mr O did in his one job. They didnt  take out the cover in joint 
names, only Mr Os, so I think it likely that they thought they wouldnt be able to pay  
their mortgage without his income.  Mr O wouldve got statutory sick pay  only with  his 
job and they had no savings, so I think  theyd  have struggled  to cope for the 90  day 
period.
Nationwide says this was a non-advised sale and it was  Mrs and  Mr Os 
responsibility to decide whether they wanted MPPI. That may be the case, but 
Nationwide had a responsibility to make  sure the information it provided was  clear 
Ref: DRN74308822enough for them to make an informed decision.  I dont think Nationwide  did this. I 
think it unlikely  Mrs and Mr O would have been  invited to read through all the terms 
and conditions of the MPPI policy  whilst they were arranging  their mortgage. 
I dont think Mrs and Mr O would  have  bought MPPI if theyd understood the limits on 
the cover for unemployment. I think  had they realised that the cover didnt protect 
them for the first 90 days of Mr O being unemployed, they wouldve thought this 
would put them  in a very vulnerable position. Nationwide said, over a short period,  
they couldve prioritised their mortgage repayments out of Mrs Os income. However, 
Ive looked at what the mortgage  application says Mrs O was earning  at the time. 
This was less than £4,000 per annum, from both jobs. So I think it wouldve  been 
difficult for them to afford anything other than bare essentials, if Mr O wasnt working.  
Nationwide also pointed out that Mrs and Mr O said their friends and family couldve  
helped out with their repayments.  Nationwide  said we  should accept  what Mrs and 
Mr O said about this, and not go behind  it. But, help of this kind cant  generally be 
guaranteed when the time comes.  I have  seen nothing here to lead  me to  believe 
that in Mrs and Mr Os circumstances,  there was a higher likelihood of their friends 
and family being able to help them out. So, I havent placed  much reliance on this. 
And, given their very limited resources,  its possible that any financial  assistance 
given mightve  been used for different purposes.    
So, with clearer information, I think  it likely  that they wouldve  considered the 
additional monthly  cost of the policy  not worth it to them in their circumstances, given 
their limited  means.  I think Mrs and Mr O have lost out because of  this and so it 
follows that I uphold their complaint.
what Nationwide should do to put matters right 
Nationwide should put Mrs and Mr O in the position theyd  be in now if they hadnt  
taken out MPPI. It should:
Pay Mrs and Mr O the amount  they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each  payment  from when they paid it until they get the 
whole amount  back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs and Mr O made a successful claim on the MPPI  policy, Nationwide can  
take off what  they got for the claim from the amount  it owes them. 
If Nationwide has already repaid any commission amount to  Mrs and  Mr O  that 
relates to this MPPI sale, that sum can be deducted by Nationwide  from the 
redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mrs and Mr O a certificate  showing how much tax  its taken off if they ask 
for one.
Ref: DRN74308823my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay  compensation 
as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and 
Mr O to accept  or reject my decision before 8 March 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7430882