K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called  Elevate  
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr B says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr B took out 4 instalment loans from Sunny between  June 2018 and 
August 2018.  Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Bs borrowing with Sunny, based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
in respect of loan number  4 onwards. Sunny  made  a partial offer to settle the complaint but 
this wasnt agreed to by Mr B. Ive been  asked  to make an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Mr Bs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr B could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks  ought to have  taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN70697842whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr B could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr B including assessing his income,  expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that at the 
time all this information showed  that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. Ive thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending  history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans to Mr B. 
Ive taken account of what  Ive said above,  about the length of the lending relationship, and 
applied it to the circumstances of loans  1  3 in this case. And I dont think its clear  enough  
that what Sunny seen,  from its checks, would have  suggested loans 1  3 were  unaffordable 
for Mr B. I accept  that Mr B may have already been finding managing his money difficult  at 
this point. However, theres  no clear record that the type or depth  of checks carried out at 
that time would have  exposed these issues. So Im afraid I dont  agree  that Sunny knew  its 
lending was unsustainable for loans  1 - 3. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different and Sunny 
ought to have comprehensively  looked  at the pattern  of Mr Bs borrowing to ensure he was 
able to afford it. I think any reasonable assessment of this situation would have highlighted a 
risk that Mr B was having trouble managing money.
I say this because  by that point hed been  borrowing quite rapidly and he was applying for 
loan 4 when he hadnt even paid off the first 3. In fact, the lending  was so hurried  that he 
was only at the very early stages of paying any of them  back; loan 4 was his fourth such  
application in just 12 weeks or so. I recognise  the amounts lent were relatively moderate 
sums, but they were also increasing again by the time we get to loan 4. 
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money in this way are less likely to be able to sustainably  repay  a loan. With this 
information, I dont  think Sunny  ought to have  lent him the money  for the loan 4. I dont  think  
it was responsible to do so.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr B, Sunny should:
Ref: DRN70697843refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 1 - 3 and treat any 
payments Mr B made towards  these  loans as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Bs loans 1 - 3 accounts  as Ive directed results  in Mr B effectively 
having made payments above  the original capital borrowed, then Sunny should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement.  
if reworking Mr Bs loans 1 - 3 accounts  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, 
then Sunny can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. 
And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind  Sunny that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr B for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to loan 4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint and direct  Elevate  Credit  International Limited  to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  Monthly 
Repayment
1 05/06/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £81
2 02/07/2018 outstanding 6 £150.00 £49
3 27/07/2018 outstanding 6 £50.00 £17
4 28/08/2018 outstanding 6 £100.00 £33
Ref: DRN7069784