K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that the wardrobe doors  replaced by Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company 
Limited (LV) following her 2015 home  insurance  claim  for water damage turned out to be 
defective in 2018. She would now like her wardrobes  completely replaced.
background
Ms C made a claim  under  her home insurance policy in 2015 following an escape of water at 
her house  that caused damage. Her wardrobes  were damaged  and in 2016  were replaced 
by LV. Following a complaint  she made in July 2016, LV paid her £1,250 for loss of 
appearance/size which Ms C accepted. 
In October  2018, Ms C contacted LV again  to say shed recently noticed defects with the 
wardrobe doors. She sent it photos  of the defects. LV sent out someone  to inspect what was 
going on who reported that there was a manufacturing  fault with the doors but said they were 
capable of being replaced on a like-for-like basis, supplied by a different manufacturer and 
would come with a two year warranty. Ms C didnt think  the suppliers would be able to fit new 
doors onto the existing  carcass or that they would come with a guarantee. She felt the whole 
wardrobe should be replaced and obtained  a quote  for just over £6,000 to do so which she 
sent to LV. The company  Ms C got her quote  from guaranteed the wardrobes  for 12 years. 
LV said neither it, nor its suppliers, offered lifetime guarantees. It also said that as the 
damage was to the doors alone,  and as they were capable of being replaced, it couldnt  
agree to replace the entire wardrobe. It said, as an alternative, it would agree to cash  settle 
the claim,  if Ms C preferred to rather than accept the replacement  doors.  Ms C said she 
didnt want to accept  a cash settlement because it would be difficult  to match new doors with 
the existing carcass.  LV admitted that its customer service had, at times, been poor and that 
thered been delays  and paid Ms C compensation of £375. 
Unhappy with LVs offer,  Ms C complained to this service. She said that the inspector told 
her one thing when he came out (advising against  repair and telling her to get a quote) but 
reported another to LV (that a repair was possible). She said that whilst  LV had offered to 
replace the doors from a different supplier, shed been told that the fact it intended  to use the 
existing hinges  would  cause a problem.  She said it was unclear if new doors would match 
the carcass, if the quality would be like-for-like  and what the guarantee period would be. 
Ms C said she still didnt  want  a cash settlement.
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought LV had dealt with Ms Cs complaint fairly  by making the offers that it had. He thought  
the offers made by LV to address the manufacturing fault were in line with LVs obligations  
under the policy  terms. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs C I dont think her complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN74569612The doors to the wardrobes  LV replaced in 2016 have failed. There  is no dispute about that, 
nor that LV should deal with the problem; it accepts  that it should.  LV has sent out a 
contractor to inspect  the doors and it is his expert view that they can be replaced by another  
manufacturer on a like-for-like basis. They  will come with a two year guarantee. As an 
alternative it has offered  to make Ms C a cash payment. 
Ms C says it will be difficult:
to match  the doors  to the colour of the carcass;
for the new supplier  to fit new doors  to an existing  carcass;
to get the new supplier to provide a guarantee for doing so;
to fit new doors on to the existing hinges;
to know whether the new doors  will last longer than 2 years  or whether she will be
faced with the same problem in a further  two years time;
for her to accept  a cash settlement and find a supplier of her own.
Ms C said she would like to be provided with doors that will last as long as her previous (pre- 
water damaged) wardrobes lasted  for (25 years). She says a two year guarantee isnt 
justifiable and she doesnt want to accept it. And she says shed received no reassurance 
that the doors will match the carcass.  
I think that LVs offer to rectify the faulty doors  by either replacing them like-for-like (which 
I take to mean including colour matched to the carcass) or paying Ms C a cash  settlement is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  Its accepted that the doors it fitted in 2016 have 
failed and has offered  to replace them. It says it can do so on a like-for-like basis  and Ive not 
seen any evidence to persuade me that this wouldnt be achievable  as feared by Ms C. 
Ive not seen any evidence that the new doors wont match the colour of the carcass,  nor 
that they wont be able to be fitted to the existing hinges. I appreciate that Ms C is 
apprehensive about the doors durability  because the ones fitted  in 2016 failed so soon. But I 
cant require LV to take steps now in relation  to something that may never happen. And I 
note the replacement doors will come from a different manufacturer  so I think its unlikely 
theyd suffer from the same defect as the damaged doors. I can only look at what has 
happened and consider  whether LVs response to the issue is fair in the circumstances; and 
I have to say I think it is. 
The policy terms state that LV guarantees repair works for 12 months. Ms Cs doors failed 
two years after they were  fitted (after the manufacturing warranty expired  as well) but LV has 
said it will replace them regardless. Its acknowledged  theres  been a manufacturing fault 
and its said it will obtain replacement doors form a different manufacturer. It is confident 
they will be capable of being fitted and will be a colour match.  As thats the case, and without 
expert evidence to the contrary, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell LV to replace the entire  
wardrobe based on the quote obtained  by Ms C. It is only fair that LV is allowed to try and 
make an effective and lasting repair. 
Regardless of any guarantee, LV is responsible for the likeness and quality of items provided  
and those items should last a reasonable amount of time. However,  should  it end up that the 
doors dont  fit or the colour match   - or quality - is poor then Ms C will be able to make  a new 
complaint to LV about that. But that may never happen and I cant  reasonably make LV 
replace the entire wardrobe without being  sure that it would. 
Ref: DRN74569613LV has said the doors will come with a two year manufacturers warranty which is more than 
it needs to offer under the policy terms. So I think thats fair and reasonable. LV has asked 
its suppliers if they would provide a warranty longer than two years but none of them do. I 
dont think that because high street retailers may offer longer guarantees that this makes  
LVs two year guarantee unreasonable. 
LV has said it has three suppliers it can use and I agree that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Ms C to be allowed to choose which of those should supply  the replacement  doors.  
Although Ms C was unaware that there  were three potential suppliers prior to our 
involvement I dont believe this lack of knowledge has disadvantaged  her in any away. And it 
would be entirely  usual for an insurer to select which supplier to use without giving the 
policyholder a choice. So I cant criticise LV for not having offered LV a choice before.  
I can see that Ms C was unhappy  with the level of service she received from LV when she 
contacted it about the faulty  doors. I can see that she also says she was given different 
information by the inspector to that which he gave LV and that she experienced some 
delays. But LV has acknowledged its shortcomings and paid her compensation of £375 for 
any distress and inconvenience they caused. I think thats fair in all the circumstances and is 
in line with awards this service has made  in similar  cases. Indeed  if this case  had passed 
across my desk  without an award of compensation having already been  made  its unlikely Id 
have awarded  any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7456961