K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the compensation he has been offered by Bank  of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax (Halifax), for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) taken 
with a mortgage.
 
background 
Mr B had a joint mortgage with a third party (Ms X). Mr B found out that in 2017 Ms X had 
complained to Halifax about the mis-sale of the PPI policy she had taken with Mr B 
alongside their joint mortgage. Halifax had upheld  the complaint  and paid compensation to 
Ms X. Ms X was paid the total amount.  Mr B was unaware Ms X had done this. He felt as he 
was the joint policy holder,  the compensation should have been paid to him. 
Mr B complained to Halifax.  Halifax upheld  Mr Bs complaint and it offered to pay him half of 
the PPI premiums that had been  paid plus interest  for the time he had been out of pocket. It 
also offered him £100 for the distress and inconvenience he had suffered.
Mr B rejected the offer and ask us to step in.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that the offer being  made  
was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr B disagreed. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax has already  offered compensation to Mr B I wont be considering  the sale of the 
policy. I will only be looking  at whether  the compensation being offered is fair. 
Mr B is very engaged  with his complaint and I understand why he feels  frustrated. He says 
the mis-sale complaint made by Ms X was fraudulent and he is unhappy about that. 
But I need to make it clear  that Im not able to consider  whether  Ms X acted fraudulently in 
the way she made a claim  I can only consider complaints between  consumers and 
financial businesses, not between consumers. But I can look at whether the offer being 
made to Mr B by Halifax is what we would expect to see for a mis-sold PPI policy.
When I decide, or a business agrees, that a PPI policy has been mis-sold  Id expect it to, as 
far as possible, put the consumer in the position  they would be in had they not taken the 
policy. Id expect it to refund the premiums paid for the PPI, any associated interest or costs  
and add 8% simple per year interest as compensation for any time the consumer had been 
out of pocket for that money.  
In Mr Bs case  the policy was in joint names with Ms X. So it follows that both Mr B and Ms X 
were entitled  to receive back the cost of the PPI premiums, plus interest.  And Halifax has 
offered Mr B half of the total compensation. I think that offer is fair and reasonable under the 
particular circumstances  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71043472I dont think it would  be fair to tell Halifax to pay Mr B all of the compensation to him  that 
would mean  it paid all the compensation twice.  But if Mr B or Halifax  think  Ms X has been 
overpaid it would be up to either of them to try to recover any overpayment directly and that 
isnt something this service can help with. So although Mr B may think its unfair that Ms X 
has been paid more than him, I think Halifaxs offer to him is fair. 
I know Mr B is unhappy with what he says is fraudulent  activity  on his PPI policy. But as I 
explained above, that is a separate  issue and I cannot address that point. I can only look at 
how Halifax proposes to put the mis-sale  of the PPI right for Mr B.
I am also aware that Mr B isnt satisfied  with the offer of £100 Halifax  has offered for the 
trouble and upset  he has been caused.  And I do appreciate in bringing the complaint it has 
been a difficult  time for Mr B. But I am of the opinion that in its dealings with Mr B, and its 
offer of compensation to him, Halifax has acted in good faith. So I think  the offer of £100  is 
fair in the particular  circumstances of his complaint.  I wont be asking Halifax to do anything  
more. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr B but I hope  I have  been able to make clear  what  I can 
and cant consider in deciding  his case.  And Id like to reassure Mr B I have carefully  
considered the comments he has made. But because  of what  Ive said above,  these  
comments dont change  my mind. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about  Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading 
as Halifax. It is for Mr B to decide  whether to accept its offer of compensation and the 
additional £100 for the inconvenience  he has suffered.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104347