K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms S complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Mr G and Ms S took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both 
Mr G and Ms S for accident, sickness and unemployment. It could have paid out up to £210  
a month  for up to two years.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr G and Ms S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and Ms Ss case.  I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy  was sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
If there were shortcomings  in the way Halifax sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr
and Mrs C are worse  off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
Halifax recommended  this policy to Mr G and Ms S. So it needed make  sure it was suitable 
for them. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr G and Ms S and Halifax when they
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. And, given  the mortgage was repaid more than 10
years ago I wouldnt expect either  party to have many records  of that meeting. Thats
unfortunate, but hasnt prevented me from deciding this complaint based on the information
and evidence we do have.
Mr G and Ms S say they dont recall the PPI being discussed in any detail  and thats 
understandable given  it was so long ago. And they think they were led to believe they had to 
have the PPI on order t get the mortgage.  But from what we know  about how Halifax  sold 
policies like this at the time, its more likely than not that Halifax  made Mr G and Ms S aware 
that the PPI was optional and they chose to take it.
Ive also thought about whether the policy was suitable for Mr G and Ms S, because, as I 
said above, Halifax was recommending  it to them. I think it was for the following reasons:
- Both Mr G and Ms S were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI
terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN77106392- The policy  was split in order to cover  both Mr G and Ms S, who were both working, and that 
seems appropriate  to me.
- Mr G says he only got statutory sick pay if he was ill, whilst Ms S had some benefits.
But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational benefits  and would do so, 
it seems, for longer  than theyd last. Overall I think Mr G and Ms S would have had some 
use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr G and Ms S werent affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main  benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As they could  have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely
Mr G and Ms S needed better advice or information  about the policys exclusions and
limitations.
- I dont  know  exactly when Mr G and Ms S were told the cost of the PPI  it may well have
been in the original meeting. But  even if Mr G and Ms S didnt  know the exact  amount  of
the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might  have  known approximately
what it was. Ultimately, I think  Mr G and Ms S were aware they had to pay something for
the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was
insufficient to meet  their total monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr G and Ms S about  the PPI wasnt
as clear as it should have  been. But they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr G and Ms S werent affected by any of the
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr
and Mrs C would have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided 
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7710639