K821x#15complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited following
a claim under their central heating insurance policy. Miss M has been represented during the
complaint by Mr S.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2019, part of which is copied 
below:
On 2 March  2018 Miss M reported a claim to British  Gas as her boiler  was leaking.  It took 
all day to get through, as there  was heavy snowfall and I understand that several call centres
were closed. An engineer attended late that night but Miss M says he was trying to put a
calling card through the door without actually knocking/ringing the bell. Miss M opened the
door as he was doing so. He inspected the boiler but said parts were needed and arranged
to come back on 5 March 2018  to fit a new gas valve, saniblock and seals. While  there  he
also agreed to get a quote for a new boiler  and confirmed a discount  would be applied.
The engineer told Miss M that he would also need to carry out a full service (one had already
been booked as part of the annual cover for 21 March  2018  and Miss M still expected this to
take place) he also stated  that the mains  water pressure was very high for the boiler  and
needed rectifying.
The boiler then stopped  working again on 18 March  2018 and Miss M had to call British  Gas
out again. Another engineer attended  and repaired the boiler. The boiler  was then replaced
on 30 March 2018 but some  extra  work was required. Miss M says this was due to defects
not notified by the first engineer. The boiler also had to be positioned differently from the
original, which hadnt been installed with sufficient  clearance around  it.
Miss M is extremely  unhappy with the way the claim has been dealt with and in particular
with the actions of the first engineer.
British Gas British Gas does not accept that it has done anything  wrong. It says that the
issues with the boiler  were matters that would  now be required when a boiler is installed but
it is not required to notify a homeowner of such matters unless there  is a risk to them as a
result. Essentially  the boiler was not to current standards but was operating safely. It
offered Miss M £80 compensation as a goodwill gesture  for the mix-up with the annual
service appointment.
Miss M doesnt accept  this and brought the complaint to this service. I have summarised the
submissions made by Miss M and Mr S below:
The first engineer checked  the efficiency of the boiler and checked the radiators, he
  did not carry out a full proper annual service.
 The first engineer also failed to notify them that there were several issues with the
  boiler, which are all required as part of Gas safe regulations and / or boiler
  manufacturer requirements:  that there was no earth bonding;  a lead gas pipe at the
  mains was porous  (which could result in gas leaks);  and the clearance around  the
  boiler was less than 600mm.
 The engineers that installed  the new boiler  had to move its position, so that there             
was a more than 600mm clearance all around, and replaced the porous pipe and  
earth bonded it. All of this was authorised by British Gas as part of the cost they had  
Ref: DRN76646712to get authorisation for the extra work, as they had not been  informed about these  
issues prior to attending.
 The annual service  had been booked for 21 March 2018, but the engineer failed to
   turn  up as the first engineer had cancelled this appointment, without telling them.
  Mr S had arranged the day off work  to be at home  for this appointment
  unnecessarily.
 The first engineers failings caused  them to feel unsafe in case  of a gas leak which
  could lead to an explosion.
 It is also of great concern to them that this gas engineer could be putting other
  customers at risk. They have made  a separate complaint about this to Gas Safe.
 The first engineer put a calling card through the door stating the doorbell didnt         
work, which was not true. Miss M opened the door and demonstrated that it was  
working to the engineer as he was putting the card through. It had also been snowing  
but there was only one set of footprints, which demonstrates that he only walked to  
the door once,  with the calling card all ready and had not returned to his van for the  
card having  received no answer, as he claims. A neighbour can also provide  
evidence about  this.
 The first engineer told Miss M that the water pressure was too high and then lied
saying he didnt mention this. He left a job sheet with her, which says he advised    
that the mains  pressure  was very high and advised  that a pressure reducing  valve 
be fitted. The water supplier subsequently carried out an inspection and confirmed 
there wasnt an issue with the water  pressure.
 The first engineer didnt  repair the boiler  properly,  as it broke  down again two weeks
  later and another engineer was called out. He had to carry out a full reset of the
  boiler.
 British Gas failed to record Miss Ms complaint lodged by phone  on 21 March 2018,
  or acknowledge  her online complaint. It also failed to respond  to their complaint
  correspondence of 21 and 31 March 2018. They  had to chase this on 24 April 2018.
 Miss M no longer  feels safe in the property, as if she needs to ever make a call out
again and the first engineer is the one to respond  she will not have  him in the     
house. Unless British  Gas undertakes that he will not be sent to her property, she 
will suffer a reduced service.
 British Gas representatives were rude and abusive when they called to complain    
and it has either failed to record those telephone conversations or it has deliberately
withheld that evidence.
 British Gas is supporting  the lies that its engineers have told. Gas Safe cant   
release details of its investigation to third parties  or to them but British  Gas will be  
aware of the outcome.
 The second engineers  notes of the call out say it was for a "Code F13" fault, which  
is "short circuit: Domestic  hot water cylinder  temperature sensor". This will or can 
occur when a seal or a burner door seal was missed or incorrectly  fitted on a service 
or repair and this in turn will lead to an eventual short  circuit  on the hot water
temperature sensor. This only occurred after the boiler was apparently serviced  and
repaired and the checklist left with Miss M says new seals were fitted.
 British Gas has responded  to the complaint  by saying that it is not required to notify
customers of existing  issues  that are not to current standard. They dont accept this.
 All manufacturers require there to be a 600mm clearance at least and additional
space is beneficial. How can British Gas say these regulations dont  exist?
 The information provided by British  Gas regarding the relevant regulations  has 
been interpreted  to suit their needs. This is a grey area, which  can only be 
determined by Gas Safe.
 The Not to Current Standards cannot be relied upon because  its open to mis -
Ref: DRN76646713interpretation and therefore only supporting regulations can be relied  upon.
 British Gas are quoting Not to Current Standards in relation to the 600mm 
clearance and the lead gas pipe,  however it has failed  to provide the regulations  on 
the 600mm clearance from the manufacturer and has failed to provide confirmation  of 
when the manufacturer stopped considering  this to be a regulation and instead  
classified it as being not to current standards instead.
 The first engineer did leave a job sheet with them which said the water  pressure 
was too high and he left a safety warning  notice which said the boiler was inoperable 
but it didnt say that it was not earth bonded.
 Gas Safe Regulations provide that old lead pipe work must be replaced  if it is not
demonstrating adequate pressure; the gas engineer must conduct a working
pressure test on each  gas appliance within the property and record  the findings.
 Due to the problem with the lead gas pipe, the gas engineer should have carried 
out a pressure test on the boiler,  cooker and gas fire and these recorded  for 
inspection. British Gas cannot produce  these pressure tests.
 The offer of £80 from British Gas is rejected on the basis it is inadequate  and also it
is not a goodwill gesture  as claimed.
Miss M has asked for: a full refund of the cost of the service that was not done;
compensation for failing  to inform her that the service had been cancelled  and for the time
Mr S spent waiting for British Gas before being informed the appointment had been
cancelled (around  four hours); a full apology that also acknowledges that the first engineer
was untruthful;  written  assurance that Miss M will not be left without a gas engineer,  if she
has a claim in the future; written assurance  that a gas engineer will arrive  within  the
stipulated time frame for call outs due to her being vulnerable;  and compensation from
British Gas for causing a great  deal of alarm and distress for the time and money its cost her
to keep contacting British  Gas and contacting the water supplier.
British Gas has also made a number  of submissions in response  to the complaint, which  Ive
summarised below:
 It had advised Miss M about the earth  bonding.  This was highlighted and itemised 
in the report filed by the first engineer on 5 March 2018 following completion of the
repair and service of the boiler. A safety  advice notice was left at the property in
respect of the earth bonding,  which is in line with its process.
 When  a gas boiler is installed it should be installed to the manufacturers guidelines
and serviced to the manufacturers guidelines.
 The policy agreed to by Miss M provides that the boiler will be serviced  in
accordance with British  Gas own procedures, rather than the manufacturers
guidelines.
 It sent the renewal invite and policy documents, which set out the terms of the
agreement, by post on 2 March 2017  and by email on 1 March, 21 March and 2 April
2018.
 The annual service  was carried out in line with its terms  and conditions:
"Annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home  once a year to check that your appliance,
boiler or central heating and ventilation is working safely  and in line with the relevant
laws and regulations.  Well  also test the gases  your appliance or boiler produces.  If
these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart  to adjust or
clean it, well do so. During  the visit, our engineer  will fill in a checklist  that shows  you
exactly what weve looked at."
 It is no longer a requirement that gas engineers notify homeowners  where  the boiler
Ref: DRN76646714spacing does  not meet current standards, provided  it is not unsafe.  This has been  the
case for almost two years. It has provided  guidance  about this.
 The annual service  appointment  was cancelled automatically by its administration
system (not by the first engineer) it offered £80 compensation for this the service  had
been carried out when the repairs has been  completed.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She recommended that most aspects of the
complaint be upheld but she also said that we were not the right service to consider whether
British Gas has adhered  to relevant  gas safety  regulations. However she also thought that
British Gas should have notified Miss M about the issues with the boiler and that it had not
dealt with the complaint as it should  have done. The adjudicator recommended  that British
Gas pay Miss M a total of £280 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor
service. She later revised this to a total of £260,  then £220.
Miss M has accepted the adjudicators recommendation. Although the overall level of
compensation that she feels  is warranted is far more than that recommended,  she confirmed
she would  accept it.
British Gas does  not accept the adjudicators recommendation,  so the matter has been
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
reporting requirements of not to current  standards  and other issues
lead pipe
British Gas disputes that the lead pipe was porous as alleged.  Mr S has said it was because
he could manipulate it but British Gas disputes that this would be the appropriate test. Mr S
also says that the existence of such an old lead pipe should  have  led British Gas to carry out
pressure tests on all the gas appliances in the property. Theres no other evidence about
this as far as I am aware. Without some  other  expert evidence, I am unable  to conclude that
the pipe was porous and / or was potentially dangerous. There  was no leak as far as I
understand. If the installer  wanted  this changed (and I dont have any specific evidence
about that) it doesnt establish  that it was dangerous or that the engineer should have
reported it to Miss M.
clearance
Safety regulations frequently change over time.  However, it seems not to be in dispute that
any new boiler installation  should  be carried out such that there is at least  600mm  clearance
around the boiler casing. I am not aware of anything said by British Gas to dispute that such
regulations regarding clearances  around  boiler installations  exist. It seems apparent to me
that the dispute is rather that where  Gas Safe engineers are asked to work on a boiler that
has not been installed this way, would  they have an obligation to notify the customer?
Miss M is adamant that British Gass engineers should have brought  that specifically to her
attention and British Gas says that it is no longer a requirement to do so. Both parties have
provided evidence  to support their positions.  I do find the evidence  provided by British  Gas
Ref: DRN76646715persuasive. Miss M has provided evidence, which confirms that any new boilers  should  have
sufficient clearance but overall, I am not persuaded that Miss M has established that this
specific issue should have  been  bought to her attention  and wasnt.  For the avoidance  of
doubt, I am not making  a finding that British Gas did not have to bring this to her attention,
rather that there is insufficient evidence for me to be sure that British Gas did have to. I
consider that this is a matter that is better  dealt  with by Gas Safe, and I understand it is
already considering it.
In any event, even  if I accept, or indeed if Gas Safe concludes  that the engineer should have
notified Miss M of the clearance issue and the issue with the lead pipe, I have to consider
how this might have changed things for Miss M. It was agreed on the first visit that Miss M
would be provided  with a quote  for a new boiler  and this was installed within the same
month. If Miss M had known about  these  things, she would presumably have  continued with
the replacement  of the boiler in exactly the same way as she did. There is no evidence that
any difference was made to her position in that regard. I acknowledge that she says these
matters indicate  a problem with the quality of work done by this engineer and could
potentially lead to safety issues but that is not or me to determine. I can only look at her
individual position
.
Miss M also says that additional costs of replacing the pipe and repositioning the boiler were
covered in the original price for the new boiler  on the basis  the first engineer  had not notified
the sales team about them. I cant consider this particular issue  any further. The engineer
agreed to get a quote arranged. I do not consider there is any evidence that he had a duty to
Miss M to report this to the sales team who would be responsible for dealing with the quote
themselves - and over whom I have no power.  And theres no evidence  from the installers
about this.
water pressure
British Gas says the engineer says he did not comment on the towns water pressure but on
whether there was a water metre  for property. However, the job sheet left with Miss M on 1
March 2018, says the water pressure is high and he advised her to have a pressure
reducing valve fitted. I do therefore consider  that this is the reason that Miss M contacted  her
mains water  supplier, who confirmed  the mains  pressure was not too high.
earth bonding
British Gas says a safety notice about  the earth  bonding was left after the 5 March 2018
visit. Miss M denies this.
The 1 March 2018 job sheet says the boiler was turned off because it was not operating but
did not mention  any lack of earth  bonding. There is no job sheet  or safety  notice from 5
March 2018 in the papers  provided to me.
It is recorded on British  Gass system that the engineer did notice the lack of bonding  on 5
March 2018. So I am satisfied that it was noted  on that visit. British Gas says that any safety
notice/job sheets are handwritten and left at the property but they will reflect  what  is entered
into the handheld devices  its engineers use. The engineer recorded electronically that he
had warned them about the earth bonding issue. It has provided evidence  to support that.
British Gas would not be able to produce  the handwritten job sheet notifying Miss M of this
as only one copy of that is produced. Miss M vehemently denies receiving such  a document.
It is very difficult  for me to determine  whether  such  notification was provided, given such
conflicting evidence.  However, as stated  the earth bonding issue was noted electronically.
Ref: DRN76646716I do accept that this was a matter that should  have been brought  to Miss Ms attention (and I
dont think this is disputed  by British Gas) but I do not have enough evidence to be satisfied
that it didnt do so. In addition,  as with the other  issues, I have to consider what  effect - if
any- any such  failure to notify Miss M had on her. I am not able to punish or fine British Gas
for any such failure of Gas Safe regulations (even if it had been proven it had breached  any
such regulations). British  Gas would not have  been  responsible for earthing the boiler under
the terms of the contract and the boiler was to be replaced. There  is no evidence  of any
detriment to Miss M as a direct result of this. I know she will say that it is detrimental as she
cannot be certain the engineers were  competent. However, the earth bonding issue had
been recorded and so I cannot say there was a failure to notice it. Overall, I am not satisfied
that I can make any award against British Gas in relation to this issue.
Standard of repairs
Miss M says the first engineer cant have repaired the boiler properly, as it failed again
shortly afterwards. However, there is no convincing evidence that the second  breakdown
was due to anything done wrong by the first engineer. The job sheet  from the second
engineer doesnt make  any such finding.  I also note that they agreed  to have the boiler
replaced and so it is reasonable to assume  that it was coming  towards the end of its life at
that stage.
behaviour of first engineer
Miss M is extremely  unhappy with the first engineer and says he has lied about  a number of
things, including  that he got no answer  when he first got to their house and in what he told
them at that visit. Miss M and Mr S want British Gas to admit he lied and to apologise.
I do not consider  that I need  to make a finding  about whether he lied about having  tried the
door at the first attendance. Miss M clearly  feels very strongly about this issue and has said
witnesses can also attest to her testimony on this. However, I do not consider that I need to
make a finding in order to fairly determine  this complaint. We do not take evidence  on oath
and we also have  no power to punish  businesses or their employees  for any wrongdoing.
We also do not have  any power to instruct  how a business such as British Gas should
operate or discipline staff etc. Rather we consider what is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances and where things have gone  wrong, we look at trying  to put consumers back
in the position they would have been in had any such  wrongdoing not happened.
In this case, while I can see it would have been frustrating and annoying to find a contractor
trying to avoid attending (and while I make no formal finding, I have no reason  to doubt
Miss M on this) she did answer the door and he did attend. I therefore do not consider that
any further investigation about  this is required.
Miss M says she will suffer a reduced  service under the policy, if she has to call out again
and the first engineer is suggested as attending as she will not want  him in her home.  I have
no power over how British Gas operates its business.  If any call outs are made in the future,
then Miss M can ask for the name of the engineer that the job has been assigned  to but I do
not consider that British Gas can reasonably be required to make  any guarantee about the
first engineer  not being assigned any job for Miss M. Neither  can I ask British  Gas to make
any other undertaking about the time to respond to any claim. There  is a contract between
them already  setting out the terms of service  in the event of a claim.  Sometimes  things go
wrong and then a consumer  is entitled to complain  about that, as is the case  here. I do not
consider that any additional contract is required or would be reasonable.
Ref: DRN76646717Annual service
The Gas Safe website says theres  three  possible level of checks  that can be carried out on
gas appliances: a safety check; a gas installation safety check; and an annual  service. The
following is  an extract from the gas safe website:
"Whats the difference  between a safety check and a service?
... What is an Appliance Safety Check?
An appliance  safety check at a minimum includes all of the checks and tests to ensure the
appliance is safe to operate...
What is an Appliance Service?
An appliance  service  will include all the above  checks and tests and any other specific
checks, for inspection and/or cleaning of the appliance as specified and detailed  in the
appliance manufacturers instructions...
Note: some  appliance  serving regimes provide an interim performance check (annual) to be
used in order to determine the degree  of dismantling the appliance and the level of servicing
required."
British Gass policy schedule, sent to Miss M each year said:  "Once a year well come  round
to service your gas appliance  to make sure its running safely  and efficiently".
And the policy document says:
"Gas appliance...whats  covered?... an annual service".
The reader is then referred to the definition of annual service  several  pages  further  into the
policy booklet, and which says:
"Annual service
One of our engineers will visit your home  one a year to check that your appliance, boiler or
central heating and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and
regulations. Well also test the gases your appliance and boiler produces. If these tests  show
that its necessary  to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so."
It seems  clear  to me that British Gass  definition of an annual service  is not the same  as Gas
Safes definition or most peoples general understanding of what an annual service  would
entail.
Gas Safe makes clear  that an annual service  should be carried  out in accordance with
the manufacturers instructions. I cant see that British Gas has made it sufficiently clear to
its policyholders  that this is not going  to be done with its version of an annual service.
While the Gas Safe explanation has the rider that some  servicing  regimes  might not always
include dismantling an appliance this doesnt state that it wont be in line with manufacturers
instructions. British Gas hasnt provided any evidence to show that its checks would meet
the Gas Safe definition  of an annual service or most peoples  general understanding  of what
that means.
Essentially, therefore  it seems to me that British Gass annual service is a gas safety check
Ref: DRN76646718and so its misleading to call it an annual service, when that has a different meaning to most
people. In any case, I dont think the policy is clear enough.
However, having said all that, it is clear  that Miss M wanted home emergency cover  and so it
seems likely that she would still have taken this cover out, even if she had known this.
Theres no evidence to suggest otherwise. Miss M has received the benefit of cover under
the policy and I dont know of any others that include a full annual service. I do not therefore
consider that this misleading definition of an annual service has caused any difference  in
Miss Ms position.
Given this, and that there is no evidence that there is any damage to the boiler or any other
cost to Miss M as a result  of only doing  safety  checks (whether by luck or not), I do not
consider it would be reasonable to refund all the premiums paid.
I have also considered the checklist  completed  by the engineer  and I am satisfied that he did
carry out an annual  service in accordance with the policy definition of such  and so another
service under the policy would not have  been  due until around a year later.  I do not therefore
consider that any refund  is required in respect  of the annual service.
British Gas says that the service visit booked by Miss M prior to the claim was cancelled
automatically on its system, as the first engineer had entered that a service had been done.  I
have no reason to doubt this explanation, which seems logical. However, I can understand it
would have been frustrating for Miss M and Mr S to have not been  aware  that the service
visit had been  cancelled and theres no convincing evidence  that they were told.
Complaint handling
Miss M tried to lodge a complaint with British Gas about the annual  service. I agree with the
adjudicator that it should have recorded her complaint as having been made when she
called on 21 March 2018 but it didnt  and I understand this caused  around a months delay in
addressing the complaint. I have no power  to punish or fine an insurer  for a failure in its
handling of complaints. I can only make  an award, if I think  compensation is appropriate and
that is in line with our approach in other similar cases, to reflect  the inconvenience  caused to
a consumer. Sometimes things do go wrong  and compensation  is not always  warranted.
Sometimes an apology  might be sufficient for instance. In this case,  I do consider that some
compensation is appropriate. However,  I am satisfied  that British  Gass offer of £80 (for the
delay in responding to the initial complaint and for the inconvenience caused as a result of
not telling  Miss M it had cancelled the annual  service appointment) is reasonable. I consider
that a further £30 is appropriate to take account of any inconvenience in having  the mains
water pressure tested unnecessarily.
Ref: DRN76646719my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited in part and require it
to pay a total of £110 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
handling of Miss Ms insurance policy. (This is to include the £80 already offered, so if it has
already paid that, it only need pay the additional  £30 now.)
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Miss M has responded. She has confirmed  that she accepts my provisional decision 
although she disagrees with some  of my findings.  Miss M and her representative  have made 
the following  points:  they gave the details of the fault code to us to show  that British Gas was 
being untruthful over the code; manufacturers do not allow their appliances to be installed 
with a distance less than 600mm; and there  was no earth bonding notice left at the property; 
by law British Gas has to keep an electronic copy of any such notice  and should  have  been  
able to provide  a copy if it had complied with the law on this. 
British Gas has also responded.  It does not accept  my provisional decision,  as it still 
considers that its previous offer of £80 is sufficient to compensate Miss M for the 
inconvenience it caused her. It also says that while  Miss M has provided  a small snippet of 
our engineers worksheet during our visit on 1 March  2018, where it states,  mains  pressure 
was high and recommendation provided  to fit a pressure reducing valve to the property, this 
information was not recorded  on the work history documented on its systems. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has reiterated some  of the points  already  considered  in my provisional decision. I 
accepted in my provisional decision that manufacturers might require new boilers to be 
installed with a 600mm clearance but the issue in this case  was whether British  Gas had an 
obligation to notify a policyholder if their boiler had not been installed in this way. I didnt 
think there was enough  evidence  to say that British Gas needed to do so. 
In any event, I also concluded that even  if it did need to do tell Miss M about  this and the 
lack of earth bonding,  it would not have  made  any difference  to Miss Ms position.  British 
Gas would not have been responsible for rectifying  either issue  under the terms of the policy  
and Miss M had already decided to replace her boiler. I remain  of the opinion that her 
decision would have  remained the same and therefore there was no detriment to Miss M. 
British Gas doesnt agree that any additional compensation is warranted and says it had no 
record of the comments  made by the first engineer  about the mains  water pressure. Any 
failure to record those comments on the electronic  system is down to the engineer acting on 
behalf of British Gas.  There is clear  and convincing evidence that he made the comments.  I 
remain of the opinion that it is appropriate  for an additional £30 compensation be paid for the 
inconvenience this caused Miss M. 
Ref: DRN766467110Miss M says she is not sure whether she ahs already received the £80 British  Gas already 
offered. If British Gas has already paid this, Id expect it to provide evidence  of that payment 
to Miss M. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited in part and require it
to pay a total of £110 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its
handling of Miss Ms insurance policy. (This is to include the £80 already offered, so if it has
already paid that, it only need pay the additional  £30 now.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664671