K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd (FCA) isnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it.
background
Mr S says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  in April 2018 for a three  year old car with 
15,523 miles on the clock.
He says he had to return the car for a manufacturers recall in July 2018. He said there was 
a further manufacturers  recall in August 2018  but other problems as well. In September 
2018 he says he had problems with the rear axle. And says he has continued  to have 
problems since.
FCA said a used car couldnt expect to be fault free. And defects could occur at any time 
even if the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He felt the fact the vehicle  had been  back  for repairs 
three times in five months showed  it wasnt of durable quality. And therefore  not fit for 
purpose. He didnt feel further repairs were reasonable given there  had been  a number of 
repairs already. He recommended that FCA:-
-Allow Mr S to reject the car and unwound  Mr Ss agreement  with nothing further to 
pay
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
-Refund Mr Ss deposit with 8% simple interest from the date paid to the date 
refunded
-Pay Mr S £110 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
He didnt recommend  any refund of payments made as Mr S had had some use of the car.
Mr S accepted this view.  He wished it to be noted  that he continued to have new problems 
with the car for example with the bonnet,  boot,  wing mirror, cigarette port, hands-free, centre  
console, alarm and a squeaking noise when going  around corners.
FCA didnt accept our adjudicators view. It asked our adjudicator to clarify if he felt there 
was a right to reject as more than one repair had been completed even though the repairs 
were to different  components.  It said its understanding  of the Consumer Rights  Act (CRA 
2015 was that the dealer  had the right to repair any fault after the first 30 days. The right to 
reject only existed if the fault wasnt repaired  and was recurring. And that wasnt the case  
here.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He said if there were 
faults after 30 days there would be one opportunity to repair these. He said the car had been  
to the garage  three times so the garage  had a chance to fix any repairs during  the first visit 
He said he wouldnt expect the garage  to just fix the problem but to check for any others. He 
said the CRA didnt  state it had to be the same fault which recurred.
Ref: DRN78713202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr S has had problems with this car. That has been 
well documented and seems to be a combination of manufacturing recalls  and faults.  The 
car has been repaired three times  but Mr S continues to have problems.
FCA has said that the under the CRA the right to reject only exists if the same fault recurs.
I should say that although  we take into account consumer legislation we are not bound by it. 
We look at all the circumstances  of a complaint and what is reasonable with regard to that 
complaint.
I agree  with FCA that a used car might expect to have some repairs.  But I am mindful  that 
Mr Ss car was only three  years old with low mileage when he got it. So whilst I think Mr S 
couldve expected  some degree of maintenance and/or it does seem to me that there have 
been a large number  of issues addressed on three  separate occasions  within  five months  of 
Mr S having  the car.
In July 2018 the job card shows an issue with the air conditioning and a manufacturing  recall  
on the auxiliary belt tensioner.
In August  2018  the job card shows a problem with the air conditioning which leaves me to 
believe this wasnt addressed in the July repairs. The job card also notes problems with 
noise, the electronics and the clutch. FCA said the master cylinder  for the clutch was 
replaced and this was a manufacturers recall.
In September  2018 the job card notes an issue with noise FCA described this as another 
manufacturing recall.  But there were  also problems noted with the boot not opening, the tyre 
pressure light wrongly coming on, intermittent issue with Bluetooth and the upholstery falling 
when  the car brakes.
Since our adjudicator  gave his view Mr S has come  back with a list of further issues  the 
bonnet not opening,  tyres  needing replacing  , the alarm going  off intermittently, the car 
making a squeaking noise  when  going around corners, the boot not opening, the cigarette 
port not working and a problem with the wing mirror. 
Some of these might be described as minor  and / or maintenance issues that can be 
expected as having a car particularly a used car. But without any form of inspection  its hard 
to know if this is the case or if there  are some underlying issues as well. However  I think  Mr 
S had sufficient problems  before these latest  issues arose for me to take a view on his 
complaint without needing to look any further into these latest problems.
When problems occur with the first six months  of a purchase we would normally expect the 
finance company  to show problems identified werent present or developing  at the point  of 
sale. FCA hasnt arranged  for an independent inspection  of the car. So I can only go on the 
information I have.
. 
It seems  to me that although  Mr S should  expect some issues  with a used car that he has 
had a significant number of different issues within the first few months of having the car. 
Ref: DRN78713203Even accepting some  of these issues were down to manufacturing recalls others werent.  I 
am inclined to agree  with our adjudicators view that the car wasnt  of durable quality. 
I accept Mr S has had use of the car  I think our adjudicator acknowledged that by saying 
he wouldnt  recommend  refund  of any payments Mr S made for exactly  that reason. And I 
agree with that. But I dont think having  used of the car means  the car is fit for purpose   too 
many problems have  occurred over too short a space of time for me to conclude  that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement  FCA Automotive  Services UK Ltd should:-
-Unwind Mr Ss agreement
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
-Refund Mr Ss deposit with 8% simple interest from the date paid to the date 
refunded
-Pay Mr S £110 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN7871320