K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt acted fairly or reasonably by letting 
him have  home emergency boiler cover. He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr R had limited  home emergency cover  with British Gas and in 2013 took out additional 
boiler cover. He paid premiums for over two years, which he said totalled £893.82 (covering 
all the home  emergency  items, not just the boiler). Mr R said though  that British Gas had 
noted in the initial service  that it couldnt fully provide service cover as not all the functional  
parts of the boiler were  available. He thought British Gas shouldnt have allowed the boiler 
cover to continue in the circumstances.
Mr R complained that hed been paying  for cover that couldnt be provided.  British Gas said 
due to the make of boiler, it wasnt able to confirm that it could get parts  as there was no 
database covering  it. This was why the engineer couldnt confirm  at the first service that all 
functional parts were  available, but this wasnt the same as saying the parts werent 
available. It also pointed  out that it continued  to cover the boiler and carried  out services. As 
a goodwill gesture, British Gas paid £33.21  (two months worth of premiums  paid after the 
last renewal) and paid another £30 which included 8% interest  on the refunded  premiums.
Mr R complained to us. British Gas explained  that Mr R had also received refunds for later 
policies due to a separate complaint. The adjudicators view was that British  Gas notes at 
the time didnt say that parts werent available for the boiler,  but it would be necessary to 
contact the manufacturer. He accepted that the service engineer  who attended in 2013 
simply didnt know if parts were available,  so ticked no on the document.  The adjudicator 
noted Mr R chose to continue with the policy, and thought that if the boiler had broken, it was 
likely that British Gas wouldve tried to repair it; this meant Mr R had benefitted from the 
policy. The complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr R disagreed. He said his complaints shouldnt be considered  together and that he felt he 
hadnt benefitted from the policy as his boiler was obsolete. The adjudicator said that more  
than one service had been  carried out under the policy and the tick box on the initial service 
was vague on the topic of available parts. Mr R still disagreed and said that the boiler didnt  
function or conform to safety standards; the adjudicator said the complaint was about the 
availability of parts, so this point wasnt relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can only consider the complaint as 
brought by Mr R. He didnt complain originally about  the function  or safety of the boiler;  he 
complained that due to the alleged lack of functional parts,  British  Gas shouldnt  have  
continued the boiler cover. This is the complaint  the business and this service investigated. I 
also dont think its unfair or unreasonable for this service to note the related complaints and 
redress paid in its totality.
Ref: DRN79650662The core of this complaint  is whether  British  Gas continued to charge for insurance which 
covered repairs of a boiler which it knew it couldnt  provide.  I dont think  that it did. Mr Rs 
boiler was by a specialist  manufacturer not within British Gas database. So its engineer  
couldnt tick the box saying that all functional  parts  were  available, and ticked the no box. 
Mr R was aware of this at the time but chose to continue with both the cover and the 
servicing of the boiler. I think this shows that its more likely than not that the reason the no 
box was ticked was due to the database  issue, and British Gas wouldve tried to repair the 
boiler if appropriate. The system notes reflect this view and they were made at the time, so I 
can place weight on them.
I havent found that British Gas has acted unfairly or unreasonably  so I cant award 
compensation and the complaint isnt upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 
10 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7965066