K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited handled his car 
insurance policies.
background
Mr As car insurance was with Admiral. He reported an incident  to them that happened  in 
September 2011. Admiral have accepted that they wrongly recorded that incident as a fault 
claim against Mr As policy, whereas it should have been recorded as non-fault.  As a result 
of the incident being  recorded as a fault claim, Admiral reduced Mr As no claims bonus  
(NCB) years.  Admiral  further accept that, as a result  of their error, Mr A was wrongly 
overcharged £864.20 for his premiums during six policy years between  2011 and 2016.
In the summer  of 2016, Mr A cancelled his policy. At that time both he and Admiral  were 
unaware of the error. On cancellation, Admiral said that Mr A had an outstanding  balance of 
£80.86 to pay for his last policy. Admiral chased  Mr A to recover that amount but without 
success.
Around November  2016, following a system review, Admiral realised the error  made in 2011. 
They corrected Mr As NCB years and calculated the premium overpayments he made as 
being £864.20. From that amount, Admiral deducted the £80.86 Mr A owed them  and 
refunded him £783.34. They also wrote to him explaining what  had happened and they 
corrected the insurance databases to show the 2011  incident as non-fault.
Mr A complained. In response, Admiral paid him £75 compensation and £164.66 in interest  
on the overpayments. Mr A didnt think that went far enough so he brought  his complaint to 
our service.  One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and she felt that Admiral had 
dealt with Mr A fairly. As Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 25 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr As cancellation of the policy  in 2016
From the information Ive seen, Mr A cancelled the policy before the policy year came  to an 
end. The £80.86 Admiral said he owed was in part a charge for the time he was insured and 
also a cancellation  fee. As that amount was due, I dont  think  Admiral did anything wrong by 
chasing Mr A for payment. And I think it was reasonable for Admiral to deduct that amount 
from the money Admiral  owed Mr A for the premium  overpayments. Im therefore not 
intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
premium overpayments
Mr A said that he struggled to pay his premiums during  the years  they were  wrongly  
increased by Admirals error. Admiral made the point that, despite saying he struggled to pay 
the premiums, Mr A chose  to go ahead with each policy renewal. While that may be the 
case, I dont think  Mr A should be criticised for renewing his policies with Admiral. It may 
Ref: DRN71188452have been the case that he felt that even though  he was struggling to pay, those policies 
were the most suitable for him at the time. It wasnt his fault that he was overcharged nor 
was it his fault that he had to struggle paying  the unfairly increased premiums. Had he taken 
out insurance with another insurer, given  Admiral had also wrongly recorded the 2011 
incident as a fault claim on the insurance databases, I think its likely  any new insurer  would 
have also overcharged  him because having a fault claim causes higher premiums.
When Admiral  realised  their error in 2016 they refunded the overpayments  to Mr A, which  
was reasonable.  But they didnt pay him interest on the overpayments  nor did they offer him 
any compensation until May 2018,  which I think was unreasonable. Mr A was deprived of his 
money for several years  which Admiral benefitted  from. So they should have paid him 
interest at the same  time they refunded the overpayments. It was only after Mr A complained 
that Admiral decided to pay him interest  and compensation, which I dont think  was 
reasonable.
Admiral said they paid Mr A 8% interest  on the money they held in error. Mr A has shown 
me evidence  that he was paying his premiums  in instalments which  attracted 9.90% interest. 
When our adjudicator asked Admiral  for clarification  on this point,  Admiral  said:  we issued  a 
full refund of £783.34. This included  any interest  we charged. But I dont  think this is clear  
enough.
I intend to require Admiral  to do the following:
(1) establish the total premium overpayments Mr A made between 2011  and 2016; 
(2) add to the total in (1) above  the total interest  he was charged  on those overpayments as 
a result of him paying in instalments; and
(3) add simple interest at 8% a year on the combined total of (1) and (2) above, from the 
dates he made each payment until the date he was (is) refunded.
A letter should be provided to Mr A clearly outlining the above  calculations.
I think that the £75 compensation paid to Mr A is wholly  inadequate  for the seriousness of 
the error  made;  the consequences Mr A suffered; and the distress and inconvenience  that 
he experienced over a prolonged period  of time.  He was overcharged  and struggled to make 
payments over a period  of around  six years before Admirals error was discovered. And 
although Admiral  refunded  what they say is the correct amount  to him at the end of 2016,  
they failed to pay him the 8% interest  he was entitled to until some  18 months later.
Likewise, it took 18 months to pay him compensation. To reflect the seriousness  of this 
matter and to address  the distress and inconvenience to Mr A, I intend to require Admiral to 
pay Mr A a total of £500 compensation. This amount  includes the £75 Admiral have already 
paid, so a further  payment of £425 should  be made.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr A agreed with my provisional 
decision. But Admiral  disagreed and made  the following comments:
Theres no evidence that Mr A struggled to pay his premiums  during the period of the 
error in premiums.
They agree  that they should  have paid interest when they first became aware of the 
error and they should have offered Mr A suitable compensation. Admiral have since 
reviewed their procedures for situations like this and deal with things differently.
Ref: DRN71188453The refund  issued to Mr A was correct and did include the interest  on his direct  debit  
instalments and 8% simple interest  on the overall  amount.
The overall amount  of compensation  should be £175 and not £500  as suggested in 
my provisional decision. Because  there is no evidence that he struggled to pay his 
premiums or that he suffered distress  and inconvenience.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Admirals additional comments, as follows:
Admiral have said that theres no evidence that Mr A struggled to pay his premiums 
during the years of their errors in calculating his premiums.  But Mr A told our service 
that he struggled with the payments. So, contrary to what  Admiral think, there  is 
evidence that Mr A struggled. Admiral  have said that Mr A didnt default on his 
instalments nor did he leave Admiral  and take out insurance elsewhere.  But just 
because he didnt  default on his payments doesnt mean  he didnt  struggle. Many  
people struggle with payments but still manage to pay them  on time. And Admiral 
have said that they were aware that in 2015  Mr A had become unemployed, which 
would indicate  his financial situation deteriorated. Again,  the fact that Mr A continued 
to renew his policy with Admiral and didnt go elsewhere doesnt  mean he didnt 
struggle. Its widely known that consumers dont tend to change  things like insurance 
or utilities providers even when theyre not happy. 
I have seen the calculations provided by Admiral and Im satisfied  that their refund 
included the interest Mr A paid on his instalments. I understand that in May 2018, 
Admiral paid Mr A the correct refund including the direct  debit interest  and 8% 
interest on the overall amount.
Admiral have said that the correct amount of compensation should be £175. That 
means they accept  that their offer of £75 was inadequate. But I feel that given the 
prolonged period of the errors,  namely that it went on for around five years,  and the 
fact that Mr A was deprived of the use of his money  during that time,  £500 is 
appropriate to reflect the distress and inconvenience he experienced. This includes 
Admirals conduct  of failing to pay Mr A interest and compensation when the error 
was discovered at the end of 2016. Interest and compensation wasnt  paid until May 
2018, after Mr A complained.
Ref: DRN71188454my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr A £425 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. This is in addition  to the £75 they have already paid him. This should be paid 
within 28 days of us telling them that Mr A has accepted  my final decision. If they pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision  to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118845