K820x#14Complaint
Mr M disputes a number of transactions on his Nationwide Building Society account, which 
he says he neither made nor authorised.    
Background
At the end of February  2018 there  were  a number of card transactions  made  on Mr Ms 
Nationwide account.  They included a transfer made at a cash machine, a £200 cash 
machine withdrawal and eight payments  to a betting store.  On the same  day there was also 
an undisputed  cash machine withdrawal  and some declined transactions.  
Mr M says he wasnt responsible for the transfer, the cash  machine withdrawal or the 
payments to the betting store. He said he thought his card must have been copied (or 
cloned). Nationwide didnt accept that, however. It said that its records showed  the genuine 
card had been used for all the transactions (including those that had been declined) and the 
correct PIN used. In the absence of any explanation of how someone could have acquired 
Mr Ms card and PIN, it thought it most likely  that he had made the payments and 
withdrawals. 
Mr M referred the matter  to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She was 
broadly in agreement with Nationwide, however.  She accepted that the genuine  card and 
correct PIN had been used and that it was more likely than not that Mr M was responsible for 
the disputed transactions. Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings, however, and asked 
that they be reviewed  by an ombudsman  as the final stage in our process.       
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr M initially suggested that his card must  have been  cloned. However,  Nationwides 
records indicate that each time the card was used, the chip embedded in it was read. Whilst 
its relatively simple to copy information from a magnetic stripe on a card and to reproduce  it 
on a stripe on a different  card,  replicating the chip in a card is a very different matter. Since 
the chip was read on every occasion  the card was used in this case,  I can safely rule out the 
possibility that a cloned card was used. 
Im satisfied too that the correct PIN was used  with the card on each occasion a disputed  
transaction was made. Mr M has told us that only he knew the PIN and that he had his card 
at all times. From what Mr M has told us about his movements on the day in question, I think  
it unlikely that anyone else was able to take his card, use it and then return it to him without 
him noticing. Further, its not clear how anyone else could have obtained his PIN. Its unlikely 
anyone could have  guessed it correctly and its not kept in unencrypted form on the card 
itself. 
I would add that the first transaction that Mr M is disputing was a transfer from his 
Nationwide account  to an account he holds  at a different bank. Its difficult to understand why 
a fraudster in possession of Mr Ms card and PIN would transfer money across Mr Ms 
accounts in that way. Theyd run the risk of detection and gain nothing. The same  could be 
said of gambling  transactions, since any winnings would  be returned to the card account. I 
do accept of course that people dont necessarily gamble  with a view to profiting, but I also 
Ref: DRN73891132note that the card was used shortly before the gambling transactions  to make a cash 
withdrawal  indicating  that, if a fraudster was involved, their motive was financial gain. 
I note as well that Mr M hasnt been  consistent about which transactions  hes disputing. 
However, since Im satisfied that he was responsible for all the transactions at the relevant 
time  disputed and undisputed, accepted and declined  I dont need to comment  any 
further on that.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  doesnt need to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 3 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7389113