K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that One Call Insurance Services Limited automatically renewed  his 
commercial van insurance policy against his wishes. 
background
Mr H bought a van insurance policy through a broker, One Call on 13 January 2017. Under 
its terms of business he agreed for One Call to arrange to automatically  renew  his cover the 
following year. 
On 16 December 2017 One Call wrote to Mr H and gave him details of the premium  it would  
collect in order to renew his policy on 13 January 2018. 
It didnt hear from Mr H, so it automatically renewed his van insurance policy on 13 January 
2018. 
Mr H said he emailed One Call and told it he didnt  want  to auto renew his policy. He asked 
his bank to recall the yearly premium One Call collected. 
One Call cancelled Mr Hs policy in March  2018  due to him not paying his premium.  It said 
he owed a balance  of £138.68.  In April 2018, it agreed to reduce this to £49.13 which was 
the pro rata sum for the days Mr H was insured.  So it waived its set up and cancellation  fees. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt think he should pay One Call anything as 
he didnt want his policy to renew. 
Our adjudicator thought One Call had acted fairly  and in line with the terms of the policy.  
Mr H didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr H bought his van insurance policy with One Call in January 2017, it sent Mr H its 
policy booklet. There is a section in the booklet which  explains  what  will happen at renewal. 
One Call provided  a contact number and postal address for Mr H to contact before the 
renewal date if he didnt  want  to renew  his policy. 
Mr H has provided a copy of an email he sent to One Call on 18 January 2018. This was five 
days after One Call had renewed his policy. Mr H said it was the premium  payment taken 
from his bank account that brought the renewal to his attention. He said he didnt receive 
One Calls  renewal letter in December 2017 which it sent by post. 
One Call has provided a screenshot of the contact it made with Mr H before renewal along 
with a copy of its renewal letter dated  16 December  2017. Im satisfied that One Call wrote  to 
Mr H on 16 December 2017. I cant hold One Call responsible for any postal issues. And it 
also sent a text message and email to Mr H before it arranged  for his policy to be renewed.
Ref: DRN70130682The email  address Mr H wrote to - asking One Call not to renew his policy - was an address 
One Call used to send Mr H his policy documents. One Call has shown that Mr H wouldve 
received the following reply:
"This is an automated response;  Please  do not contact us via this email address as 
your enquiry  will not be dealt with"
The email  also said:
To discuss your query regarding the policy please  call our Customer  Services Team 
on 013020554015 alternatively  go to our website www, onecalldirect.  co. uk and visit 
the existing customer  section
So I think One Call clearly  set out what Mr H needed  to do to prevent his policy from being 
automatically renewed. And from what Ive seen, I dont think  Mr H notified One Call before 
the renewal date of his request  or to an email address that was monitored.  
Due to the potentially serious consequences of not insuring a vehicle, most businesses  
make provision to automatically renew  a motor  insurance policy  as One Call did here. Its a 
legal requirement  for a registered keeper of a vehicle to ensure its insured. 
Mr H said the premium  difference  was much higher than the price he paid the year before. 
But he also told us that he wasnt using his van at the time and so didnt  intend  to renew his 
insurance cover anyway. However, Mr H hadnt declared his van as being off the road with 
the DVLA under a Statutory Off Road Notice (SORN). And so he still had a legal requirement  
to insure his van. And as he didnt  intend to pay for insurance for the van, I dont think the 
issue of how much the premium was at renewal makes a difference. Mr H can contact the 
insurer if hes unhappy with the price of the premium.
One Call wrote to Mr H on 23 January  2018  to tell him the payment had been recalled and if 
he didnt pay it this would lead to the cancellation of his policy. It didnt hear from Mr H, so 
when the recall completed, One Call wrote  to him again on 16 March  2018 to give him seven 
days notice of cancellation. It cancelled his policy on 23 March 2018  and confirmed this in 
writing to Mr H on the same day. I think One Call followed its cancellation process correctly. 
One Call said Mr H called it on 3 April 2018. He disputed the balance it said he owed of 
£138.68.
One Call agreed  to waive its set up and cancellation  fees.  As One Call set out its charges  on 
cancellation in the policy booklet  it sent to Mr H before  renewal,  I think it was entitled  to 
charge Mr H the £138.68 it asked him to pay. 
Because One Call has reduced the balance  to the days Mr H was insured, I think  it has 
acted reasonably. I understand Mr H believes he wouldnt  have been insured as he hadnt 
made the payment. But as One Call had arranged for the policy  to renew on 13 January 
2018  then until cancellation the insurer provided  cover for Mr Hs van. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision. But I think One Call acted  
reasonably and in line with the policy when it renewed Mr Hs van insurance  policy. And this 
means I think One Call is entitled  to ask Mr H to pay the reduced  balance of £49.13. 
Ref: DRN70130683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7013068