K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Mrs O have complained about the issues that arose when  The Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential) arranged their joint life annuity. Firstly theyve 
complained about the delays in setting up the annuity and then that they werent  made 
aware that Prudential  would  be receiving  commission  from their plan  for arranging an 
annuity. They would like the commission refunded.
background
Mr C held a personal  pension with Prudential. He contacted it in October  2017,  in advance of 
his selected retirement  date of January 2018. He was told to call back  nearer that date. 
When he did so, he discussed  his options  and it was agreed that Prudential would obtain an 
enhanced annuity quote because of Mr C and Mrs Os health.
Prudential used a third party provider to set up an enhanced annuity  for Mr C which would 
be payable to Mrs O after he died. The anticipated start date was Mr Cs 65th birthday  but 
arranging the annuity took some time, and it wasnt set up by Mr Cs selected retirement 
date. 
The transfer of funds to the annuity provider was confirmed by Prudential  on 
27 February 2018 and the annuity  was eventually set up in March  2018. Mr C complained  
about the delays and Prudential agreed  to complete a loss calculation. It also agreed to pay 
£75 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
It took some time to carry out the loss calculation  partly  due to an error  on the annuity 
providers part. And during  the process  Mr C questioned  why commission had been  paid to 
Prudential. 
Prudential ultimately  paid redress for the delay in setting  up the annuity, but it said it had 
disclosed details of the commission it was due for arranging the annuity.
But Mr C wasnt  happy with that outcome and brought  his complaint to us.
An adjudicator considered  the matter and said the complaint should be upheld. He felt that 
Prudential had fairly compensated Mr C for the initial delays.  He accepted  that the 
commission was due, and that it had been  disclosed. But he thought, on the balance of 
probability, that Mr C had been  misled regarding commission during a phone  call in mid-
2018. He recommended  that Prudential paid £100  for any distress  caused by the incorrect  
information.
Prudential agreed  to pay the compensation but Mr C did not accept the adjudicators view, 
which he felt was biased. So he asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  
and its been passed to me for a final decision.  
Im aware that Mr C and Mrs O have a separate complaint against the annuity provider. I 
wont be considering  that complaint here as it will be dealt with separately, but I can assure  
Mr C and Mrs O that I have also looked  at the information on that case  to get an overall 
picture of what has happened.
Ref: DRN77430932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators assessment and for largely the same reasons.
Mr C has explained that his complaint is centred on a number of telephone  conversations  he 
had with Prudential  and the annuity  provider. He says during those calls Prudential  said it 
wouldnt usually charge for this type of business, so he doesnt think its fair that it did take 
commission from the annuity provider  without  making him aware.  
Ive listened very carefully to those telephone calls and considered all the other evidence  
thats been provided. Ive set out my findings in relation to Mr Cs complaint points below.
Delays in setting up the annuity
Theres no dispute that the annuity was set up some  months  after it should have been. Ive 
seen evidence to show the funds werent  transferred to the annuity provider until 
27 February 2018, although  the annuity  should  have been  in place by Mr Cs selected 
retirement date of 13 January 2018. It would  seem the delay was caused by Mr C being  told 
to contact Prudential  one month before  his retirement date. But as the various annuity 
options hadnt been discussed, when it was then confirmed that Mr C and Mrs O might 
qualify for an enhanced  annuity  with the potential additional medical  processes  that might  
involve  it wasnt possible to get the annuity set up on time.
But Prudential has acknowledged the delay and carried out a loss calculation   which 
resulted in a redress  payment to Mr C and Mrs O for their joint life annuity  plan.  The redress  
covered the missed annuity payments with interest  added, the interest lost on the tax free 
cash sum, and £75 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
In a telephone call with Prudential about his complaint, Ive heard how Mr C said he 
accepted the amount offered as repayment of what hed lost due to the delay  although  he 
didnt accept that the commission payment should have been charged. And Ive looked at 
the calculation  Prudential carried out, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint and broadly in line with what I would have asked it to do. So I 
think Prudential has acted  correctly  in acknowledging the delay and in how its tried to put 
the resultant financial loss right.  
Was Prudential right to charge commission?
In its retirement pack Prudential explained the service it was providing as limited to sourcing 
an annuity provider  offering the most competitive  terms relevant to your requirements. 
Advice is not provided in relation to the suitability of an annuity
During the conversation Mr C had with Prudential on 13 December 2017  the adviser said he 
couldnt give Mr C any further  ideas of how to take his pension because  he was non-
advised.  And Mr C himself  said I know you cant give me any advice unless you know of 
anything better.
And in another call from 18 December 2017  Ive heard how another  adviser  made a number  
of references  to the fact that he wasnt giving  advice explaining  that We no longer  offer an 
annuity so it is on a non-advised basis from external annuity providers, once you select one 
Ref: DRN77430933it then moves over to that provider  and whether  Mr C was then happy to proceed non 
advised?
So Im satisfied that Prudential explained the basis on which  it would be helping Mr C and 
what he could expect  from it on a non-advised level. But Mr C also says that he didnt 
request financial  advice as hed already been  previously  given advice by his adviser. So he 
doesnt think he should pay for something  that was charged as advice
The Financial Conduct Authority  the industry  regulator  explains the difference  between  
non-advised and advised  sales  in its handbook, and confirms what would distinguish one 
from the other. But that doesnt mean a provider isnt able to charge for its non-advised 
services, typically  in the form of commission. And I dont think its unreasonable  for 
Prudential to have  done that here,  although I would have expected it to confirm that it would 
be earning commission and to have given some  explanation of the work involved to 
substantiate any charges.
And here I think Prudential did cover  those two expectations. In the same  December 2017 
call the adviser explained  that Prudential was going to obtain quotations from its panel of 
annuity providers  which might involve an enhancement due to Mr Cs medical  history.  And in 
response Mr C said youre going to put me with someone that is ok? So I think Mr C, who 
had already said his friend  who was a financial  adviser  had given him some  initial  advice, 
would have been aware that Prudential was looking into various options for him. And I think 
it was clear from the conversation that Mr C was likely to have gone with whatever provider 
Prudential could demonstrate offered him the best annuity.
Prudential also explained the process involved.  This included gathering information about 
Mr Cs personal  situation  and objectives,  looking at what could be offered from its panel of 
annuity providers,  arranging medicals  (or at least arranging  to discuss  Mr C and Mrs Os 
medical history) before  another  discussion with Mr C about the exact  figures involved and 
whether he wanted  to go ahead  or make his own arrangements elsewhere. As the adviser  
said We do all the work for you, well arrange an appointment  for the medical specialist. 
So I think it was clear  that there was a reasonable amount of work  involved in setting up 
Mr Cs annuity, including  obtaining quotations for the highest possible income available  in 
the circumstances. I cant  safely say Prudential shouldnt have earned commission  for its 
role here and I think Mr C should  have  been  aware that the amount of work involved was 
likely to involve some costs to him.
Ive gone on to consider whether Prudential did disclose  the costs  involved to Mr C. And Ive 
heard how,  during the conversation where  the adviser gathered all of the initial information  
before applying for annuity quotes, he said the provider will make  an one off commission  
payment to us for our non-advised  service  and will confirm the amount on our final quote 
once youve chosen an income  from a provider.
Ive seen a copy  of that final quote  which Aviva provided. It stated for arranging your plan, 
we will make one commission payment to Prudential Distribution Limited  of £2,016.72 
immediately. 
And in a subsequent conversation on 12 January  2018 another adviser confirmed to Mr C 
that if you decide to go ahead with the quotation  I send out to you in the post, Prudential will 
receive a one-off commission  payment  from your chosen provider.The  commission  will 
Ref: DRN77430934be detailed on your annuity quotation, but please make sure that youre comfortable with 
this
Ive also seen that the application form Prudential used to gather all the relevant information 
about Mr Cs and Mrs Os health  had a section for adviser details to be completed.  The basis 
of the sale was non- advised  and the remuneration  request was noted  as commission  
(only available on non- advised  sales)  100% of entitlement
 
So I think Prudential did act reasonably in asking  for and receiving commission for its 
dealings with Mr C, and I think it did confirm,  in a number of ways, that it would charge 
commission. I would have  expected Mr C, based on the evidence Ive seen, to have queried 
the references to commission if he didnt think Prudential was entitled to it. I know  
Mr C will say that he did query  the payment  when he saw it within the paperwork.  And hes 
said that Prudential  never explicitly said the commission  would come from his pension  fund.
But I think Prudential did confirm it would receive commission on a number of occasions and 
I cant say its done  anything wrong  there  even if Mr C would have liked the explanation to 
have been clearer.  In any case I think Prudential demonstrated to Mr C that it had to do a 
significant amount  of work to provide enhanced annuity quotes which then provided  him with 
the highest amount of income it was able to obtain, using the panel of providers. I think  
Prudential was entitled to charge for the work involved. 
Did Prudential communicate its commission position  correctly to Mr C?
Mr C says the issue of commission payments arose  while  he was communicating with 
Prudential about  the redress calculation. He says that, over a number  of telephone calls, he 
was told by Prudential  that it didnt charge commission for the type of work it had done for 
him, whereas the annuity provider confirmed Prudential had requested a commission  
payment.  
So, although  I think Prudential was entitled to charge commission   and in my view did 
confirm that it would do so, I have considered  whether  Prudential  communicated this 
information correctly  to Mr C throughout the process. And, having listened very carefully to 
the phone  calls I agree with the adjudicator that, at various times, the adviser wasnt  clear in 
his explanation and may have misled Mr C or at least raised  his expectations  of what he 
should have been charged  for setting  up the annuity.
Ive heard how Prudential stated we didnt take any of this money from the amount 
transferred to Aviva  and confirmed that it didnt  usually charge for these type of 
transactions. I can understand Mr Cs frustration at what  he was told as the adviser seemed 
to be denying any commission  was paid when it was clear that it had been. In my view,  the 
telephone calls made after Mr C complained  that he wasnt made  aware commission would  
be paid, do suggest  that Prudential wasnt entirely  clear with its explanation for receiving  the 
payment. 
Whilst this doesnt  support  Mr Cs claim that commission  wasnt due, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Prudential  should have been clearer and that its confusion  would have 
caused Mr C some degree of inconvenience by raising his expectations  of what was correct. 
And I agree that, in all the circumstances, Prudential should pay Mr C a further £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN77430935my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I uphold  Mr C and Mrs Os complaint against  The Prudential  
Assurance Company  Limited. I think The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds original  
offer of redress and £75 for the inconvenience  caused over the delay to the annuity payment 
is fair and reasonable in that circumstance and Ill leave Mr C to liaise  with it to decide 
whether to accept  that offer.
But, in addition, The Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited  should  pay Mr C and Mrs O 
another £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of clarity in its 
communication about whether it should have received commission  for arranging the annuity.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7743093