K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Birmingham Midshires-branded buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage that 
Mr and Mrs H hold with Bank of Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy and very distressed by the 
actions that Birmingham Midshires took when  the mortgage fell into arrears.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
but in what follows,  I have, summarised  events in rather less detail than has been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
Another reason  I have  left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of Mr and Mrs H being  
identifiable when  my decision is published,  due to highly  sensitive background to the case.
Mr and Mrs H have a BTL property.  As a result of changes in their personal circumstances, 
Mr and Mrs H found themselves having to leave their home and relocate to another  part of 
the country in secret. This meant moving away from the BTL as well, making it more difficult  
to manage. Their  tenant stopped paying  the rent, and then eventually  moved out altogether, 
which caused them to fall into arrears on the mortgage.
Birmingham Midshires started legal action for possession,  appointing a firm of solicitors in 
the locality Mr and Mrs H had been  forced  to move away from. Court  proceedings were 
begun, again in the same locality. This presented Mr and Mrs H with an immensely 
distressing situation;  not least because they could not visit their old location without 
extensive security measures.
Mr and Mrs H complained, and when the case came  to us, Birmingham Midshires  put the 
legal action on hold.  Whilst the case has been with us, Mr and Mrs H have secured a new 
tenant, and have resumed monthly  payments. Theyve also been making modest extra  
payments to bring  the arrears  down.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  Birmingham  Midshires  had done anything wrong, and so 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H asked for the case  to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman and so its come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  here is that a lender can take action to recover arrears, including 
beginning possession  action  if it thinks  the situation is serious  enough to warrant it. We dont 
generally second guess or otherwise interfere with lenders judgement  in these areas,  and 
Im not minded  to here. 
Based on the situation as it saw it at the time, I think Birmingham Midshires considered  it 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would  be able to restore the rental  income and get on top of the 
Ref: DRN72131902arrears. As it happens, Mr and Mrs H did manage to get things back  on track, and Ill return 
to that in due course
In that context, then,  I dont think Birmingham Midshires was wrong to begin the possession  
proceedings when it did. The choice of solicitors and the location of the proceedings were 
always going to be troublesome. Birmingham Midshires was aware of Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances, and the very real difficulties theyd face dealing with proceedings in their old 
locality; and it had a duty of care to minimise the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs H. 
Im not entirely satisfied  the bank met that duty with its choice of location for the proceeding 
or the solicitors conducting them. Thats not to say theres any reason to think  the solicitors 
would not have conducted themselves entirely professionally  and to a high standard;  but its 
fair to say Birmingham Midshires  could have  been  a bit more  sensitive  to how Mr and Mrs H 
would perceive the appointment.  As to the problems theyd face in attending proceedings 
personally, there was always the option of Mr and Mrs H asking the court to move the action 
to a new court in another location.
I mentioned earlier that Mr and Mrs H have been paying the mortgage  and something 
towards the arrears   whilst the case has been  with us. Weve checked  the current position 
with Birmingham Midshires and its told us that the arrears have fallen since  
November 2018,  albeit only by a modest amount. Itd also said that at the moment, its 
litigation file is closed.  
Birmingham Midshires has suggested  that the best way to prevent any resumption  of legal 
action would be for Mr and Mrs H to formalise an arrangement to continue bringing  the 
arrears down. In my view thats  a good suggestion,  and I urge Mr and Mrs H to engage with 
Birmingham Midshires, without any recrimination  about whats gone  before, and agree 
between them how the remaining arrears  will be cleared.
I would never say that Birmingham Midshires couldnt restart  possession proceedings in 
future, if the payment situation was to deteriorate again. But Id very much  hope that wont  
happen, and that the business and Mr and Mrs H can communicate on terms that allow that 
risk to be minimised. Nonetheless, I would urge Birmingham  Midshires  to think  very carefully 
about its appointments and choices of venue,  and be mindful of its duty of care to 
Mr and Mrs H, if it does find itself having to go down the legal route  again.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7213190