K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Gerald  Pepper  Financial Management  Limited (GPFM) gave 
them incorrect advice to transfer their cash ISAs into stocks and shares ISAs. Theyve 
explained that this caused them to suffer a financial loss.
background
At the beginning  of November 2017,  Mr and Mrs J had a meeting with GPFM to review  their 
current cash investments as they werent happy with the amount of interest  they were 
earning. GPFM said they completed a full review of Mr and Mrs Js circumstances so they 
could make recommendations based  on these discussions. 
Later that month, GPFM  met with Mr and Mrs J again to provide them with the 
recommendations theyd made. They provided  an investment report  to Mr and Mrs J 
detailing both their current financial position  and the suggested investments based on their 
desire to earn more  interest on their cash balances. They recorded that Mr and Mrs J 
wanted to receive  capital  growth potential in excess of current interest rates  and inflation  
over the medium to longer term. Their attitude  to risk was assessed as low medium risk 
which GPFM  said meant a rating of 4. But as Mr and Mrs J were  unhappy  with the 
associated level of volatility, GPFM  agreed with Mr and Mrs J this would be better suited to a 
rating level 3 and noted investors in this category  have a low-medium  risk tolerance,  and are 
likely to be concerned  about the possibility of losing money, but do not want to completely 
ignore the possibility of making higher returns.
So GPFM recommended Mr and Mrs J transfer their cash ISA balances of around £150,000 
into stocks and shares ISAs, and use some of their cash  savings to utilise the unused  
current ISA allowance  of £19,900 each. They also recommended around £61,500 be 
transferred from their cash savings into General Investment  Accounts  (GIA),  and around 
£18,500 to be left in the cash savings for instant access as needed. This was all to be 
invested in a model portfolio produced by an investment  manager  Ill call F.  
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs J complained to GPFM. They  said they werent  told there was any 
risk to the new investments and theyd been  tied into them.  This meant they hadnt been 
able to pay for a relations  funeral  costs  when theyd needed to - which caused them 
significant distress. They  said they didnt feel they understood the processes  involved or the 
risk rating theyd been given and felt pressured to go ahead with the recommendations. They 
also said theyd been told there werent any fees or charges for the investments. But an 
upfront fee had been charged and the documentation theyd been given also said future 
adviser fees could  affect the funds  performance.    
GPFM upheld  Mr and Mrs Js complaint in part. They apologised and said the initial charge 
had been taken incorrectly due to an administration error so theyd arranged  for an 
immediate refund. And they confirmed there wouldnt be any ongoing fees to GPFM for the 
business either.  They explained  they were happy  with the recommendations the adviser had 
made as they considered these were  suitable for Mr and Mrs J based on the information 
theyd given at the initial meeting. And that they didnt  understand how Mr and Mrs J felt 
pressured by the adviser  when he wasnt make a financial  gain from these transactions.
They also said it wasnt uncommon  for customers to want  to take differing levels of risk with 
different portions of their money. And Mr and Mrs J had wanted  to take less risk with their 
investments than Mr J had wanted  to take with his pension  which hed discussed at a 
Ref: DRN73349522previous meeting with GPFM. They confirmed that Mr and Mrs Js investments offered 
immediate access at any time, so they werent  tied in to them  and therefore would have 
been able to access funds for the funeral costs if theyd needed to.  Mr and Mrs J didnt 
agree so they asked this service to look into their complaint.
Our adjudicator thought GPFM  had done  enough to put things right. He felt that GPFM had 
made a genuine  mistake  with the fee and when they were aware it had been  taken, they 
refunded it immediately and apologised. He said he was satisfied that the adviser  had 
conducted his risk assessment appropriately, and what was recommended was suitable 
given the level of risk theyd agreed  and their objectives for their money. He also said he 
hadnt seen any record that Mr and Mrs J had contacted GPFM  when theyd needed their 
money for the funeral  costs. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They said the adviser  hadnt shown them  the documents he was 
supposed to have discussed.  They also said the information on the fact-find document was 
false and options  of taking different amounts of risk werent discussed with them.  And they 
said they hadnt seen anything except  the signature  pages of the documents  and had never 
been given a copy of anything. So they asked  for an ombudsman to review their case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain why. 
The key dispute  here seems  to be what was discussed with the advisor initially  in November 
2017. Both parties accept that the conversation took place, but theres a difference of 
opinion over what was said. Although  what  Mr and Mrs J have said is plausible, so is what  
GPFM have  said too. And as I cant be sure what was said,  I have to consider the other  
information available to decide  what I think is more  likely than not to have happened.  
immediate access to cash deposits
Mr and Mrs J have said the adviser recommended they invest  all their cash deposits and tied 
them into risky investments which meant they werent able to cover Mr Js relatives funeral 
costs. I recognise that this must  have  been a distressing  time for Mr and Mrs J, but I cant  
see that they contacted GPFM at any point  to try and access  their funds. Ive also seen 
evidence on both the advice documentation and product literature, that the ISA and GIA had 
the option to withdraw funds at any time. So I think its clear that Mr and Mrs J couldve 
withdrawn the money when they wanted it. And Im satisfied  that GPFMs advice was 
suitable for them in this regard and I cant fairly hold them responsible  for Mr and Mrs J not 
withdrawing from their investments when they needed to and having  to borrow  funds 
elsewhere.  
objectives and attitude to risk
The key complaint points here seem to be about the advice Mr and Mrs J were given, and 
whether or not it was suitable for them  so this is what Im going to be looking at.
Mr and Mrs J said that the information  within the report isnt correct, and it was completed by 
the adviser without  their input. But the existing  investment amounts within  the report are very 
specific. So I feel that some information must have been discussed, as the adviser  wouldnt 
Ref: DRN73349523have had this without Mr and Mrs J providing  it to him at some  point.  I  recognise  that Mr and 
Mrs J have said they dont  agree with the advisers  version of events, but what I need to 
consider is if this led to them receiving unsuitable  advice. 
Mr and Mrs J have also said that the risk questionnaires  werent completed by them  and 
they never wanted to take any risk. They also said that they only went  ahead  with the 
recommendations as they were told it would give them guaranteed growth. However, Im not 
persuaded that the adviser wouldve answered  these questions  on Mr and Mrs Js behalf  
without discussing their attitude to risk. And I dont think  its likely Mr and Mrs J wouldve 
invested around £200,000  without any knowledge of what  they were  investing in. So Im 
more persuaded  by the level of detail  within  the fact find that a full review was carried out, 
and that Mr and Mrs Js attitude to risk was discussed. 
Ive looked at all the correspondence received  from Mr and Mrs J stating how averse they 
were to risk, and considered what theyve told us about the promise of higher growth. Ive 
also looked at the evidence provided  by GPFM, and when looking at the recommendations, I 
think they suitably  matched  what Mr and Mrs J were  looking for in terms of growth as well as 
their low tolerance for losses. The 3 risk profile  notes  Investors in this category have a low-
medium risk tolerance,  and are likely to be concerned about the possibility of losing money, 
but do not want to completely ignore the possibility  of making higher returns  and You 
probably want greater  returns than are offered by bank accounts and other low risk 
investments and therefore are prepared to accept  some  fluctuation  in return  for potential  
growth. So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J were advised to invest  in risky 
investments.
Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs Js capacity for loss and Ive seen that the adviser  
recommended that around £18,500  was to be left as cash  savings for instant access. And 
that Mr and Mrs J had two mortgage-free properties, and a combined annual  income  of 
around £32,000, which was more than sufficient to cover their monthly outgoings. So Im 
also satisfied that the investments were affordable for Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J initially said they didnt want too much risk, which seems consistent with what  
the business recorded. Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs Js attitude to risk was reduced from 
the original risk rating to reflect their inexperience as investors.  So on balance,  I think that 
discussions did take place  and the attitude to risk recorded  by GPFM did reflect what Mr and 
Mrs J wanted to achieve. Mr and Mrs J have said they didnt want to take any risk with their 
money or move it out of the bank. But Im not persuaded thats what they said at the time of 
the meeting. Mr and Mrs J have previously  said that the investments didnt meet  their risk 
appetite  not that they didnt want any risk at all. Ive looked at the fact-find from GPFM and 
I think that given  the level of detail, and the change  from a risk rating of 4 to 3, I think its 
likely when  the meeting took place that Mr and Mrs J were  willing  to take some  risk.     
Mr and Mrs J have said they dont  understand why they had risk rating of 3/10 on this report 
and 6/10 on another report. Im aware that Mr J has previously had a meeting with GPFM to 
review his pension  requirements, but as Mr Js pension  review isnt part of this complaint I 
cant comment on this. However,  I have noted  in GPFMs final response  to Mr and Mrs J 
they explained that customers can have  different risk tolerances for different  products, which  
I think is reasonable. 
investment
Ref: DRN73349524The dispute  here centres on Mr and Mrs Js view that the investment  portfolio recommended  
wasnt suitable for them. So I need  to decide whether thats the case.
Ive seen that GPFM recommend that Mr and Mrs J transfer their current cash  ISAs to a 
new stocks and shares ISA, use the current stocks and shares ISA allowance for 2017/2018  
for each  of them, and then put the remainder of their cash  balance  (less the £18,807  they 
were advised to leave  in their bank account) into a sole GIA.  
The adviser noted hed recommended the Fs stocks and shares ISA and GIA each 
because this would allow Mr and Mrs J to consolidate  their individual ISAs  into a sole ISA 
each to make it easier for them to manage. It was also able to provide access to a wide 
range of investment opportunities, making it simple to tailor your investment strategy  towards 
your objective for capital  growth potential over the medium to long term and reflect  changing 
objectives, market  conditions or should  your risk profile change  in the future.  The adviser 
also noted that by having  both investment products, Mr and Mrs J could annually  utilise  a 
Bed and ISA facility  meaning they could  choose  to fund their ISAs from the GIA for tax 
efficiency. So I feel that the adviser wasnt acting unreasonably by making a 
recommendation to save Mr and Mrs J time and inconvenience. 
GPFM recommended  Mr and Mrs J invest 100% in F Wealth  3 portfolio which had a risk 
range of 2 (low) to 4 (low, medium  risk). Ive seen  evidence  that the portfolio broadly 
consisted of 49% fixed interest, 29.40% Equity,  8.82% currency, 7.84% property, 2.94% 
mixed assets and 2% cash. Ive also seen the companies which  the portfolio is invested in 
and I think based  on Mr and Mrs Js objectives  the portfolio  was suitable as it offered 
security but also the opportunity for the better-than-bank return they wanted,  while  not 
exposing them to more  risk that they were willing to accept. So Im satisfied that the model 
portfolio was suitable for Mr and Mrs Js needs  and objectives mentioned above. 
Mr and Mrs J have said they didnt  understand the DFM process so they shouldnt  have 
been offered this. However, I dont agree. Mr and Mrs J wanted  to receive more interest on 
their money whilst keeping the risk to a minimum. In order  for GPFM to meet Mr and Mrs Js 
needs, the risk was diversified by investing  in portfolios. The DFM  process means that the 
investments were managed on Mr and Mrs Js behalf to stay within  their agreed  risk profile   
rather than paying  another fund manager  to do this or Mr and Mrs J doing this directly   
which I feel was unlikely  as theyve already mentioned they arent sophisticated  investors. 
Im satisfied that the way the arrangement would work was clearly  explained  in the 28 
November 2017  investor report  and therefore  Mr and Mrs J wouldve understood it. 
Ive seen evidence  that GPFM  recommended  the Fs Wealth  investment platform because  it 
allowed Mr and Mrs J to see all of their investments in one place, and select  funds  from 
different fund providers  into a consolidated  portfolio. GPFM also noted  Fs market  expertise 
and advanced  technology meant they were  able to negotiate exceptional terms. I feel that 
because of Mr and Mrs Js inexperience GPFM  were right not to outsource this to a fund 
manager. Given the size of their investment, it wouldve been suitable to spread their money 
over a number of investments or funds. By using  a portfolio that matched their needs from a 
company like F this meant  they didnt  need to pick all the different investments themselves 
or worry about things  changing over time or the more expensive costs  involved. I also feel 
that by recommending  Fs Wealth portfolio, Mr and Mrs Js investments could be proactively 
managed in-line  with both their attitude to risk. So Im satisfied the recommendation Mr and 
Mrs J received was suitable  to meet  their needs.
the meetings
Ref: DRN73349525Mr and Mrs J said they felt pressured to accept the advisers recommendations for the 
investment, and the meetings they had were  very brief and they were rushed to sign the 
documents. But Im not persuaded this was the case. Mr and Mrs J met with the adviser in 
early December 2017 when the forms were completed, but no payment details were taken at 
that time.  In the advisers meeting record he noted Mr and Mrs J would forward the cheques  
for the investment to the GPFM office.  As there was a gap between  the meeting and the 
payment, I dont think this was a pressured sale  as Mr and Mrs J had time to reflect  on 
what was discussed.  Furthermore, Mr and Mrs J did then send the cheques for the 
investments to be processed a few days after the meeting had taken place.  So I feel that 
they had the option  not to proceed if they were unhappy with what  theyd been 
recommended. 
Mr and Mrs J also said they didnt feel there was any explanation and that because of a 
language barrier they didnt understand what they were getting. They said theyd only agreed  
to the recommendations as they were promised guaranteed growth.  And it was only when 
their daughter reviewed  the documents that they realised there was a problem. But Im 
satisfied the documents Mr and Mrs J signed  were clear, and explained in simple  terms what  
they were getting  and what  information GPFM had used  to make their recommendation. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs J have said there is a language barrier, theyve shown 
they can understand written English in dealing with us about this complaint and Im satisfied  
GPFM did enough to make them aware of what they were investing in, to ensure they 
understood it before they committed  to going through with the transaction. I also feel that if 
Mr and Mrs J were unsure of anything, they couldve asked someone explain the 
recommendations before subsequently sending the cheques a few days later. So I dont 
agree that GPFM acted unreasonably  towards  Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J have said that they thought the GPFM  adviser was a union representative from 
Mr Js employer which is why they went ahead with the recommendation. I havent seen any 
evidence that GPFM have  implied  they were  linked to Mr Js employer  or part of a union. 
And I think the documentation  is clear  that the adviser was working for GPFM, so I dont feel 
the adviser misled  Mr and Mrs J. 
charges
Mr and Mrs J said they were  unhappy  that GPFM had charged them a fee initially. But Ive 
seen evidence that as soon as GPFM were made aware this had been  deducted,  they 
refunded it immediately. They also confirmed in their final response letter  that no adviser  
fees would  be payable both initially and in the future. Ive seen that there was an on-going 
servicing fee for annual reviews and access to an adviser of 1% to be deducted from the GIA 
account. But Im satisfied that these were made clear and that the initial  charge was a 
genuine error by GPFM  and this wouldnt affect the future fund performance.  
I can see that the recommendation report mentions the product and investment charges but 
these are based on the performance of the investments  which GPFM dont have control  of. 
Ive also seen the recommendation report noted  the adviser charges were payable  to the 
fund manager,  and that Mr and Mrs Js preference was for on-going  fees to be paid directly 
from the investments.  Ive also seen its clearly documented on the report (in numerous 
sections) that the effect of charges is reflected in the reduction  of yield or total expense  ratio 
of the selected  investment.   So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs J were  both aware  of how their 
future charges would be paid and the potential impact this could have on their investments.    
Ref: DRN73349526I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs J as its not the outcome they were 
hoping for. But based on everything Ive seen, I cant say GPFM have acted unreasonably. 
So I wont  be asking them to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334952