K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited  has refused to pay for an injection he had in 
his eye. He says the insurer didnt tell him that he should have sought further authorisation 
before going ahead with the injection, and it has wrongly categorised his eye condition as 
chronic.
background
In early January  2018 Mr M called BUPA and told it that his optician  had referred  him to see 
a specialist. BUPA pre-authorised an appointment for Mr M to see that person.
Mr M met the specialist  (who I will call Consultant 1) on 8 January. A diagnosis  of Retinal 
Vein Occlusion (RVO)  was confirmed,  and Consultant 1 referred Mr M to a different 
specialist who concentrated specifically on retinas  (Consultant 2). Mr M met Consultant 2 on 
13 January and, following an examination, was given an injection in his eye.
Mr M contacted BUPA about two days  later  to say that hed been referred to Consultant  2 
and had been given an injection  but the insurer explained that the injection hed had wasnt  
covered under his policy. Mr M complained. He said he thought  all his treatment was eligible 
under the pre-authorisation, and the insurer hadnt  made it clear that he needed  to seek 
anything further.
BUPA said it had only given authorisation for Mr M to have tests  under the care of 
Consultant 1, and it had asked him to call back if anything further was needed. The insurer 
said that RVO was a chronic condition, and cover for its treatment wasnt  available under  
Mr Ms policy. However, as a gesture of goodwill, BUPA  agreed  to cover the cost of 
Consultant 2s appointment, but maintained its decision not to pay for the injection.
Unhappy with BUPAs  decision,  Mr M approached this service.  He repeated his original 
concerns and also said that his condition should not have been  classified as chronic 
because it had only become apparent a few weeks earlier. One of our investigators looked at 
what had happened. He felt that:
BUPA had given  Mr M enough  information to make  him aware  that he should have 
got in contact again if anything changed,  or if he needed treatment for anything more  
than hed discussed 
RVO  did fall under  BUPAs definition of chronic
BUPA had acted  reasonably in paying  for Consultant 2s appointment as a gesture of 
goodwill
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  but Mr M disagreed. He 
said that BUPA didnt  specifically tell him all treatment was not covered, and the information 
its call handler gave  him was inadequate. He said that his condition  shouldnt be described 
as chronic  because it hadnt existed for a long time  and BUPAs gesture of goodwill was 
also inadequate.
my findings
Ref: DRN79940782Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In my opinion, the two factors  I need to 
determine in this case are whether BUPA made it clear  to Mr M that he needed  to get back 
in contact for further authorisation, and whether it reasonably concluded  that RVO was a 
chronic condition.  
Mr Ms insurer gave  him a pre-authorisation  number in January 2018  when  he contacted it 
to say his optician had referred him to Consultant 1. During that call BUPAs call handler  
said: 
 it will cover you for any tests you need. If you want to do further eye tests  whilst you are 
there, or you need a scan of the eye, that will all be included. We would just say anything 
further, if then needed,  just give us a call back and let us know .
BUPA also sent Mr M a text message afterwards which,  as well as including  the pre-
authorisation number,  said:
This authorisation is subject to the rules and benefit  limits of your scheme. Please note we 
do not cover  the fees of any drugs, dressings or appliances which  are prescribed on an 
outpatient basis. If anything changes or for further authorisation please contact
Mr M has said that BUPA didnt make it clear that not all his treatment would be covered, but 
the available  evidence doesnt reflect that. In my opinion, it shows that Mr M was told what  
the pre-authorisation  covered and, both on the phone and by text, that he should get back in 
touch if anything changed.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  the call handers  choice of words (specifically, just give us a call 
back and let us know)  were a throw-away comment, but pre-authorisation  isnt a guarantee 
of cover.  Unfortunately, Mr M didnt contact  his insurer  before seeing Consultant 2, so it 
didnt have the opportunity to tell him that cover  would not be available.  I understand that 
realising his policy would not provide cover after his treatment had taken  place must have 
been very difficult for Mr M. But, for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that BUPA 
failed to make it clear that he needed to get back in contact for further authorisation. 
Mr M has also said that his condition shouldnt be categorised as chronic because  it was 
only diagnosed  around the time he contacted BUPA. I do understand his point, but what  I 
have to decide here is whether it was reasonable of BUPA to conclude that RVO was a 
chronic condition  in line with the terms and conditions Mr Ms policy.  
BUPA has defined what it means  by chronic:
[] a disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it required your rehabilitation  or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
Ref: DRN79940783it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back. 
The available evidence shows that RVO  is managed through  on-going  treatment. It also 
shows that treatment  does not cure the condition   it only helps to improve  its symptoms. I 
do accept that, at the point Mr M was first in contact with the insurer,  his condition had not 
long been diagnosed. But RVO does fall under the chronic definition as set out in Mr Ms 
policy and, therefore,  in my opinion it was not unreasonable of the insurer to decline cover 
on that basis. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels  BUPAs  gesture of goodwill (that was, covering the costs of 
Consultant 2s appointment) is inadequate but, in all the circumstances, I am of the opinion 
that the insurer has not acted unreasonably  in declining to cover  the cost of the injections. I 
realise that Mr M will be disappointed by this, but the insurer  has already done more that it 
was required to do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.  
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994078