K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complained that he was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has taken  responsibility  for this 
complaint.
background
Mr Q bought the policy in November 2003 when he took out a store card.  FICL  said that the 
sale took place  in-store, and that Mr Q wasnt advised to take the PPI. Mr Q said he was 
unhappy about the policy as he didnt think he was getting any benefit  from it. 
The policy cost £1.50 for each  £100 Mr Q owed on his store card. If hed successfully 
claimed on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid 
out 15% of what he owed  on the card when  he stopped working. This wouldve carried on 
until he returned to work  or the balance  was cleared. The policy also included  price and 
purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the policy  was mis-sold. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
I should also make clear that this decision only relates to the sale of the PPI .Mr Q said he 
was also unhappy  about the policy because he attempted  to make a claim on it in 2017  and 
was told he couldnt.  However, I can see from the final response letter  that FICL sent out last 
February that it said it had no record of an attempted claim  and it gave an address for Mr 
Q to contact. If Mr Q has not done  so already,  he may wish to contact FICL to see if its 
possible for him to make a retrospective  claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Qs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL sent us a copy of Mr Qs store card application. From this I can see that he signed  the 
form  separately from his signature for the credit - to say that he wanted to take out the PPI. 
I think he couldve chosen not to sign for it. So on balance  I think Mr Q was most likely given 
a choice about taking it, and decided  to do so. 
FICL didnt  advise Mr Q to take out the PPI. But it should still have given him enough 
information for him to decide  if the policy was right for him. I think FICL couldve explained 
the cost and benefits more clearly, but I dont think this wouldve  affected  Mr Qs decision to 
take out the policy. 
I cant know how the salesperson explained  the policy, as the sale took place in a store.  The 
cost of the policy was shown  on the application  form as 1.5p for every pound of the monthly  
balance. And theres a reference to a separate document with more  details. But I dont have 
a copy of this. I have a copy  of the PPI policy, but FICL said that this wouldve been sent out 
Ref: DRN72886062after the sale. So its not clear what information Mr Q wouldve had when he took out the 
card and PPI. 
I also cant say whether the salesperson  clearly  pointed  out the main things the policy didnt  
cover, although I cant see that Mr Q wouldve been affected by any of these. Mr Q told us 
that, when he took out the policy, he had some  savings but couldnt remember  what sick pay 
he might  have been entitled  to from his employer. On that basis I think  Mr Q couldve found it 
difficult to make the card repayments if he couldnt  work.  So I think  the PPI couldve provided 
a useful benefit.
Overall, although I dont think FICL fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr Q 
would have acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. The cover  couldve 
provided useful  protection for him if he couldnt  work. This means Mr Q isnt worse off as a 
result of what FICL did wrong,  so theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288606