K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) is asking her to pay an 
outstanding amount under a hire purchase agreement  she took out with them. In particular, 
Miss G feels  she shouldnt be charged the full amount of interest.  
background
Miss G took out a hire purchase agreement for a car with Moneyway in July 2016. 
Moneyway sent Miss G a default  notice in January 2017 as her account had fallen into 
arrears and followed this up the following month with a letter which  said they intended to 
take further action  as payment hadnt been  made. Moneyway then wrote to Miss G on 27 
February 2017 saying  her agreement had been terminated. 
Miss G says she voluntarily handed  the car back  to Moneyway in August 2017 and found it 
then difficult to get any detail from them on how much they sold the car for at auction. Miss G 
wrote to Moneyway  in September  2017 after shed received  a letter  from them saying she 
could pay them 90% of the total outstanding balance. She asked Moneyway to send her a 
breakdown of the balance  and confirm how much  they sold the car for. 
Miss G wrote  to Moneyway again the following month and asked them to confirm in writing 
that theyd sold the car and how much they sold it for. She also asked Moneyway to confirm 
that theyd reworked what she owed to take into account shed voluntarily given the car back 
and to confirm  that her credit file reflected this. 
Miss G then asked our service  to look into what had happened.  Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that Moneyway had terminated Miss Gs agreement because  
it was in arrears and wouldnt recommend they changed what they were asking her to pay. 
Our investigator also felt that Moneyway had tried to help Miss G get back  on track with her 
account before they terminated  it. So he felt Moneyway hadnt done anything  wrong.  
Miss G didnt  agree. She said Moneyway wanted  a repayment plan of more  than she could 
afford and that she stopped paying  them  because  the car was faulty. Miss G also mentioned 
that she felt the cars mileage had been  tampered with and the full service  history of the car 
wasnt as she expected. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 25 July 2019.  My provisional  findings said:
Miss G feels  she shouldnt have to pay the full amount of interest  due under the 
finance agreement  because she voluntarily gave the car back. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss G but I dont agree that she did voluntarily terminate her finance  agreement.  Ill 
explain why. 
Moneyway terminated  Miss Gs finance  agreement in February 2017 because  of the 
arrears that had built up. Ive looked at the account statement for Miss Gs agreement  
and can see that no payments  had been  made between November 2016  and 
February 2017. And I note that Moneyway  had sent Miss G a default notice in 
January 2017  which  outlined  that one of the options  they would take if the arrears  
werent repaid  would be to terminate the agreement and start repossession  
proceedings. 
Ref: DRN71116252Miss G didnt  make up these arrears so I think Moneyway was entitled to terminate 
the agreement. I realise Miss G says that Moneyway didnt help her as they were  
asking for money  she couldnt afford. I note though that, according to Moneyways 
account history notes, Miss G told them twice  in November 2016 she would stop 
paying because  she felt the car was faulty.  So I think Miss G actually did stop paying 
because of this reason  rather  than the affordability  of the payment arrangement. 
Miss G still clearly  feels the car was faulty.  I should mention at this point that I wont  
be considering  Miss Gs complaint about  the car itself as this has already been 
considered by another ombudsman here. 
Once Moneyway  terminated Miss Gs agreement, they sought  to repossess the car. It 
appears that they didnt do so initially because of the ongoing  dispute  about the car 
itself. But eventually the car was given back to Moneyway  by Miss G. I accept she 
was happy to give the car back. But that doesnt  mean that her liability  to Moneyway 
shouldve been  reduced as she says.  Hire purchase  agreements such as Miss Gs 
includes the right of voluntary termination which has the effect  of capping the 
customers liability to 50% of the total amount owed, as long as all due payments are 
met at that time. However, Miss G lost the right to voluntarily  terminate the 
agreement once Moneyway terminated  it in February 2017. This meant that Miss G 
became liable for the total outstanding  amount that was due under the agreement,  
which would include any arrears. And this would not include a rebate  or reduction of 
interest.  
Ive taken into account though whether Moneyway  made Miss G aware of her 
voluntary termination  rights before  they terminated the agreement. And, if they didnt  
do so, whether I think they shouldve done and whether Miss G wouldve likely gone 
ahead with this. Ive considered this because Miss G was entitled to exercise  these 
rights whilst the agreement was still active. And this could have in theory meant  she 
would owe Moneyway less than she does  now. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Moneyway made  Miss G aware of her 
voluntary termination  rights. I can see from their notes that there were discussions 
about what Miss G could offer or pay. But I cant see that voluntary termination  was 
specifically discussed.
However, I dont think that voluntary termination of the agreement  was something 
Miss G was considering. It seems  more to me that she had decided  not to pay 
anything further  because she felt the car was faulty.  The only potential time I can see 
that this might have  been discussed was when Miss G spoke to Moneyway in 
November 2016  about her ability to make the monthly payments. Moneyways notes 
seem to indicate that Miss G told them that she was being paid weekly rather than 
monthly and that she suggested paying Moneyway weekly to make things easier. 
I think this is likely what happened, in which case I doubt that voluntary  termination 
wouldve been agreed at that point, as Miss G was still disputing the quality of the 
car. And voluntarily terminating the agreement would have still left Miss G owing 
Moneyway a large chunk of money. 
Ref: DRN71116253At the time Moneyway terminated the agreement,  Miss G owed an outstanding 
balance, which included  arrears, of £9,867.48. This amount  remained owed by 
Miss G. Moneyway reduced this by £3,775.20 following the sale of the car at auction. 
Miss G mentions that Moneyway told her the sale price was £4,200.  I understand the 
£3,775.20 represents the net value received by Moneyway from the auction house  
following the sale. This isnt uncommon as auction houses routinely charge 
commission and fees. 
I realise Miss G feels that Moneyway shouldve contacted her about this and 
explained how much  they sold the car at auction  for. And perhaps  Moneyway 
couldve been clearer about this, although there  is some indication  from their records 
that they told Miss G this when she spoke to them in September  2017. But this 
wouldnt have made any difference  to the amount  of money that Miss G owed 
Moneyway. I understand that the total amount  owed  stands at £6,609.90  and Im 
satisfied this is broadly  the correct amount owed. This amount includes collection 
charges applied in April 2017  and September 2017 and takes into account one 
payment made by Miss G in May 2017. Im unsure whether Miss G is aware  of the 
breakdown of this, so Im happy to include a copy of her account statement in the 
covering letter to my decision. 
Ive also looked  at whether Moneyway acted fairly  when Miss G made them aware  
she couldnt make the payments due under the agreement. Ive mentioned  above 
that Miss G seems  to have told Moneyway that she wouldnt pay because of the 
issues with the car. I can see at that point that Moneyway told Miss G that non-
payment would affect her credit file negatively. Miss G seems to have accepted  this. 
So I doubt whether there was much more  Moneyway could have done to help. 
Nevertheless, I can see that Moneyway did agree to accept weekly  payments from 
Miss G in October  2016  as shed told them she was being paid weekly.  And 
Moneyway also accepted  a further  repayment  plan offer from Miss G after the 
agreement was terminated as the car was still in her possession  while  the dispute 
about the quality of the car remained outstanding.  So I dont think I can say that 
Moneyway wasnt amenable to Miss Gs circumstances.  Miss G says these werent 
affordable to her. But I have to balance  that with her saying to Moneyway that she 
wouldnt pay because of the problems with the car. Overall, I think  Moneyway acted 
reasonably. 
It seems  that Moneyway  has now passed  the debt to its sister  company. So Miss G 
will need  to contact them to arrange  a suitable repayment plan to reduce and clear 
the outstanding balance.  If Miss G is unaware  who to contact, she might want  to 
contact Moneyway about this. 
My provisional decision was not to uphold the complaint. I asked the parties for their 
responses. 
Moneyway replied saying  they had nothing further  to add. Miss G didnt reply. 
Ref: DRN71116254my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think my provisional findings (as detailed above) are fair and reasonable. And as neither 
party has provided  anything else for me to consider, Im not minded to change them. My final 
decision is not to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive already given.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111625