K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited  handled a claim on his motor  insurance 
policy following an accident.
background
Mr S insured  his car with esure. Unfortunately he was involved in an accident when another 
car travelling in the opposite direction crossed  to his side of the road and hit the front of his 
car.
Mr S made a claim on his insurance and the car was collected and taken away to be 
assessed. esures engineer found that the cost of repairs was more than the car was worth  
so esure  decided to write the car off. It offered Mr S a settlement figure  for the value of his 
car, but Mr S wasnt happy with the figure  offered as he thought his car was worth much 
more, and hed insured  it for more.
Mr S also wasnt  happy with how the claim had been handled. When esure told him that it 
would show as an open claim until resolved, and if still open or settled as a fault claim could 
potentially impact his renewal premium, Mr S decided  to withdraw his claim and contact the 
other drivers  insurer  to claim  directly. He says he was told his claim had been  closed  but 
was later told it hadnt been.
Mr S wanted  to find out the impact  of the accident on his premium. He asked esure  to tell 
him. But it didnt do so  he says it first said it couldnt, then said it wouldnt tell him that. 
Mr S complained. He said the value hed been offered for his car was too low. He said esure 
had lied to him about the claim being closed and about whether it would impact  his premium. 
He said it hadnt  returned his calls or emails and had been  hard to deal with. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  Mr Ss complaint, so he asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the third partys insurer has admitted liability and paid a settlement to Mr S  I 
dont know how much its for, but in any case it means the valuation esure offered Mr S is 
somewhat academic now. Once  he withdrew  his claim, it would never be paid to him.
However, he is concerned  about how the valuation was arrived at, and I think his 
unhappiness about that is one of the factors that led him to withdraw  his claim. So Ive 
considered whether esure valued  the car fairly.
Mr S says he insured  the car for £18,000,  yet a few months later esure  offered  him just over 
£11,000. He says the car cant have dropped in value by that much in just a few months.  
And no advert for sale that he has seen  is anywhere  near £11,000.
In fact, though,  Mr S didnt insure  his car for £18,000. He insured it for the market value of it 
at the time of any claim.  There are insurance  policies on the market that offer a fixed  value, 
Ref: DRN70510512but this isnt one of them and the terms and conditions make  that clear.  The £18,000 was an 
estimated value at the time the insurance was taken out  but since there was no live claim 
at that point, the car wasnt formally valued.
It only came  to be valued after the accident.  The policy says that esure  is liable to pay the 
market value as it was immediately before the accident. Mr S is right that a valuation  is, in 
the end, just what someone  is prepared to pay. The problem is that that cant be known for 
sure, since  the car wasnt sold just before the accident. All that can be done  is for the value  
to be estimated.
I think the fairest way of valuing Mr Ss car is to use the standard  industry  guides.  Theyre 
based on databases of actual sales of comparable models, adjusted for the features and 
mileage of Mr Ss actual car. I think the guides  based on actual sales are more likely  to be 
accurate than adverts for sale  which are based on the sellers starting price, not the actual 
price paid when  (if) the advertised  car sells. So I think  esure acted fairly, and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, when  it used the guides  to determine the value. Weve checked  
and confirmed the figures esure obtained,  and it used the middle figure of the three  guides  
as the starting  point.  I think that was a reasonable approach.
esure made a deduction for what  it said was pre-existing damage.  Mr S disputes  the specific  
damage esure said was there, though he accepts there was some.  Ive checked the photos, 
and I can see some scratches to the paintwork at the rear of the car and over the wheel 
arch. As the car was hit from the front, and the scratching  is at the back, I dont think it was 
likely to have been caused in the accident.  So in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I 
think it was most likely to have been  there  at the time of the accident. esure made  a 
deduction to the valuation  to account for the damage,  but as the deduction was rather less 
than 50% of the cost of repairing it, I think that was fair.
Ive listened to the calls Mr S recorded with esure, particularly his edited  extracts. But I dont 
think they show that esure lied to him. When Mr S withdrew his claim, esure noted that he no 
longer wished to make  a claim. But it kept the claim live on its systems for a time  in case  
the third party  made a claim  against Mr S, and until it had recovered the costs (such  as 
storage and removal costs for the car) that it had already  paid out. So Mr Ss claim on his 
insurance was closed, but esures processing of the claim  wasnt  closed until all matters  
arising from it had been resolved. esure could have communicated this more  clearly to Mr S, 
but I dont think  its call handlers were being dishonest  or deceptive.
Mr S wanted  to know how, if at all, his renewal premium would be affected by the accident. 
Again, esures  position about  this could have been  explained  more clearly from the start, but 
I dont think there was deception or dishonesty. The fact is that it couldnt be said what 
impact there would be until the time of renewal,  when the calculation would be run  and 
when the accident claim  would,  if it was taken into account, be only one of many factors to 
determine the price  at that time. esure's pricing mechanism is commercially  confidential, and 
it was under no obligation to discuss it with Mr S. I think the call handlers he spoke to were  
very unlikely  to know how it worked, and esure  didnt have to put him through  to someone 
who did. Our adjudicator  explained that the later price increase itself isnt part of the scope of 
this complaint, and its something Mr S will need  to make a separate  complaint. So Ill say no 
more about that here.
Overall, and while I do understand Mr Ss frustration, I dont think it would be fair to uphold  
this complaint. The valuation esure offered was a fair one  and in any case, it wasnt paid to 
Mr S since  he received a settlement direct  from the third party  insurer.  esure handled  the 
Ref: DRN70510513claim fairly, and while it didnt always respond as quickly as Mr S would have wanted to his 
calls and emails I think  it did so within a reasonable time. Its a fact of life when dealing  with 
large companies that theyre not always as responsive as individual  customers might want   
and in that context,  I think esure acted reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051051