K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that Amtrust Europe  Limited  unreasonably refused to deal with his 
claim under the gadget section of his travel policy, when his tablet was damaged when he 
was on holiday.
background
Whilst he was holiday, Mr T accidentally dropped his tablet into the sea. He retrieved it but it 
had stopped working. 
Mr T had been given this tablet as a gift from his daughter. Consequently, he was unable to 
provide the original receipt. So Amtrust refused to deal with his claim.
Unhappy Mr T brought his complaint  to us. The adjudicator was of the view that as Mr Ts 
daughter had confirmed the tablet was given to her father as a gift, and as Mr T had proved 
the tablet was registered to him by his network  provider, it was fair and reasonable Amtrust 
should now deal with his claim.
Amtrust disagreed so Mr Ts complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, given Mr Ts queries when waiting for a decision, should he accept my decision it then 
binding on Amtrust.
Amtrust said its policy term is clear which says the following:
These items  must  be:
purchased from a UK registered company supplied with full UK consumer 
rights and warranties; or
purchased worldwide directly from the manufacturer, a network provider, an 
online retailer or a high street retailer; or
refurbished items  purchased directly from the manufacturer, a network 
provider, an online retailer or a high street retailer and which were supplied  
with a warranty at the time of purchase; or

given to you as a gift and that you have the original proof of purchase  (which 
corresponds to the first 3 point  above) and a signed letter from the original 
owner confirming that you own the gadget(s). This letter  must include  IMEI 
(where applicable),  serial number (where possible), make and model of your 
gadget(s) and the date the device was gifted to you.
Mr Ts daughter has confirmed she bought this tablet as a gift for Mr T. There is no original  
purchase receipt available. Im of the view that when people buy presents for other people, 
they may keep the original receipt for a short while  to ensure the gift is suitable  and working 
correctly but once thats established theres no need to keep the receipt. Here Mr T was 
Ref: DRN74878932obviously using his tablet  and enjoying it. So I consider his daughters email is reasonable 
evidence that she gifted this tablet to Mr T.
Mr T has also shown  the tablet was registered  to his network provider so I consider thats 
reasonable evidence he owned it and was using it. The term asks for the IMEI number 
(where applicable)  and the serial  number (where possible). As Mr Ts tablet is water 
damaged, he cant turn it on to find out both of these things. So its not possible to get the 
serial number presently  and the term permits that. And so consequently its then not possible 
for the IMEI to be applicable and the term also permits that. Both of these issues can be 
resolved, as soon  as Amtrust deal with Mr Ts claim in any event, since  I believe its 
repairable, according  to Mr T. So that means  then Amtrust  will be able to have both the IMEI 
and the serial number  for its records.
Therefore, I dont consider Amtrusts stance on Mr Ts claim has been fair or reasonable. So 
I think it should now settle Mr Ts claim in accordance  with the remaining terms and 
conditions without further delay.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Amtrust Europe Limited  to settle  Mr Ts claim in accordance with the remaining 
terms and conditions without further delay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487893