K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr L took out 16 instalment loans with Sunny between December 2014 and February 2018 
and one running credit account.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans.
Following Mr Ls complaint Sunny agreed  to refund all interest and charges  on loan 1 the 
running credit agreement.  
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  that Mr Ls complaint  about 
loans 4 to 17 should also be upheld. He said it wasnt unfair for Sunny to offer loans 2 and 3 
but at the point of loan 4 Mr Ls borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and Sunny 
shouldve seen that he was persistently relying  on these loans.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  Mr L 
was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Mr L was required to use only a 
small proportion  of his declared  disposable income to repay his loans and there were some 
breaks and reduction  in the lending. Sunny offered to refund interest and charges  on loans 
15 to 17, with 8% interest, and remove these loans  from Mr Ls credit  file. 
Mr L didnt accept that offer so the complaint was passed to me to decide. On 13 January 
2020 I issued  a provisional decision which set out that I was minded to depart from the 
adjudicators conclusions in relation to loans 4 to 6 and not uphold  Mr Ls complaint in 
relation to those  loans.  Mr L had no comments to make on my provisional decision.
Sunny said in an email  dated 28 January 2020 that it did not agree with my conclusions  in 
relation to loans  6 to 14 and set out a number of points that it wished me to consider. Also on 
28 January 2020  the business, after having  reviewed  the complaint, sent an email revising 
its offer to include loans  11 to 17. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
Ref: DRN79220022With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  As Sunny has agreed to refund all 
interest and charges in relation to loans 1 and now 11 to 17 and to remove these from Mr Ls 
credit file I havent considered these further save to include it in the redress and as part of Mr 
Ls overall borrowing pattern.  I have also taken into account the points raised in the email of 
28 January 2020  as they apply to these loans. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr L. It asked Mr L for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ls credit file.
I think that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr L loans 2 to 6 on the basis of the information  
he gave about  his income and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  relationship  and so I 
think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr L and Sunny have not 
raised any objection  to my provisional decision in relation to loans two, three four and five, I 
dont think that I need  to depart from my original conclusions. I dont think it was wrong  for 
Sunny to have given  Mr L these loans.
Sunny has now offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 11 
to 17. Sunny  has asked that I consider its further points as they apply to loans 6 to 14.
Ref: DRN79220023Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ls lending with Sunny to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr L.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I still think  that this point was reached by 
loan six. 
When Mr L took out loan six, hed been borrowing almost continually  for nearly 12 months 
and wasnt making  any real inroads into the amount that he owed. I have taken into account 
that Sunny says that this isnt an extended period of time. I disagree. Short term credit  is 
designed to cover a temporary income  shortfall or unexpected expense. I think  by this point 
Mr L was not using the credit as a temporary  measure given the period of time he had been 
borrowing. I think Sunny should have checked to make sure that he wasnt reliant on this 
credit and I cant see that it did that.
Loan 6 was for £400 and by this point Mr Ls borrowing was increasing.  I think this pattern  of 
lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the likelihood that Mr L was having problems responsibly 
managing his money. Sunny has said that Mr L paid £62 in interest  per month  over 11 
months to service his debt and this was affordable. I dont agree that this is enough for 
Sunny to be satisfied  that Mr L is responsibly managing  his money.  In the face of sustained 
and increasing  borrowing  I think Sunny  should have done more  to check that this borrowing 
was sustainable  and I cant see that it did so.  
I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr L had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr L in the market  for these high-cost loans.
Sunny says that borrowing  pattern  and number of loans may suggest problems but there is 
no other evidence  that this was the case.  I think this evidence is enough to alert the lender 
that the borrowing may be unsustainable.  I cant see that Sunny took proportionate steps to 
satisfy itself that Mr L wasnt in a spiral of debt or experiencing financial  difficulty  before it 
agreed to lend. I note the checks undertaken but in the face of a concerning  borrowing  
pattern that suggests difficulty I think Sunny needed to do more. So I dont think reasonable 
and proportionate affordability  checks were  done.
Although Mr L made repayments on time and there  were some  breaks in the lending  I dont 
think this is enough  to say that the loans were  affordable and responsibly made. Mr L was 
using the credit from Sunny and from other short term lenders to manage day to day. This 
was ultimately not sustainable. 
Because of the continued lending  the effect on Mr Ls credit rating is likely to be significant. I 
am unable  to say whether the amount of the short term lending entries has been  a factor, 
because as Sunny points  out, I cannot  see other  lending decisions.  However,  I think it is 
likely that these loans  will have an impact  on Mr Ls ability to access  mainstream credit.  If 
Ref: DRN79220024Sunny had not given Mr L any of the loans from loan 6 he would not have these on his credit 
file and so I think  it is only fair that they are removed.     
So I uphold Mr Ls complaint about  loans  6 to 17 in addition to loan 1.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr L as though they had been  repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr L having  made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund  the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr L. However  if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr L.
E.The number of loans taken from loan six onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 17 should  be removed from 
Mr Ls credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before the 3 March  2020
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922002