K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in January  2005. The policy was 
added to her card during a phone call conversation. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because  I dont  think Barclays adequately took into 
account her circumstances when recommending the cover.  
This policy wouldnt pay benefit for a disability that is the result  of existing medical 
conditions. Mrs C says she had an existing  medical condition when she was sold PPI. So I 
think the most likely  cause of any future need  for her to claim on the policy wouldnt be 
covered  significantly reducing  the usefulness of the policy for her. Barclays  shouldve 
taken this into consideration when makings  its recommendation.  And I dont think  it did this. 
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mrs C so it was its responsibility to ask sufficient 
questions to ensure  the policy was suitable. And if it had identified  that Mrs C did have an 
existing medical condition it needed to tell her that the policy might not be suitable  for her 
needs because  of this. I cant see that Barclays did this.
Barclays says Mrs Cs condition was very well managed at the time so wouldnt have an 
impact on her daily life. While Mrs Cs condition may have been  under control  at the time of 
sale, she has been clear  that it is a life long condition and one she has always  taken 
medication for. She also says she has had to see a doctor in relation to the condition  every 
six months since diagnosis. 
So overall, I dont  think Barclays did enough  to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs C. I 
think this wouldve mattered to her because she had a medical  condition  when she bought 
the PPI, which  wouldnt  have been covered. And had Barclays  asked the right questions, this 
wouldve been clear.
I dont think Mrs C wouldve bought the PPI if Barclays had pointed  out that it wasnt  suitable 
for her because of her medical  condition.  So I think Mrs C has lost out because of what 
Barclays has done wrong. 
Ive considered Barclays comment that Mrs C wouldve  been  able to claim for other 
conditions. But this doesnt change my conclusion.  
fair compensation
Ref: DRN70176222Mrs C should be put back in the position she would have been  in now if PPI hadnt been 
added to her credit  card. 
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed 
his account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mrs C would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear his balance  Barclays  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Mrs C to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  Plc to pay Mrs C compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7017622