K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) said it couldnt send his new 
bank card to his overseas address. Mr W underwent a great deal of distress  arranging a trip 
to the UK to collect  it. But the card then arrived by post.
background 
Mr W lives overseas. But he kept a UK account for emergencies  and occasional use. He 
contacted Halifax  when his card was due to expire. And the bank  said it would send him a 
new card.  When Mr W didnt receive  the card he contacted Halifax  again. He was promised 
a call back. And he stayed awake  until the early morning because of the time difference. 
Mr W said he didnt  receive the call back.  When he spoke to Halifax  again  he was told hed 
have to come to the UK to collect the card. And he couldnt  ask a friend to collect  it for him. 
Mr W had to ask family and friends  to help him pay for the trip back  to the UK. And he found 
it very humiliating. He made plans to visit people  in the UK during  his brief visit. But the card 
arrived at his overseas  address just before he was due to travel. Mr W had to call and say he 
wouldnt be travelling after all. Although Halifax has paid Mr W compensation he said it 
doesnt cover his costs  and distress.
Halifax said it couldnt send the card to Mr Ws overseas address. It couldnt be sure how 
secure the postal  system was in certain countries. So the card would be sent to a local 
branch. Or Mr W could change his UK address to a trusted  family  member or friend and it 
could send the card there. Halifax apologised that Mr W had to chase for confirmation.  And it 
paid £75 for his distress  and inconvenience and a further £60 for the cost of his calls.
When Mr W complained again Halifax apologised for the unwarranted stress and upset itd 
caused. It could  see it had now sent the card to Mr Ws overseas  address. Even  though itd 
said it wouldnt. Halifax said it would  pay Mr W £250 for his further distress and £25 for his 
recent calls. But after looking into the matter further  it felt it couldve done more  to help. So 
Halifax offered an additional £200 compensation and £30 for any additional  calls.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with Halifaxs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see how much  distress Mr W had been through.  
So he looked at whether  Halifax  had acted fairly  and in line with its procedures.  He felt 
Halifax had given Mr W the correct  information when it said it couldnt  send  his new card to 
the country Mr W lived in. It was on the banks embargo list. But someone had acted outside 
the banks procedures and posted the card.  Our investigator didnt think Halifax  couldve 
reasonably foreseen the impact arranging a trip to the UK would have on Mr W. And he felt 
Mr W couldve altered his address so a trusted  family member  or friend could receive  the 
card for him. He could see how much emotional  upset Mr W had experienced. But overall he 
felt the total of £640 offered for Mr Ws distress and call costs  was reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Halifax was repeatedly breaching its own procedures. It said it 
couldnt send  his new card to an embargoed country. But it did. And itd also sent his new 
security number to his overseas address. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN70989662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how much  impact this has had 
on Mr W. So Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr W and Halifax  have said.  
Mr W was concerned he wouldnt get his replacement card before his current card expired. 
He had payments  he regularly  made. But was told hed have to collect  it from his UK branch 
or alter his address so someone could receive it for him. Mr W decided hed have to return to 
the UK. But he hadnt been back for many years. He had left the country to start a new life. 
And Mr W has explained how upsetting a return to his local area would be for him. I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to be aware of any of the details behind Mr Ws distress. But I do understand 
and sympathise with his reasons.
Mr W said he had to take a week off work and make a great deal of preparation for the trip 
home. He had to purchase new clothes more suited  to the UK. And he arranged to visit 
family and friends  during his intended brief trip. Mr W said he had to borrow  money  for the 
flight. And the whole  experience was very embarrassing. Mr W prepared to travel  to the 
airport and purchase  a ticket. But on the same day he received  his new bank card in the 
post. So Mr W cancelled his trip. And hes been overwhelmed by the emotional impact this 
has had on him.
Halifax says it has a list of countries where it doesnt feel its safe to send certain  types of 
information. And I think thats reasonable. Im sure Mr W wouldnt want someone to intercept 
his new card and use it for fraudulent purposes. So the banks policy is for the customer  to 
collect it in person or to arrange an alternative  UK address where it can send it. Mr W says if 
the bank had explained this when he first got in touch he wouldve had time to arrange 
something. But he wasted two weeks waiting  for a call back. And his friend  was then moving  
house and couldnt help.  So his only option was to visit the UK himself. 
Mr W says hes now been told he couldve used someone with a power of attorney to collect  
his card.  Hes used one before. And I can understand Mr Ws frustration. But I cant  see any 
record to show Mr W had a power  of attorney registered with the bank. So even if Halifax  
had mentioned using a power of attorney it wasnt an option. He would  still have needed to 
visit the UK to put it in place.
I can see Mr W has mentioned hes had problems  receiving  his cards in the past. And he 
said he wasnt made aware of the embargo  change in 2016. Mr W has also received other  
sensitive information  to his overseas address. But the embargo  only applies to debit  cards. 
Halifax has decided there is a greater risk of a physical card being intercepted and used 
fraudulently than, for example,  a security code. And thats a commercial decision  Im not 
able to challenge. I cant tell Halifax how to run its business.
I can appreciate the level of trouble  and upset Mr W has been  through  trying to make 
arrangements to visit the UK to collect  it in person. He felt it was his only option. 
But Mr W couldve continued to make his existing payments online without needing  to 
actually have the replacement card at the same  time. And he could perhaps have asked his 
friend to assist when  the house  move  had taken place. 
I do understand how upsetting it mustve been to revisit both a location and a past 
experience that has caused Mr W such distress. So I can understand his considerable upset 
when he made plans only to receive  the replacement card by post. 
Ref: DRN70989663But Halifax  wasnt aware of Mr Ws previous experiences. And I dont think  it had any reason 
to ask why Mr W would prefer not to return to his local area to collect his card.
I can see thered been problems  getting  Mr Ws previous bank cards to his overseas 
address. And Halifax decided the risk of the physical card being intercepted  was too great.  
So it put procedures  in place to send  new cards to the branch for collection.  And its likely  
someone at Mr Ws local branch was trying  to help by forwarding his replacement  card to the 
overseas address. But Halifax had a procedure in place. And it wasnt  followed.  So 
Mr W was given information that didnt agree with what actually happened.
I can only guess at the distress Mr W has been  through after he felt he had to deal with 
events from his past. And I can see his health  has suffered as a result.  But I cant  hold 
Halifax responsible  for things it wasnt aware  of. I dont think the bank couldve reasonably  
understood what the consequences of a return  to the UK might be. 
The role of this service is to see if Halifax has done something wrong. And if so what  it 
needs to do to put things  right. Halifax put a procedure in place to protect itself and its 
customers in certain  overseas locations. But it wasnt followed. Halifax  has accepted it 
couldve done more  to help Mr W. And after reviewing everything  its agreed to pay a total of 
£640 compensation to cover the distress and inconvenience its caused and the cost of 
Mr Ws calls. 
I dont underestimate  the upset this has caused  Mr W. And I hope  he is able to recover soon.
But based  on everything Ive seen I think the amount Halifax  has offered is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And its the sort of award Id have suggested if the bank 
hadnt already  done so. So I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  should pay Mr W a total of 
£640 compensation as it has already agreed  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7098966