K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  about the ongoing  liability of R for the residual balance  of a fee charged 
by Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) when it provided lending facilities  to a predecessor 
business. R, represented here by director Mr R and accountant Mr T, says the original fee of 
£500,000 was mis-sold  in 1998  and that its unfair that R is still liable for it. The residual fee, 
described in agreements as an exit fee, peaked at £150,000, and R had already reduced it 
to £100,000 when the complaint  started. Mr T has told us that R has since repaid the entire  
exit fee, and is seeking to be refunded the amount paid plus interest and damages.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 13 December 2018,  I set out the reasons why I 
wasnt persuaded this complaint should be upheld. The provisional decision is attached to, 
and forms part of, this final decision. I gave the parties until 13 January 2019  to respond; 
Mr T, on Rs behalf,  responded sooner  than that. He said, in summary:
the complaint  is about maladministration  and/or  unfair  treatment because  BOS never told 
Rs directors what the residual exit fee was for, or why it was suddenly  increased.
Rs directors didnt acknowledge that the fee was payable, as stated in the facility letter; 
they were told they had no option but to pay it;
BOS blatantly disregarded  its core regulatory obligations; instead of getting  to know its 
new customer, it simply imposed  the fee;
the fee was as much a case of mis-selling as other  examples  reviewed by the regulator  
in 2012 and 2013.
BOS didnt have  anything further  to say.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded I 
should change  my view of this complaint.
I note what Mr T has said, but I dont agree that this complaint is about maladministration 
and/or unfair treatment  in the provision  of a financial service.  I remain  of the view that this 
was a negotiation of terms  between  two corporate  entities contracting  business (unregulated 
business at that) with each other. 
If R wasnt satisfied that BOS had provided  a justifiable reason for wanting  to charge the 
disputed fee, or if it felt the fee was being imposed on it against  its will, its option was to look 
elsewhere for alternative finance on better terms. R didnt do that, but continued to renew the 
facility with BOS several times between 2012  and 2017. By doing that, it agreed to the terms 
of the facility, including the fee its now disputing. As Ive said,  its not my role to 
super-impose new business terms retrospectively  on two contracting parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons given above, and as already  stated  in my 
provisional decision dated 13 December 2018, I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN73197902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R or Mr T, on 
Rs behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73197903CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This is a complaint about the ongoing liability of R for the residual  balance of a fee charged by Bank 
of Scotland plc (BOS)  when it provided lending facilities  to a predecessor business. R, represented  
here by director Mr R and accountant Mr T, says the original fee of £500,000 was mis-sold  in 1998 
and that its unfair  that R is still liable  for it. The residual fee, described  in agreements  as an exit fee, 
peaked at £150,000,  and R had already  reduced it to £100,000 when the complaint started.  Mr T has 
told us that R has since repaid the entire exit fee, and is seeking to be refunded the amount paid plus 
interest and damages.
background
Ive reviewed this complaint before, when deciding how much of it our rules  gave us jurisdiction to 
consider. My decision, which was issued  last month, confirmed that we only have limited powers to 
consider the fee incorporated by BOS into the facility  agreements  entered into by R between  October  
2012 and April 2017, and nothing else.
I then invited  both parties to make any final comments on why they considered  the exit fees fair or 
unfair as appropriate, in order that could then consider the arguments for and against on their merits. 
BOS hasnt said anything further, whilst Mr T, on Rs behalf,  has simply updated us on the repayment 
of the remaining £100,000. Earlier, however, hed said that BOS had never  provided a written 
explanation of what the exit fee was for.
my provisional  findings
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
In the preceding sections, I have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been 
presented. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal  service we provide, and if 
I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think  it was 
material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the complainant when my decision is published.
The banks customer here, and the party  eligible  to bring the complaint to us, is the limited company 
R. It isnt Mr R personally; nor is it the predecessor company that was run by his parents. Mr Rs role, 
assisted by Mr T, is to represent the company  in bringing  the complaint,  in his capacity as its director. 
What that means is that I couldnt award  him any compensation  for personal stress and/or 
inconvenience he may feel hes been  caused. . 
Mr T is seeking a finding  on whether BOS  has met its legal obligations to R. Im afraid  thats not our 
remit; my role as ombudsman  is to consider  whether theres been maladministration  or unfair  
treatment by BOS  in the provision of a financial service to R. If R is seeking a legal ruling, the proper 
place for that is a court. Thats not to say I wont consider relevant law, regulation where appropriate, 
along with whats deemed good practice.  But its worth pointing out that large scale commercial  
lending of the type engaged in here is not subject  to regulation.
Turing now to the case itself, it seems to me that its a simpler complaint than its been made to look. 
For reasons that Im not able to look into, BOS considered it was owed money from its dealings with 
the predecessor company run by Mr Rs parents, and was looking to R (at the time run by Mr R and 
his father, who later died) to repay it. Then, in October 2012, when re-negotiating  with R, BOS 
increased the exit fee. That was, in my view, a legitimate commercial decision that I should not be 
Ref: DRN73197904interfering with. Rather, it was for the bank and R to negotiate between  them,  and if the proposed 
terms didnt suit R, it was for R to see if better terms were available  elsewhere. 
Its not my role to fetter BOSs right to exercise  its commercial discretion and judgement, either 
retrospectively, now or in future. I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats what 
Ive done.
The essence  of this complaint isnt, in my view,  about unfair  treatment,  maladministration  or 
regulatory breaches (its worth  observing again that these arent regulated agreements).  Its about the 
two parties each having legitimate commercial objectives that ultimately conflict with each other. Its 
not the role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service to decide whose business objectives  take priority, 
and when all of the noise around the edges is removed, thats what this dispute is about.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 13 January 2019 or sooner if both parties confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party need 
repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7319790