K820x#14complaint
Mr Es representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays  Bank UK PLC. 
The CMC says the recommended investment amount and established attitude to risk was 
too much  for a first-time inexperienced  investor.  
background
In 1997, Mr E was advised to invest £13,000,  of which £6,000  was invested in a Personal 
Equity Plan (PEP) and £7,000 in a taxable account.
In 2003, the investment was surrendered and Mr E received £12,405 back. Of this amount, 
£5,739 came from the PEP and £6,666  from the taxable account.  
Barclays rejected the complaint. In summary it said:
The recommendation was suitable for Mr E and met his objective. 
It was recorded  he was:
o27 years  of age, in good  health, single with no financial dependents.
oHe was employed with an annual income of £20,000. 
oHe had a net disposable income of £1,000  and he regularly saved £500.
oHe had no planned expenditure and was looking to invest  £13,000. 
Overall a medium to long term investment with a medium  risk was suitable. 
He had capacity  to build on his savings,  given his high net disposable income.
Mr E would have been given the brochure detailing the key risks involved. 
Because it failed  to deliver the level of service it aimed to achieve  for the complaint 
handling, it offered  £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  Mr E 
was in a position to take a risk and specifically chose a medium  risk. Despite buying a 
property in 1999 and getting  married in 2000,  Mr E maintained his investment.  He was 
earning enough to make up for any losses. 
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It maintained  Mr E was advised  to take too much risk, not that he wasnt in a 
position to take any risk. In other  words, Mr E was in a position to take a risk but lower  than 
what was advised.  
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76376832Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what the CMC says, Im not persuaded the advice was unreasonable. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about  this matter.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr E wont take the fact my findings  focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr E and Barclays, and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems to me that Mr E was willing  to take a 
greater risk (than just a low risk) in pursuit of a greater  return.  And given his age, income and 
lack of outstanding financial liabilities,  he was in a reasonably good position to do so. 
I understand that just because an investor  can afford to lose money,  doesnt  of itself make  
the investment  automatically suitable.  Its just one of a number of factors I have to consider. 
But Im persuaded  that Mr E was in a good position  to take more than just a low risk with that 
portion of his money. And had a reasonable net disposable income to offset any losses  that 
he might  incur at this stage in his life. And just because he was a first-time  inexperienced  
investor doesnt mean that he wasnt entitled  to take a greater risk given thats what he 
appears to have wanted at the time.     
Im satisfied he had no immediate plans for that portion  of his money. I note it remained 
invested even  though  he went on to buy a property and get married a few years later. Im 
also mindful that his earning capacity would have also increased in time.  So, in this instance, 
on balance, Im unable  to say the recommendation was unsuitable.
I appreciate Mr E will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Dara Islam 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7637683