K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Allianz  Insurance 
Plc, as the insurer, have  accepted responsibility  for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to Allianz in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs C took out a personal reserve account  in 1999, which was a revolving credit  facility 
similar to an overdraft. She also took out PPI to protect her account. It covered Mrs C in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a sample of the credit agreement Mrs C wouldve filled out. I can see it had a 
section for PPI, which briefly explained what is was for and what  it cost. Then there  was an 
option to take it, or Mrs C couldve chosen  not to take it if she didnt want it. In order  to get 
PPI, Mrs C wouldve had to actively choose it. And it doesnt look like the paperwork 
presented the policy as anything other  than an optional extra. So I think  Mrs C wouldve 
been aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Mrs C wasnt given personalised advice to take PPI, so the seller  didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. They did have to give Mrs C enough information to decide  if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information Mrs C was given  about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. She only had limited 
work benefits, whereas the PPI covered her for far longer  and paid out on top. And it meant 
she could protect her savings and use them  for other things. Further,  the account  was 
Mrs Cs sole responsibility, and the PPI meant she wouldnt have to rely on anyone else to 
pay it. So the policy would have been  useful for Mrs C if something went wrong.  And so 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs C had other PPI policies that were mis-sold. But we look at 
each case on its own merits. For instance,  different policies  for different types of credit 
wouldve worked in different  ways, and wouldve been sold in different ways at different  
times. In this case, I dont think that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN73674732my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367473