K822xcomplaint
Mrs R is seeking to recover £5,070 from HSBC UK Bank Plc, which  was stolen from her
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs R unwittingly authorised  the payment 
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from
the payee bank.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
18 November 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to uphold this
complaint for the following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mrs R authorised the scam payments of £5,070 and 
£5,800. She was duped by the scammer  into making the payments online.  Mrs R had 
met the scammer on an online dating  website. He said he was an engineer,  living 
abroad. After  a couple of months,  the scammer  said he needed a loan so he could 
pay some  contractors  for a project he was working on. He sent Mrs R a contract for 
the work  via email.  Mrs R made  the first transfer. Then, in December 2017, the 
scammer told Mrs R hed sent her a consignment  of goods for when he returned  to 
the UK and asked  her to pay the couriers fees, which  she did, making the second 
transfer. Mrs R says the package never arrived and she started to receive  threats 
from the courier. This is when she contacted the police. She initially  focused  her 
efforts on the second payment, notifying  HSBC about this in February  2018,  as she 
was fearful for her life. But after speaking to victim support  in the months that 
followed, they encouraged her to contact  HSBC about the first payment. She did this 
in June 2018.
2.It should be noted that Mrs R had been  through a considerable amount in the years 
prior to the scam. She lost her mum in 2014  and was made  redundant in 2016, both 
of which  were particularly traumatic experiences.  Her daughter had also left for 
university. This culminated in her entering counselling in early  2017. Shes explained  
that the internet dating was meant  to help her find her own life again, having  been so 
used to looking after her mum and daughter up to that point. So, Mrs R was in a 
particularly vulnerable state  when  the scam took place. 
3.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mrs R was the victim of 
a sophisticated  scam.  She used her security credentials to request the payments. So, 
although she was tricked into making the payments, under the Payment Services  
Regulations, Mrs R is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance.
4.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN73606742Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
5.Having reviewed Mrs Rs account  statements for the six months  prior to the first
payment, I think the £5,070 payment was unusual. Mrs R didnt make  large  transfers 
out of her account.  The account was mostly used to pay regular bills via Direct Debit  
and Standing Order.  And she rarely, if ever, set up a new payee. So, when  taken 
altogether, Im satisfied  there were signs Mrs R could be at risk of fraud.
6.It follows that I wouldve then expected  HSBC  to contact Mrs R and satisfy 
themselves she wasnt at risk of any financial harm.  HSBC  has said that, even if it 
had made contact with Mrs R and questioned the payment, it wouldnt have made a 
difference. It says that Mrs R was making a payment  to a person she knew  and 
trusted. And it pointed to the fact she didnt report the payment as a scam until six 
months later. I agree Mrs R trusted  this person, but Im but Im not persuaded that 
had she been  warned  of the potential for a scam, she wouldve  ignored this.
7.Mrs R has explained she met this person online and he was living  abroad. Hed 
asked Mrs R to send  him the £5,070  as a loan, so he could pay local contractors for 
a project he was working on. Had HSBC contacted Mrs R and asked her some 
questions around the payment, Im satisfied the purpose of the payment wouldve 
come to light. HSBC is the expert and should be alive to these  types of scams. I 
think the reason  for the payment  was sufficiently unusual  especially when coupled  
with the fact the person  said they were living abroad   to have raised a red flag for 
this type of scam. Had further, and more  sensitive probing taken place, it seems 
likely HSBC couldve discovered that Mrs R met the person online and had never 
met him face to face. At that point, I think HSBC couldve and shouldve given a 
strong warning that it was likely a scam.
8.Mrs R had only been speaking to the person for a couple  of months prior to him 
asking for money, and she was particularly vulnerable at that point in her life. So, 
whilst HSBC has said she knew and trusted this person, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mrs R wouldve ignored  such a stark warning  from her bank. This is especially 
the case if HSBC had tailored its warning to the situation, explaining how these types 
of scams work.
9.Mrs R did wait seven months before reporting  the £5,070 payment as a scam. 
However, this was due to her focusing  her efforts on the second  payment, which  she 
was receiving threats about. Mrs R was yet to realise that the person shed met 
online was involved  we have to remember she was already vulnerable prior to the 
scam, and this situation made things worse.  She believed the couriers  were the ones 
Ref: DRN73606743threatening her. It was victim support  pointing  out that the £5,070 payment was also 
likely a scam  given shed never actually met this man and he was asking her for 
money - that prompted her to report it to HSBC. I have no reason to doubt  that had 
HSBC provided a similar warning prior to her making the first payment in November 
2017, that she wouldnt have taken this on board  and not gone ahead  with the 
payment. It follows that the second  payment would also have been prevented.
10.In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether  
the bank also exercised  enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the payee  bank  before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers.
11.Ive also considered whether Mrs R should  bear some responsibility by way of
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of
authorising the payment, she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate
what she was doing or the consequences of her actions. She trusted this man and 
hed sent her a contract for the work he was supposedly involved in. Im therefore 
satisfied there was no contributory  negligence on this occasion, she was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional 
in financial matters; Mrs R was a vulnerable  layperson.
12.In the circumstances  Im satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mrs 
R for the first payment  of £5,070,  together  with interest to compensate  her for being 
deprived of the money she lost. The investigator  concluded in her view that HSBC 
was able to recover  the second payment and so no further action was needed in 
regard to that payment. However, it is my understanding that only £2,309.85 of the 
£5,800 was recovered. Therefore,  I think HSBC  should also refund the difference  of 
£3,490.15, along  with interest. Mrs R has explained that in September 2017 shed 
began the process of consolidating all her savings  into her HSBC  savings account  
this is evidenced  on her statement. So, I think interest should be paid at the rate of 
that account, as Im satisfied this is where the money wouldve been transferred to 
had she not paid the scammer.
13.HSBC has already  paid £75 for the distress  and inconvenience Mrs R has suffered. 
But I think it is appropriate to make an additional award of £300 for this. In reaching 
that conclusion  Im mindful  that her loss and upset was ultimately caused by the 
callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised transaction,  but HSBC  could 
ultimately have prevented the payments. When taking into account what Mrs R went  
through in respect  of the second payment, including receiving  threats, this amount 
feels fairer.
So, subject to any further representations from Mrs R or HSBC I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint.
Both Mrs R and HSBC responded to my provisional decision agreeing with the outcome. 
HSBC commented  that it didnt  agree with everything Id said in my provisional decision,  but 
as a gesture and without any admittance of liability, it would agree to the settlement. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73606744As Mrs R and HSBC have agreed with my provisional decision, my findings on this 
complaint havent  changed.
It follows that I uphold  Mrs Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint about HSBC  UK Bank  Plc and require  it to:
Pay Mrs R £8,560.15  within 28 days of receiving notification  of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the HSBC  savings account rate at the time, from the 
date of loss to the date of refund.
Pay Mrs R £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7360674