K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined a claim she made 
for repairs under her Breakdown Repair  Cover (BRC) policy. 
background
Ms M called for assistance under her BRC policy in March 2018. She told Acromas  shed 
broken down and her ignition key had broken. A patrolman attended and removed the 
broken key. He was able to start Ms Ms car with a spare key. 
Ms M said she discussed with the patrolman  the reason why shed stopped her car. She said 
the key breaking  in the ignition was a secondary  cause. Ms M said she pulled over as there  
was a warning light on the dashboard. She ran an errand and when she returned to the car, 
she tried to switch the engine on and wanted  to see if the light was still on. She wasnt able 
to turn the engine on  and broke the ignition key while trying. 
Ms M called for assistance a number  of times  between March  2018 and May 2018. Her car 
has been inspected  by a garage  and then a dealership garage.  
Its since been established that Ms M incorrectly called this light a battery  warning light  
which she says neither Acromas, the patrolmen, or a garage corrected her on. As she isnt a 
mechanic, she said she simply described the light as it looked  like a battery symbol. But a 
dealership garage  subsequently told her the warning light she was describing was in fact a 
Malfunction Indicator  Light (MIL). This is separate to a battery warning light for her car. 
Ms M says this is significant because in April 2018 a garage identified  faults on Ms Ms car: 
two of which she believes caused the MIL to go on when she first broke  down in March 
2018. The garage replaced  the EGR valve and thermostat on Ms Ms car. But Acromas  
declined her claim because it said the battery warning light was on  and the garage  didnt  
find a fault with the battery. Ms M believes Acromas  hasnt  correctly understood her claim. 
Ms M wants Acromas to cover the costs  of the repairs to the EGR valve and thermostat.  And 
she wants Acromas  to cover the costs  of the diagnostic  report  from both the garage and the 
dealership garage. She said she didnt  ask for her car to be looked at by the dealership 
garage. This was something Acromas asked for. 
Our investigator thought Acromas had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. She said 
that neither the garage or dealership garage have  confirmed  that the EGR valve and 
thermostat issues would  have prevented  Ms Ms car from starting.  And so it was reasonable 
of Acromas not to cover the costs  for those repairs as they didnt cause Ms M to break  down.
In May 2018  Acromas  replaced the battery in Ms Ms car following a further breakdown. The 
investigator thought  Acromas had correctly dealt with Ms Ms request for assistance. 
Ms M remains  unhappy, so shed  like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73693962I can see that dealing  with this complaint since April 2018 has caused  Ms M distress  and 
frustration. I know Ms M will be disappointed,  but overall I think  Acromas has dealt with 
Ms Ms claims for assistance reasonably  based  on the information available  to me. 
Ms Ms policy has exclusions. This isnt unusual for a breakdown policy as it isnt designed to 
provide cover in the same way as a warranty or service plan policy  might. The policy  
highlights the following:
Warning lights: Please  be aware  that if a warning light, which  is linked to an insured 
part, is illuminated it does  not necessarily mean that the repair or replacement  of the 
relevant insured part is required and/or will be paid for under Your  (agent) 
Breakdown Repair  Cover policy.
Ms M said she discussed with the patrolman  that the issue  with her car in March 2018 was 
that it wasnt running correctly. She accepts she didnt discuss this in the same detail when 
she called  Acromas for assistance. Ms M says she feels Acromas  expected  her as a 
layperson to correctly diagnose the cause of the breakdown. She didnt know  why her car 
wouldnt start. She thought it made sense to discuss this with the patrolman  who was a 
mechanic when he arrived. 
Acromas has provided a copy of the patrolmans report dated 10 March  2018. It says:
Removed broken key blade from ignition, used spare  key to start it, all ok.
Ms M says she showed the warning light to the patrolman. But because he was able to start 
her car, he told her it was nothing to worry about  and she was safe to drive. Ms M said the 
light looked like a battery  so this is how she described it. Retrospectively  Ms M believes 
the patrolman failed to identify that the light wasnt related to the battery  which  she 
reasonably expected him to do as a mechanic.
Ms M broke  down again a month later. When she called Acromas,  she said she described 
the issue as the same  as before. The patrolmans report reads:
started your vehicle, tested your battery, charging  system  and tested for electrical 
discharge. Found on tests  boot open  causing  5+ amp draw, shut 0.3 amps  (still too 
high). Battery Insecure, 0,2volt drop on battery  main  live, Ignition barrel difficult to 
use, Engine management warning light on, Flat tyre Indicator light on, fuel level light 
illuminated. Requires further checks and repairs  at garage.
The cause of the discharged battery could  not be identified at the roadside  and will 
need investigating. Drive / run your vehicle for at least 30 minutes or connect a 
battery charger to fully charge your battery.
On 13 April 2018 Ms M brought her car to a garage for a diagnostic  test. On 23 April 2018 
the garage described the following faults  with Ms Ms car: overheating, going into limp mode  
and a problem  with an anti-braking sensor. It replaced the EGR valve  and thermostat. The 
garage identified  a further fault code which it couldnt fix. So after discussion with Acromas, 
Ms Ms car was taken to a dealership garage  and they fixed the fault.  Ms M wanted Acromas 
to cover these repairs costs as she said these  were the cause of the breakdown.
Ref: DRN73693963But Acromas  told Ms M that the garages  were unable to conclude that the EGR and 
thermostat issues caused the initial breakdown. And that when the EGR valve was replaced, 
it didnt fix the fault as a new error  code  came up. 
When a dealership garage  carried  out a diagnostic report, it was inconclusive  as it said:  No 
management faults returned in management systems  so Acromas said there  wasnt 
enough to show  the faults caused  a breakdown.
Ms M disagrees.  She says the garage that replaced the EGR valve  said a further error 
message was triggered which its equipment  was unable  to investigate. So Acromas  asked  
the garage to arrange for Ms Ms car to be taken to a dealership garage for further diagnostic 
testing. Ms M says the dealership garage  was able to resolve the issue  as it required an 
adjustment to the EGR valve and there  were  no further problems with the valve after that. 
Ms M believes  this therefore  shows that the EGR valve was the cause of the MIL and the 
original cause of the breakdown. 
Ms Ms car broke down again  on 17 May 2018. A patrolman found the battery  was dead and 
replaced it. This repair was covered under Ms Ms policy. 
Ms M says the battery warning light didnt  come on before. She believes this was a new 
issue and the repairs to the EGR valve and thermostat should  be covered by Acromas  from 
when she broke down in March and April 2018. 
Acromas said that if the dealership garage report concluded that the faults with the EGR 
valve and thermostat caused the breakdown of Ms Ms car, it would cover the repair costs 
and the costs of the diagnostic report. However, the dealership garage  report  doesnt 
conclude this. I appreciate  that Ms M says this is because the repairs  had by then been  
carried out. But the dealership garage  report said that the engine management light (MIL)  
would have come  on for either a fault with the EGR  valve or the battery. So I dont think  
either garage has provided  enough  to show that faults with the EGR valve and thermostat 
caused Ms Ms car to break down. 
Ive taken on board Ms Ms view that the battery warning light didnt come in on her car. But 
as Ms Ms car started  in previous callouts  after the patrolman recharged the battery  with no 
battery warning light - I dont  think this makes a difference. And Ive considered  the 
comments made by the dealership garage  that the MIL would have come on for a battery 
issue. So I think on balance its more likely that the cause of the breakdown was due to the 
battery. This means  I think  the diagnostic reports and repairs needed for the EGR valve and 
thermostat arent costs Acromas should  cover.
I understand Ms M will be disappointed with my decision. But as Acromas has covered the 
costs to replace  the battery in May 2018, I think its acted reasonably and in line with the 
policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2019.
Ref: DRN73693964Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7369396