K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that they were  asked to provide personal information to Northern 
Bank Limited  t/a Danske  Bank. Theyre also unhappy with the way in which Danske  
communicated with them and feel the records held by Danske are inaccurate  and 
misleading. 
background
Around June 2018 Danske wrote  to Mr S to let him know about  new government legislation  
which had been  introduced in order to protect consumers as well as prevent and detect 
financial crime. In this letter Danske  also advised Mr S theyd be in touch  with him soon for 
some further  information. 
Danske then proceeded to try to contact  and obtain  the required information from Mr S by 
both letter and phone. As I understand Danske attempted to call Mr S even after hed 
expressed a preference for future  communications to be in writing. 
Eventually Danske  wrote  to Mr S around October  2018 to explain they needed certain  
information by a set date,  otherwise his account may be blocked. 
Mr S logged a complaint.  Danske apologised for not getting in touch with him via writing as 
requested. Danske credited Mr Ss account  with £100 in recognition  of their customer  
service failings. Danske  did however then decide that, due to what  they considered to be a 
breakdown in their business banking relationship, they gave notice of closing Mr and Mrs Ss 
accounts. 
Mr and Mrs S remain dissatisfied with how Danske has handled this matter. And also with 
some of the comments within contact notes  held by Danske from their dealings with Mr S.
An investigator has already looked  at this complaint. Overall  he felt Danske had made errors 
in how theyd communicated with Mr and Mrs S. He acknowledged that theyd asked to not 
be contacted by telephone. But even after this, Danske still attempted to call. The 
investigator however  felt the £100  already  credited to the account of Mr S by Danske was 
fair compensation to recognise the customer service errors.  The investigator also felt that 
Danske had been entitled to close Mr and Mrs S s accounts when they did, in light of the 
events which  had led up to that point and the account terms and conditions.
As Mr and Mrs S are still unhappy, the matter  has now been passed to me to look at. I note 
they feel that much of the information  Danske was requesting was already available within 
the banks records.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This decision will focus on what  I think  are 
the key issues  in dispute. 
Im satisfied that Danske  did try to make contact  by telephone, even after Mr S had made it 
clear that he didnt want this. Ive no doubt  this was upsetting for him, but I do however  think  
the £100 already credited  to Mr Ss account  is fair recognition  of this customer service error. 
Ref: DRN70462172Despite this error, I accept that Danske was under certain obligations. New government 
legislation came into force which meant Danske set up a dedicated team to liaise  with and 
complete enhanced due diligence  with customers to meet  their legal obligations.  Despite 
being existing  customers, Danske did require  further information from Mr S. I can see they 
advised Mr S of what information they needed  and why they needed the information.  I note 
there has been mention of a meeting which took place  around November 2018. Irrespective 
of this meeting,  its clear  Danske was seeking  further contact with Mr S and required 
information from him. Danske has explained  that the local branch manager was indeed  
unaware of the questions  that needed  to be answered, as this fell to the remit of the 
customer protection team. Despite offering to refer Mr S to this team,  this offer was 
apparently refused by Mr S. From  the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Danske gave clear 
notice of what may happen  if they didnt receive this information within  the required 
timeframe. 
I note Mr and Mrs S are unhappy  with how Danske has recorded certain information about 
them on their internal records. Im afraid I dont think Danske has done  anything wrong with 
the information theyve recorded and Im satisfied such contact notes are for their internal 
records. 
Danske felt there had been a breakdown in their business banking relationship with Mr and 
Mrs S. And I think Danske was entitled  to give notice of account closures. I believe they are 
within their right to do this under the account  terms and conditions.  Theres  nothing  to 
suggest they didnt follow their procedures correctly.
I appreciate this decision is likely to come as a great  disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. But 
overall Im afraid Im unable to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 November 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7046217