K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc registered  a default on her credit file despite her 
making agreed repayments on her overdraft.
background
Miss T says she made an agreement with Santander to repay  her overdraft. She says she 
made the monthly repayments but Santander registered a default on her credit file. Miss T 
says that was unfair and would like Santander to remove it.
Santander says it agreed  a two month  plan with Miss T in February 2018 but told her that 
she needed to call it again before it expired. Santander says Miss T didnt call it back despite 
a number of letters it sent her asking her to do so. So it says it correctly registered a default.
Miss T brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think  Santander had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  He thought Santander had agreed previous plans with Miss T that 
she didnt keep to and had acted positively  and sympathetically in the past by refunding  
charges. The adjudicator  thought Santander  had made clear  that the plan was for two 
months and that Miss T needed  to call it back to agree a new plan.
Miss T doesnt accept  that view and says it was unfair to register a default as she was still 
making agreed repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Miss T will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at Santanders notes  and can see that it previously agreed repayment  plans with 
Miss T in 2017 that were  broken. Ive also listened  to the call between the parties in 
February 2018 in which  a new plan was agreed. Im satisfied that during that call Santander 
told Miss T the plan was only for two months and that she must call it back  before the plan 
ended in order to arrange a new plan.  Im also satisfied that it was explained that a default 
could be registered  if a new plan wasnt agreed and what  that meant. 
I appreciate Miss T says she kept making  the repayments. But I think she should have 
known that she needed to contact  Santander to arrange a new plan. I can also see that 
Santander wrote to Miss T on about four or five occasions asking her to call it in order to 
arrange a new repayment plan. And that it told her the account  would  default  if she didnt or 
if she didnt immediately repay the money  she owed. So I dont think  Santander made  a 
mistake by registering a default  in circumstances where Miss T didnt contact it to arrange a 
new plan.
Banks and building societies should treat its customers positively and sympathetically where 
they experience  financial  difficulties. Im satisfied Santander has acted in such  a way here.  I 
can see that its refunded  charges and agreed  repayment plans with Miss T.
Overall as Im satisfied Santander hasnt made  a mistake or acted unfairly  I cant order  it to 
remove the default from Miss Ts credit file.
Ref: DRN77861852my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7786185