K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has declined her claim on her 
mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mrs S had mobile phone  insurance through her bank account and had registered two 
phones on the policy.
When Mrs S called to claim following the theft of one of the phones, Assurant declined the 
claim as she couldnt  provide proof  she owned  the phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
The terms of Mrs Ss policy  say that, to benefit from the cover,  the mobile phone must be 
owned by her. It also says that proof of ownership may be required in the event of a claim 
and that, if she doesnt  have proof of ownership,  Assurant may decline her claim.
As Mrs S has highlighted,  the policy also says the phone can be the responsibility of her, her 
partner or a dependent child. But it only says this after it says the phone must  be owned by 
Mrs S. So I think  it still means the phone  must  be owned by her, even  if it is the responsibility 
of her partner or a dependent  child.
And I think this is reasonable as, in law, a policyholder must have an insurable interest in 
any property to be insured  and policies like this will usually only cover items that belong  to 
the policyholder.
Mrs S has said that her daughter used the phone. And she says that her husband paid for 
the phone, so the receipt has his name  on it, but that she and her husband both pay for 
family items. Shes also sent us evidence that all of the familys phones are paid for together.
I recognise that families  will often have shared finances and may make  gifts between them. 
And I appreciate that this is likely what happened  here and that Mrs S didnt think it would 
matter who had actually  paid for the phone, as it was bought  by a member  of the family, for 
the family.
But the phone was bought  by Mrs Ss husband,  the phone contract  was in Mrs Ss 
husbands name and the phone appears to have been used by Mrs Ss daughter. So I dont 
think I can reasonably say that the phone belonged to Mrs S.
As I dont think the phone belonged to Mrs S, I think Assurant has acted reasonably  in 
declining her claim.
Ref: DRN76644182my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664418