K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (the bank) was wrong not to pursue a 
chargeback claim with an online gambling company  for a large bet that Mr O says he didnt 
authorise. 
background
Mr O accepts hed placed three smaller bets with the company but not the much larger one 
which is the subject  of this complaint.
The bank said the chargeback scheme didnt cover  betting transactions,  but Mr O should  
approach the betting company to seek confirmation he was due a refund or his account had 
been hacked. The company didnt provide that confirmation. 
Mr O told the bank  hed looked into how the chargeback scheme worked, and it did indeed  
cover gambling transactions. He said he hadnt  authorised the disputed transaction. He said 
around that time hed reported  his credit card as lost or stolen to the bank, and that the bank 
had marked Mr Os account  as blocked because of suspicious activity. He also said the 
gambling company  appeared  not to have adequate safeguards against fraudulent 
transactions. 
Mr O offered  no explanation, apart from possible hacking of his account, for how the 
disputed transaction  could  have  taken place if it hadnt been authorised by him. Nor did Mr O 
explain what  benefit the fraud  could bring to a fraudster, when the proceeds of any 
successful bet would have been  credited  to Mr O. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint. He said the core issue  was whether Mr O 
had authorised the disputed transaction. Having considered all the available  evidence, 
including the evidence hed asked for and received from the gambling company,  the 
investigator concluded Mr O had indeed authorised the transaction. 
In particular, having noted among other things that the payment was made via the same  
device and IP address as on previous occasions , he concluded (a) the payment from Mr Os 
account with the bank  had been  duly authenticated and (b) Mr O had consented to and 
authorised the payment. 
Mr O didnt accept the investigators  conclusions and replied twice making various  points, 
which the investigator responded to before referring  the complaint on to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I too have 
decided his complaint doesnt succeed.  Theres little Id wish to add to what  the investigator 
has already said. 
The investigator was right to concentrate on the question whether Mr O in all probability  
authorised the disputed  transaction. I too think the evidence  points  to Mr O having  done so, 
for the reasons the investigator gave. 
Ref: DRN79702822Mr O has referred  to other issues which he argues should give him the benefit  of the doubt  
for example what he sees as the deficient security of the gambling companys website or the 
bank having flagged/blocked his account  for suspicious  activity around the time of the 
disputed transaction  (which isnt supported by the evidence Ive seen). 
But these  are secondary issues, if, as I think he did, Mr O authorised the transaction.  If he 
did so, the other issues are irrelevant. 
As Ive concluded Mr O authorised the disputed  transaction, it follows  I dont think  Mr O can 
be any worse  off for the bank not having  raised a possible  chargeback  with the gambling  
company. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7970282