K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, wont pay him the 
money that hes claimed from it in connection with some  building  works. 
background
Mr C used his Barclaycard in September 2018 to pay £2,200 to a builder that he says hed 
hired for some repair work and to extend  his garage. He says that hes paid the builder in full 
but the work  hasnt been completed and the builder isnt responding to him. Hes provided a 
report about the work. 
He made  a claim to Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 and says 
that he would like the money  that he paid to the builder and the cost of the report to be 
refunded to him and that he should  also receive the cost of completing the work which he 
estimates to be £3,100.  It said that it needed a copy of the original invoice or contract from 
the builder for the work and that the text messages that Mr C had provided werent enough  
to verify what had been agreed.  It paid Mr C £25 compensation because it had provided  
incorrect information to him when  it said that it would accept the text messages to prove  his 
dispute. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was not 
persuaded there was enough evidence to determine if there had been  a breach of contract  
so she was unable  to proceed  with a section 75 claim. She concluded that she was unable 
to recommend that Barclaycard  do anything further.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  Barclaycard, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the builder 
and that Barclaycards response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able 
to do that.
Theres no dispute that Mr C used his Barclaycard to pay £2,200 to the builder  in September  
2018. But hes not been able to provide evidence of a contact or other agreement with the 
builder to show what had been agreed  with it. Hes provided some  text messages which 
refer to some building works and payments and hes provided a hand written invoice for a 
builders time in connection with the works. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence that Mr C has provided is enough to show  what building 
works he had agreed with the builder and how much he would be paying  for it. And without  
evidence to show what had been agreed, Im unable to consider whether or not there has 
been a breach of contract by the builder  in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN74042982Barclaycard has paid £25 compensation to Mr C because he was incorrectly told that it 
would accept the text messages to prove his dispute. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I consider that Barclaycards response to Mr Cs claim 
under section 75 was fair and reasonable on the basis  of the evidence that hed provided to 
it. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay to Mr C any of the 
money that hes claimed from it  or to take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404298