K822xcomplaint
Mr P is unhappy that he has been  charged for damage to two tyres following the handback 
of a car financed by Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
background 
In October  2015 Mr P obtained a new car under a two year hire purchase  agreement with 
VWFS. In September  2017, and in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement  Mr P 
handed the car back to VWFS.
VWFS arranged  for the car to be inspected for any damage. A report was prepared and 
photographs taken  of the car. Mr P was subsequently invoiced for damage to the car 
amounting to £566.56. This included the cost of repairs  to the two front tyres  which  each had 
a gouge on the side wall.
Mr P disagreed that he should be charged  for the tyres. He said the damage  arose  from fair 
wear and tear and was caused  by potholes.  He also said the tyres  were nearing their legal  
limit and had enquired  approximately  four weeks before handing the car back  about getting  
them replaced. Hed been told they didnt  yet need  replacing.
VWFS disagreed that the charges were unfair and so Mr P complained to this service.  
VWFS reviewed  the charges and agreed  to reduce the invoice for the damage to £363.16 
due to the photographs  not being  clear  and as a gesture  of goodwill. The cost of the damage 
to the tyres remained due.
Our adjudicator said that he thought the charges made by VWFS were in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement and that the damage to the two tyres was outside  fair wear 
and tear.
The investigator said that under the agreement Mr P was required to keep the car in good 
condition. VWFS had referred to the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines which are used by the industry  as setting the standard as to whether 
damage was from fair wear and tear or not. These guidelines stated that damage to the 
sidewalls or tread was not acceptable.
 
The investigator said that he thought VWFS had acted reasonably  in removing the cost of 
repairs where the photographs hadnt  been clear  about the damage. But as the damage  to 
the tyres  was visible in the photographs and unacceptable under  the guidelines then it was 
fair VWFS continued to invoice Mr P for these items.
Mr P disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. He said that the potholes  in the road had 
caused the damage and that it was caused  by normal  usage  of the car. He also said that as 
the tyres  were near the end of their life VWFS wouldve  had to change them to sell the car 
on in any event. It wasnt fair he bore the cost of that.   
As the parties cant  agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71856152Mr P has had the car for two years so in that time its inevitable that it wont be in the same 
condition as when  he first acquired it. Under the agreement Mr P is required to take 
reasonable care of the car. If, on termination  of the agreement, the car has damage  which  
was considered to be beyond  fair wear and tear then VWFS may charge Mr P for it.
Ive seen a copy  of the photographs of the car and read the report. Mr P is only disputing  the 
damage to the tyres. The photographs of each of the tyres clearly show that there is a gouge 
in the wall of each of the tyres.  
As is the industry practice VWFS  referred to the BVRLA guideline  to assess  whether the 
damage to the tyres was acceptable or not. These  guidelines state that it isnt fair wear and 
tear for tyres  to have  this type of damage.
Mr P also says that the tyres wouldve needed to be changed anyway prior to sale as they 
were close  to the end of their life. But Ive seen  that the tread depth of each of the tyres  was 
above the legal limit. However to pass an MOT the tyres should  be free from cuts or defects 
which these werent. I cant reasonably say the tyres would still have required changing if 
they hadnt suffered the damage to their side walls.
Mr P says it was the condition of the road that resulted in the damage  so it isnt his fault.  But 
under the agreement the condition of the car is his responsibility. So although I appreciate  
that some  roads are in a poor state  and some pot holes cant be avoided  I dont  think  I can 
reasonably say that this removes Mr Ps liability for any damage to the cars tyres that isnt 
considered fair wear  and tear. 
So looking  at the evidence I cant reasonably say that VWFS has acted unfairly in invoicing 
Mr P for the damage to these two tyres. It used independent guidelines that are accepted by 
the industry to assess whether the damage  was acceptable  or not as fair wear and tear. And 
I dont accept Mr Ps two arguments about  why it would be unfair for him to be liable. I think 
its fair and reasonable for Mr P to be invoiced the amount of £363.16 by VWFS to reflect the 
damage recorded on the car when it was handed back. Im not requiring VWFS to make  any 
further deductions to that invoice.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im satisfied  that the final invoice sent to Mr P by Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited of £363.16 for the damage to the car noted  at handback was 
fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185615