K820x#14complaint
Mr C has brought a complaint in his capacity  as joint executor of the estate of Mrs M. He 
complains on behalf of the estate that Barclays Bank Plc allowed a payment to be made 
without authorisation  from both executors.  Mr D, the other joint executor of the estate,  has 
also consented to this complaint being  made.
background
In June 2018 Mr C discovered that Barclays had allowed money  to be transferred out of the 
account set up to administer the estate of Mrs M. There was a mandate in place on the 
account which required two signatures  to authorise a payment. The signatories were  Mr C 
and Mr D as joint executors of the estate. But the payment was made to the estates 
beneficiary without  Mr Cs knowledge.  
He complained to Barclays who acknowledged  they had made an error. They  said that the 
account was showing a single signatory was required to authorise payments. But they 
agreed with Mr C that a joint signatories mandate shouldve been in place.  They thought it 
had accidentally been left off the account  when  it was reopened after falling dormant 
previously. They apologised  and offered Mr C £250  compensation. But they noted that the 
funds had been paid out to the correct  recipient, the beneficiary of the estate.  
Mr C doesnt think Barclays have done enough. He wants them  to reimburse  the money that 
was transferred. 
Our adjudicator felt that, although Barclays had made an error, the estate itself hadnt  been 
inconvenienced as the money was transferred to the intended beneficiary. So they said 
Barclays didnt need to do anything further.
Mr C is still unhappy with Barclays  actions  and so the case  has been passed  to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further.  Ill explain why.
Barclays have agreed they made an error  allowing the funds  to be transferred without Mr Cs 
signature. Theyve explained that the staff who authorised the payment had acted  correctly  
in line with the instructions on the account  which stated that a signature was required from 
one of the executors. But they acknowledged  that these instructions were  wrong,  and that a 
joint signatories mandate should have been  in place requiring both executors to authorise 
any payments.
I wont consider the circumstances around  how this error occurred  any further as this is 
linked to a previous complaint that Mr C has accepted we are unable to look at. But I will 
consider the impact the error has had on the estate.
Ref: DRN76536732Mr C has told us that the funds were  transferred  two weeks earlier  than they should have 
been under  the instructions in Mrs Ms will. And hes upset the will has not been followed 
correctly. I appreciate this, but its not disputed  the funds were paid to the intended 
beneficiary. So I agree with our adjudicator, I cant see that the estate  has ultimately suffered 
any loss. Therefore I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Barclays  to refund the payment. And I 
can see they have  already  apologised for their mistake  in their final response letter to Mr C.
Barclays have offered Mr C £250  compensation for the impact  of their mistake  on him 
personally. As the complaint  has been brought by Mr C on behalf of the estate I am only able 
to consider what action  it is fair and reasonable to ask Barclays  to take in respect  of the 
estate. But I suggest,  if he has not already done so, Mr C lets Barclays  know if he would like 
to accept this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mr D, on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs M, to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2019.
Jenette Lynch  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7653673