K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) wont allow  him to reject a 
car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement (CSA) following the development of a 
fault with it shortly after he took delivery of it.
background
Mr Y entered into a CSA with Santander  on 22 April 2018 to acquire  a used car. He says 
that the car developed a fault soon after he took delivery of it. The car was about four years 
old, cost £17,750  and had an odometer reading  of a little over 43,000 miles.
On 14 May 2018, at a cost of £130, Mr Y obtained  a diagnostic report which  concluded that 
the EGR  valve was faulty.
On 17 May 2018 Mr Y logged a formal complaint with Santander. He told Santander that he 
was experiencing the following issues with the car:
it was entering limp mode
loss of power when  accelerating
engine management  light illuminated
EGR  valve  was faulty
And that the supplying dealership wasnt prepared to reimburse him the £130 he had paid for 
his 14 May 2018  diagnostic  report.
Mr Y told Santander that he wanted  any required repair to the car carried out by one of the 
manufacturers dealerships, rather than the supplying dealership. And if Santander  wasnt 
prepared to allow one of the manufacturers  dealerships to carry  out any required repair, he 
would like to reject the car.
On the advice of Santander Mr Y arranged for an independent inspection of the car to be 
carried out. This was undertaken on 1 June 2018.
The inspector concluded that although it couldnt replicate all the problems identified  by 
Mr Y, and reported to Santander, the engine  management light was indeed permanently  
illuminated indicating  a faulty EGR valve. And that on the balance  of probabilities such  a 
fault was present at the time Mr Y took delivery  of the car.
On 7 June 2018 Santander  issued Mr Y with a final response letter.  In this letter Santander  
said the supplying  dealership was prepared to investigate the fault with the EGR  valve and 
carry out any necessary  repair (at no cost to Mr Y). And that it itself was prepared to pay £50 
towards the cost of Mr Ys 14 May 2018 diagnostic report.
On 18 July 2018 Santander  confirmed  to our service  that it accepted a fault was identified 
with the car within 30 days of Mr Y taking delivery  of it. And although  it wasnt  prepared to 
have this fault repaired by one of the manufacturers  dealerships,  it was prepared to have 
this fault repaired  by the supplying dealership,  or one of the supplying  dealerships appointed 
agents.
Ref: DRN74337602On 12 November 2018 Mr Y confirmed  to our service that he either wanted any necessary  
repair carried out by one of the manufacturers  dealerships, not the supplying  dealership,  or 
to reject the car.
One of our investigators  put the above  to Santander.  But as Santander didnt respond within 
what the investigator believed was a reasonable period of time, he concluded that Mr Ys 
complaint should  be upheld  and that Santander  should:
end the agreement with nothing further  for Mr Y to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr Y
refund  the deposit paid by Mr Y together with interest on this sum at 8% simple  a 
year from the date of payment, to the date of settlement
return all payments made by Mr Y under the agreement less one
Mr Y responded to say that he accepted  the investigators conclusions.
Santander responded to say that the supplying dealership had confirmed that if the cost of 
repair was:
reasonable, it would allow one of the manufacturers dealerships  to carry out any 
necessary repair
unreasonable, allow rejection of the car
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2019. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The CSA is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this service can consider 
complaints relating to it. As the supplier of the car under the CSA,  Santander is responsible  
for a complaint about its quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place. Satisfactory  quality takes  into account the age and mileage  of the car. 
Having considered what both parties  had said and submitted, Im satisfied that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the time of supply, despite  its age and mileage. So what I need to 
decide in this case is what Santander should now have  to do to fairly compensate Mr Y.
Ref: DRN74337603This complaint is somewhat unusual in that Santander has now agreed to do what  Mr Y was 
seeking in May 2018, which is to have the car repaired by one of the manufacturers 
dealerships (or rejection  if this isnt economically  viable). But I dont think this now represents 
an appropriate outcome to this complaint. I say this because:
this offer was made some time after Mr Y first suggested that is what  he was seeking 
by way of a fair remedy
this offer was made some time after our investigator reiterated to Santander this is 
what Mr Y was seeking by way a fair remedy
this offer was made after our investigator proposed an alternative remedy,  a remedy  
which Mr Y accepted
I accept that Mr Y was (at least initially) open to a repair  being  carried out by one of the 
manufacturers dealerships in settlement  of his complaint. But Im also satisfied that Mr Y 
made it clear  to Santander that if it wasnt agreeable to his repair proposal he would like to 
reject the car as was his right under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015, something  that he made 
clear within 30 days of taking delivery of the car according to Santanders case/complaint  
log. 
While Santander didnt  necessarily have to accept Mr Ys initial  proposal regarding  the 
manner in which the repairs were to be completed   if it was unwilling to do this it could  have 
let him reject  the car as per his legal rights. Now things have gone  on for much  longer than 
they shouldve  and an attempt at repair, even  in line with Mr Ys original wishes  would not be 
fair and reasonable at this stage.
The investigator, in essence,  proposed that Mr Y should be able to reject the car. And taking 
everything into account, including what I say above,  I think  this is the fairest outcome to this 
complaint. So with this in mind I think Santander  should collect the car (at no cost to Mr Y), 
end the agreement (with Mr Y having  nothing  further  to pay) , refund Mr Y his deposit  
(together with interest) and remove the agreement  from Mr Ys credit  file.
I also find Mr Ys submission that he has had very little use of the car since taking delivery of 
it to be both plausible and persuasive.  So to compensate him for this Santander  should  
refund all payments  Mr Y made  against his agreement except the first one (together with 
interest). I also think that its only fair and reasonable, given the reasons why Mr Y felt the 
need to get a diagnostics  report  at a cost of £130,  that this sum be refunded to Mr Y 
(together with interest).
Mr Y responded to ask whether he should  be compensated for, beyond what  I suggested he 
should be compensated for, the:
missed service history [for the car] which affected [its] value   
costs he has incurred  in storing  the car after taking the decision  to submit a SORN to 
the authorities in respect of it, rather than taxing  it
costs of making alternative  travel arrangements whilst he has been without the car
loss of his insurance no claims bonus
Santander confirmed  it had received my provisional  decision  and that it would respond to it 
by the date I had set. However it didnt do so.
Ref: DRN74337604my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the additional points raised by Mr Y, but Im not persuaded these  are sufficient 
for me to award anything  more than I proposed he be awarded in my provisional decision.
Mr Y hasnt been prejudiced by a lack of service history because any affect  this might have 
on the value of the car is something  that Santander, by accepting the return of it, will bear.
Its my understanding that a no claims bonus can be transferred to another  car for up to two 
years after it was earned. So I cant see that Mr Y has lost this as a result of what Santander 
has done, or failed  to do, in respect of this complaint. Furthermore given  that insurance 
prices depend  on a number of things  and a no claims bonus can be lost or reduced for 
various reasons,  I dont  think it would be fair to ask Santander to pay for what, in essence,  is 
an unknown or uncertain sum.
I accept that Mr Y has incurred travel  costs whilst he was without  use of the car. But given I 
said Santander should refund all of the payments he made under the agreement (bar one),  
and Im now saying it must  do so, I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to direct 
Santander to pay these costs as well. For the same reasons, I dont  think  it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Santander to pay any storage costs  Mr Y might  have incurred, 
especially if he was able  at a cheaper cost  to tax the car and keep it on the road  rather 
than submitting a SORN.
Given what I say above in respect  of Mr Ys response to my provisional  decision, and 
Santanders lack of a response to the same,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and I now I confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
2.collect the car at no cost to Mr Y
3.refund  Mr Ys deposit
4.refund  all the monthly payments  made  by Mr Y under this agreement except the first 
one
5.refund  the £130 cost of the diagnostic report obtained by Mr Y
6.remove the finance agreement from Mr Ys credit file
Items 3, 4, and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest yearly from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN74337605HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much  tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019 .
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433760