K821x#15Complaint 
Mr W complains that Westerby  Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) allowed his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  to be invested  in unregulated high-risk  investments. 
He thinks Westerby should  not have allowed this to happen. 
Background
Westerby has been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation  of this 
complaint, and those  law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at various 
times. For simplicity,  I have referred  to Westerby throughout, whether the submissions came  
directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf. 
Westerbys relationship with Mr W began in July 2013 when it received his application for a 
SIPP. On the application  form, Mr Ws financial advisor was noted as Richard Fletcher  of 
Abana. Abana Unipessoal  Lda (Abana) is a financial  advisory firm based in Portugal.  At the 
relevant time Abana passported into the UK under  the Insurance  Mediation Directive  (IMD).  
This means  that during  those dates, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and permitted to 
carry out some regulated  activities in the UK. 
Mr W held preserved benefits  in an occupational pension scheme (OPS).  Acting on advice 
from Abana, Mr W transferred the cash value of those benefits into a SIPP with Westerby. 
Mr W says he knew  Abanas advisor  as an insurance man and in a conversation  with him 
had said he had a frozen pension,  at which point Abanas advisor said he should do 
something with the frozen pension and that the advisor could  help. 
A SIPP application form was signed on 22 July 2013. Section 9 of the application asked the 
question Do you have a financial  advisor? This was answered yes and the details of 
Richard Fletcher of Abana were added. It was also instructed that initial  commission of 5% of 
the transferred  value  should be paid to Richard  Fletcher. 
An application form for an investment platform called  E-Portfolio  solutions,  distributed in the 
UK by a business  called  Asset Management  International,  was also completed.  This 
recorded the financial advisor as being  Abana. Mr Fletcher, in his capacity as a financial 
adviser of Abana, signed a declaration  on this application on 22 July 2013. The application  
was signed by Mr W on the same date.  The form was signed by Westerby,  as trustees of Mr 
Ws SIPP,  on 30 July 2013.
Around £108,000 was transferred to Mr Ws SIPP from his OPS.  Of this around £101,000 
was transferred to the E-Portfolio platform. 
Initially, some of the money  placed on the E-Portfolio platform  was invested in the Kijani 
Commodity Fund, which was at the time based  in Mauritius  (later based in the Cayman 
Islands), and some  in the Swiss Asset  Micro Assist Income Fund  (SAMAIF), based in 
Mauritius. And the remainder of the money  was held as cash or invested in a money market 
fund. It appears that at a later stage  Mr W became an investor  in something called the TCA 
Global Credit Fund. On this point, in its submissions to us dated  6 June 2016, Westerby  
said: 
The funds were later transferred into a "Special Purpose Vehicle" by EPS [E-
Portfolio] on the direction  of the adviser, the EPS Managed Portfolio. This included 
an element of the TCA Global Credit Fund.
Ref: DRN77704182And in its final response letter, Westerby quoted information given to Mr W by it in October 
2015 about the funds  he had invested in, which included the TCA Global Credit Fund:
Kijani - suspended,  in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear  as to 
what will come  back (as per PwC)
SAMAIF - suspended,  in discussions with regulators. No timescale  for resolution.
TCA Global - not suspended to our knowledge, but awaiting completion of takeover  
of EPS before withdrawals can be made. No timescale.
IMMF  [the cash fund]  - Suspended by virtue  of Belvedere's [the business  that 
ultimately provided the E-Portfolio  platform]  suspension. Struggling  to get 
information. No timescale.
So its not clear  when Mr W became an investor in the TCA Global Credit Fund but it seems 
he did so at some point prior to October 2015.  
On 11 November 2014 Westerby wrote to Mr W about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds  would, following a Policy  Statement from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might  be higher  risk than Mr W originally considered.  Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission had issued enforcement orders  
against both the Kijani  and the SAMAIF  funds. 
Westerby strongly urged  Mr W to contact his regulated financial advisor, Abana,  and 
asked him to confirm  whether he wanted  to continue to hold the investments  or for Westerby  
to attempt to sell them. Mr W confirmed to Westerby on 12 November 2014  that hed sought 
financial advice from Richard  Fletcher of Abana and wished to continue  to hold his 
investments in the funds. 
On 23 October 2015 Mr W called Westerby. Westerbys call note recorded that: 
He [Mr W] is concerned about the underlying  funds  - has taken advice and found that the 
funds are suspended.  Wanted to know how we as Trustees had allowed this to happen.
Westerby treated this as a complaint  from Mr W. It sent a response to the complaint  on 9 
December 2015.  It didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  It said:
It undertook due diligence on the proposed investments. But the situation Mr W found 
himself in was entirely out of its control.
It had written to Mr W in November 2014  to highlight problems with the investments, 
and to urge him to seek advice. 
The responsibility for investment advice sat with Abana, and the suitability of its 
advice was being reviewed. 
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mr W again. The letter of that date said:
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset Micro 
Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF)  and the Kijani  Fund...
Ref: DRN77704183We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform  and with Asset 
Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale)  request. We 
understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. The illiquid funds within  
your portfolio  cannot be sold at present, and will remain within the SIPP  EPS account for the 
time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current  value of the liquid 
and illiquid  elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £58,209.41 (SAMAIF expected  to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £58,349.36  (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter also sets out the redemption timescale  for what  are described as underlying  
funds, including  the TCA Global Credit Fund. 
It appears that Mr W had not, in fact, made a redemption request, as he contacted Westerby  
and requested a redemption  form on 4 January 2016. It was provided to him on the same 
day. Mr W signed the form on 10 January 2016  requesting a full withdrawal as far as 
liquidity would allow.  Following this request, around  £52,200  was paid into the bank account 
of his SIPP on 19 May 2016.  
In its 6 June 2016 submissions to us Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in
communication with the Mauritian regulators  in order to enable redemptions  from the fund,
however there are no definitive timescales  as yet. A copy of their latest  update is enclosed.
It also said:
I have enclosed a copy of a recent valuation of the account, which shows  that the portfolio is 
currently split as follows:
£2,009.83  as a pending  dividend from SAMAIF
£53,010.40 in Managed Portfolio S (which we understand consists  of Kijani and 
SAMAIF)
£58,357.53 in cash, which  we understand is due to be returned  to the SIPP  bank 
account in the near future. [As noted  above,  cash was paid into the SIPP  bank 
account on 19 May 2016, so it seems Westerbys information  might have been out of 
date when it made this submission]. 
Weve also been  given a copy of a 24 April 2016  update from SAMAIF, which suggests work 
to begin trading is still ongoing. So it seems likely the amount paid to the SIPP bank account 
came from an investment in the TCA Global Credit  Fund, or another investment rather  than 
the Kijani or SAMAIF funds, which both appear  to have  been suspended over the relevant 
period, and to have  still been held on the platform after the cash  had been paid to the SIPP 
bank account . 
After Mr Ws complaint was referred to us Westerby said, in summary:
Ref: DRN77704184By their nature, SIPPs are intended to allow members to choose the underlying  
investments. Westerby (as Trustee) is responsible for carrying out due diligence  on 
proposed investments  to ensure that they can be held within a SIPP but cannot 
assess the suitability  of an investment for a given member.
Westerby did not (and was not authorised to) provide  financial  advice.  The 
responsibility for the advice and for the suitability of the transfer and underlying 
investments lies with the financial  adviser. 
The advice given  to Mr W by Abana has been  deemed to be unsuitable  by an 
independent compliance consultancy, who were attempting to arrange compensation 
for the adviser's clients.
The investment  was placed  into what were  at the time regulated, listed investments 
in a regulated  platform. Mr W's financial adviser  (not Westerby) instructed the 
investment into the individual funds  within the platform.
When Westerby highlighted possible problems with the underlying investments, Mr W 
was asked if he wished  to remain in those investments. He gave a clear instruction 
that he wished  to retain the investments.
Our investigator thought Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld.  He thought the fact Abana was 
based abroad should have made  it stand  out when Westerby was carrying out its due 
diligence checks on Abana. He said the entry for Abana on the Financial Services  Register 
(the Register) would  have shown that Abana was only authorised to carry out insurance or 
reinsurance mediation  in the UK. Our investigator  said that personal pensions advice is not 
an activity covered by the IMD and that Westerby, as a SIPP  operator,  ought to have had the 
knowledge and expertise  to understand what permissions  were required, and what services 
Abana was allowed to provide in the UK. 
Our investigator concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Ws SIPP 
application from Abana, it was fair and reasonable for Westerby  to compensate  Mr W for his 
financial loss. He set out how he thought this loss should be assessed. 
Westerby didnt agree. It made a number of submissions following the investigators  view. I 
have summarised below what I consider to be the main points made, but I have carefully 
considered the submissions made  by Westerby in their entirety:  
It is the administrator  of the SIPP only and didnt  advise  Mr W on investing  in it. 
It carried out proper  due diligence on Abana which didnt reveal Abana wasnt  
authorised to advise  on pensions  in the UK. Accordingly, there was no reason not to 
accept Mr Ws application for a SIPP.
It did search the Register  in 2013,  which showed that Abana was EEA-authorised. It 
wasnt possible to find details of Abanas passport permissions as these were not 
provided on the Register as it was at that time. 
Ref: DRN77704185Having established  that Abana was EEA-authorised, and knowing Abanas country of 
origin was Portugal, it then searched  the Portuguese Regulators register,  which  was 
also available online. From this it established that Abana was authorised  to 
undertake both life and non-life business in the UK. There was nothing  to put it on 
notice that Abana wasnt authorised to advise clients in the UK about  pensions. It 
was entirely reasonable for it to rely on the entries on the Register and on the 
Portuguese Regulators register.
It also followed good practice by putting in place a terms of business agreement  with 
Abana. In this agreement Abana warranted  it was suitably authorised  in relation to 
the sale of SIPPs.  This supported  Westerbys own findings. 
Its neither fair nor reasonable for it to be required  to compensate Mr W. The loss 
was caused by Abanas advice to enter into the SIPP and by Mr Ws choice of 
investments. 
It in fact enabled Mr W to recover some of his money. It wrote  to him in December 
2015 confirming  that redemptions could  be made on some of his funds. As a result, 
he was able to redeem around  half the sum hed originally invested  in the SIPP.  
My first provisional decision 
After careful consideration of the available evidence and the submissions, I decided to issue 
a provisional decision  on the complaint. In brief, my provisional findings were:  
Abana required top up permissions from the FCA in order  to give advice on 
personal pensions  in the UK. 
Westerby ought to have carried out sufficient  due diligence  on Abana before  
accepting business from it. This included checking  initially, and on an ongoing basis,  
that introducers that were providing  advice  to clients had the appropriate permissions 
to be providing that advice. 
When conducting its due diligence, Westerby ought to have concluded  that Abana  
required top up permissions to give advice on personal pensions  in the UK. And 
Westerby ought to have conducted sufficient  due diligence  checks on Abana  to verify 
its permissions. It therefore should  have identified that Abana  did not have the 
relevant top up permissions. 
Westerby should not have accepted Mr Ws application as it ought  to have identified 
that Abana  did not have  permission to provide Mr W with personal  pension advice. 
And it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances to expect that Westerby  ought to 
have put a stop to the transaction.  
In the circumstances, it was fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mr W for the loss he 
has suffered. 
Ref: DRN77704186My provisional findings were accepted  by Mr W. They  were  not accepted  by Westerby.  
Westerbys initial  response to my provisional  decision  was to make  a request for information.  
I responded to that request on 30 July 2019 and provided a copy of all the information I had 
relied on when  reaching  my provisional  decision on Mr Ws complaint. In my response  to 
Westerby, I confirmed that it had seen - following  my response - everything I had relied  on 
when reaching  my provisional decision.  
I wrote  to Westerby  again on 30 October 2019  to provide it with some  additional information  
we had received  from FCA.  My letter said:  
As part of its submissions to this Service, Westerby provided a screen print which it said
represented the information contained  on the Financial Services  Register (the Register)  at 
the time it checked  Abanas permissions in 2013. The screen print notes  that Abana  is
EEA-authorised, but the section confirming  whether  Abana Undertakes Insurance
Mediation has been left blank (see page  15 of my provisional decision where  I have 
included a copy of the screen print provided  by Westerby).
In my provisional decision dated  16 July 2019, I stated I was not persuaded that a section of 
the Register described as providing  basic  details  contained the totality of the information 
that would  have been available to those searching  the Register at the time.
We have sought  additional information from the FCA in connection with this matter. The
FCA has confirmed that top up permissions do appear on the Register under the
Permissions section  - and that the FCA understands this was the same process in place in 
2013 when Westerby  accepted [Mr Ws] SIPP application from Richard Fletcher on behalf of 
Abana.
Following my first provisional  decision, Westerby made copious  submissions, across a 
number of letters. I have  considered all of Westerbys submissions in their entirety,  however 
I have only summarised here the points which I consider to be key:
It has provided evidence that it checked the Register at the point that it received Mr 
W's SIPP  application and at subsequent points. Its procedure is to check  the 
Register every time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time 
adviser fees are paid from the SIPP. This demonstrates good practice, as per the 
Financial Services Authoritys (FSA)  2009  thematic review report  (the FSA was 
FCAs predecessor). 
It reiterated that it had searched the Register  in 2013, which showed that Abana was 
EEA-authorised. It wasnt possible to find details of Abanas passport permissions as 
these were not provided on the Register as it was at that time. 
The Complaints Commissioner's report about the Register, dated 21 November 
2017, confirms  that the FCA cannot  state what information was available  on the 
Register at a given  time. 
It contacted the FCA on an unrelated matter and was told that the FCA could  not 
confirm what was not publicly available on the Register. On that occasion  the FCA 
told Westerby to contact  the firm in question to get the information.  
Ref: DRN77704187It provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FCA via the GABRIEL 
reporting system. This submits details of every new SIPP established  over a quarter, 
including the FRN of the introducing firm. The FCA was therefore aware that Abana 
was providing advice on SIPPs, but it did not express any concern. 
It is contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a firm on the basis  of the 
EEA country in which  it has been established.  In the absence of any way to 
independently verify Abana's permissions, it was entirely reasonable  to rely on its 
representation (as an authorised and regulated firm) that it held the relevant 
permissions. If this was not the case, it would  present a barrier  to an EEA authorised 
firm that would not exist for their UK-based counterparts.
GEN  4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the extent of 
its permissions clear  on request. This shows that the FCA directs that the firm should  
confirm its permissions.  The terms of business  it entered into with Abana provided for 
such a request and effectively formalised this disclosure through  a signed 
agreement.
Had it been able to identify that Abana did not hold the necessary top up 
permissions, it would  have declined to establish terms of business with Abana in 
June 2013, and it would have notified Abana of the reason  for its decision. However, 
given that Abana saw a business opportunity in providing advice on personal 
pensions within the UK, it is reasonable to expect that Abana would have applied for 
(and been granted) these top up permissions. Abana would then have either 
contacted Westerby  again or gone to another  SIPP operator,  which would have 
accepted the business.  
It is therefore fair and reasonable  to expect that Mr W would ultimately have made 
the investments  that have led to his loss, regardless of whether  it had initially been 
able to identify  that Abana did not hold the necessary top up permissions.
Mr W's decision to retain his investments in November 2014  has led directly to his 
inability to redeem  the remainder of the funds.  Westerby expects Mr W would have 
recovered his funds in their entirety had he requested a redemption  at that time.
It was reasonable  for it to expect that Abana, as an authorised  and regulated firm, 
would act diligently  and provide  suitable  advice to Mr W, given the new 
developments in relation to the funds that it had previously recommended.
It is relevant to note that the Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
acknowledges that there is a general principle that consumers  should  take 
responsibility for their own investment decisions.  And, as the Ombudsman  Service  is 
part of the consumer protection provisions under FSMA, it follows  that we must 
similarly have  regard to this principle.  
. 
Its due diligence  was not simply a check  of the Register. Its Chairman and 
Compliance Oversight was present at several  face to face meetings with Abana's  
Adviser and Compliance Director.  He was thorough  in his "testing" of their processes 
and due diligence.  This culminated  in Westerby establishing a legal document: the 
terms of business  in which Abana warranted  that it had the required permissions to 
introduce SIPPs. Abana therefore  effectively "defrauded" it. 
Ref: DRN77704188Paragraph 1.5 of the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/01 says: When  firms carry out 
research and due diligence they should consider whether they can rely on the 
information supplied  by the provider,  such as marketing material. Firms can rely on 
factual information  provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their research 
and due diligence process, for example, the asset  allocation.
It is able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This is not something  
it has done, but it is relevant that doing  so is acceptable to the FCA.
Westerby also referred me to the submissions which the Association of Member-Directed 
Pension Schemes (AMPS) included in their Intervention Document in the Berkeley Burke  
case (i.e. R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration  Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service  
[2018] EWHC 2878) . It also provided a summary  of the correspondence between the 
FSA/FCA and the industry at the time of regulation and subsequently. I will not summarise  
those in any greater  detail here,  but I have carefully  considered them in their entirety and I 
deal with the AMPS points  raised by Westerby later in this decision. 
We wrote  to Westerby  to ask if it was able to provide further  details of the several face to 
face meetings  it says took place between  it and Abanas Advisor  and Compliance Director. 
In reply, Westerby said it does not have any documentary evidence  recording the several 
meetings that took place with Abanas representatives. It said there was no requirement for a 
SIPP operator to meet with an introducing IFA and as such  it would not have  created  formal 
minutes recording the various discussions  that took place  and the information/assurances  
that Abana  provided during these meetings.
At the same time, we had also shared  with Westerby an archive  of the FCA register  entry for 
Abana from around the time of Westerbys acceptance of business  from Abana.  We also 
shared an example of how the entry under the passports section would likely have 
appeared for an incoming EEA firm on the Register  in 2013. We invited Westerby  to 
comment on these. 
In response, Westerby acknowledged that there were additional sections on the Register, 
but maintained  it would not have been able to ascertain  from the Register at the relevant 
time whether or not Abana held the required top up permissions. 
Following the judgment in Adams  v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey Pensions)  [2020] 
EWHC 1229 (Ch) (Adams v Options SIPP)  being  handed down, Westerby made  further 
submissions to our Service. It said, in summary: 
The FCAs submissions to the court gave the regulators views on what obligations 
arose from COBS 2.1.1R for a SIPP provider, which  were extensive. In his 
judgement, the judge rejected the regulators contentions, and confirmed that COBS 
2.1.1R must be read in light of the contract between Mr Adams (the client) and 
Options SIPP UK LLP (the SIPP provider). 
It is also of note that the judge  stated that the thematic reviews cannot properly be 
described as a set of rules or even guidance and in my judgment cannot give rise to 
a claim for failing to follow  the suggestions which it makes.  It is clear  that thematic  
reviews have no legal status, being  suggestions to help a firm to act in line with the 
Principles and the Rules.
Ref: DRN77704189Notwithstanding that the recommendations made within the thematic  reviews  are not 
obligatory (as confirmed  by paragraph  162 of Adams v Options SIPP), it recognised 
the reasoning  behind  them, and it implemented the suggestions  within them,  
including the introduction of intermediary terms of business  and it had done this 
with Abana.
Adams v Options SIPP has reaffirmed the general principle that consumers should 
take responsibility for their own investment decisions. It considers that any decision 
of the Ombudsman  Service must take account of this principle. 
It refers to paragraph 154 of the judgment  which says A duty to act honestly, fairly  
and professionally in the best interests of the client, who is to take responsibility  for 
his own decisions,  cannot be construed in my judgement as meaning that the terms 
of the contract  should be overlooked, that the client is not to be treated as able to 
reach and take responsibility for his own decisions and that his instructions are not to 
be followed.
There was no obligation to do more than Westerby has done  in this case. Namely to 
execute Mr Ws instructions.
I had noted  that its letter of November  2014 referred Mr W back  to Abana, as his 
adviser. It does not consider this overrides  Mr Ws responsibility for either instructing 
it to retain funds that were clearly high risk, or for taking  no action. Similarly, any 
decision to take no action in December 2015, when some funds became liquid for a 
short period of time (amounting to approximately half of the funds invested), should 
be the responsibility of Mr W.
We should check to see if Mr W received a cash incentive to make  his investment 
and ask for evidence  to support  his answer.  The judge in Adams v Options SIPP  
thought this was the primary motivation of Mr Adams, and presented  this as one of 
the reasons why his claim against Options  SIPP should not succeed. 
Further information  provided by Mr W.
We asked Mr W to let us know  what  he would  have done, had he been aware Abana  did not 
have permission to give advice on personal  pensions in the UK, and also to ask if he was 
offered or paid any sort of cash incentive to make  the investment and/or  transfer  to the SIPP.  
Mr W told us the only incentive  he was given was that the performance  of the recommended 
investment would be better than his existing pension. He later added  that he had, 
unexpectedly, been paid £200 by Abanas advisor after the application had completed. He 
says Abanas advisor told him he was giving him this as he had earned commission. Mr W 
also told us that he would  not, under any circumstances, have dealt with Abana had he 
known it did not have the required permissions   he says he would have sought  advice  
elsewhere. 
My second provisional decision
In the circumstances of this complaint,  I decided  it was appropriate  to issue  a second 
provisional decision. My second provisional decision explained I was satisfied that:
Ref: DRN777041810Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top up permissions to advise  
on personal pensions  in the UK and it should  have  taken all steps  available  to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.  
If Westerby had taken  these  steps, it would have  established  Abana  did not have the 
permissions it required to give personal pensions  advice in the UK, or alternatively 
that it was unable to confirm  whether  Abana had the required permissions. 
It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the 
points Westerby had raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept  Mr Ws 
application to open a SIPP in the first place.
I also remained of the view, given the general nature of Mr Ws complaint, (he simply says 
Westerby should not have allowed the loss to happen), that when deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case,  it was appropriate for me to take an 
inquisitorial approach.  And, I remained of the view that the key question to consider  in this 
complaint is whether Westerby,  acting in accordance with its own regulatory  obligations as 
set out in the Principles, and to meet the requirement to act in the best interests of its clients  
and treat them fairly, ought to have  accepted  Mr Ws application  from Abana.
The main  points I made in my second provisional decision, in summary, were: 
On the authorisation and permissions of Abana: 
It is accepted that Abana  was an authorised  person  for the purposes of FSMA 
(Abana was an EEA firm which  qualified for authorisation under  Schedule  3 of 
FSMA). The issue  being considered  here is whether Abana had the required 
permissions it needed to carry on the regulated activities  that it carried  on in relation 
to Mr Ws SIPP.  
It is not disputed  that Abana  required top up permissions to give advice on and to 
arrange deals  in personal pensions  in the UK (and that it in fact did not have these 
permissions). What is disputed is whether Westerby ought to have identified that 
Abana did not have the required  top up permissions.
I remained of the view that Westerby ought to have done more  to confirm whether  
Abana held the required top up permissions to give pensions advice in the UK. And, 
in failing to do so, it had not complied with the Principles, regulatory guidance (or 
COBS 2.1.1R). 
On Westerbys due diligence on Abana: 
At the relevant time, Westerby  was authorised as a SIPP operator. And, I was 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable  to say Westerby, as a SIPP  operator, ought  to 
have been familiar  with the rules, guidance,  legislation and relevant case  law that I 
referred to in my provisional decisions. It should therefore have been aware that a 
business based in Portugal passporting  into the UK under the IMD needed to have 
top up permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements  in relation to 
personal pensions  in the UK. 
Ref: DRN777041811Alternatively, if things  werent clear  to Westerby, it ought to have checked whether 
top up permissions were required  and understood  where to look.  Guidance on 
this was available in the FCA Handbook (see SUP App 3). Westerby  should have 
been aware of this guidance and should  have checked if an incoming EEA-
authorised firm required top up permissions in the circumstances. 
I had seen no evidence that Westerby documented this requirement  and then made 
specific enquiries of Abana to ask it to confirm it had the required top up 
permissions in order to provide  advice  or make  arrangements in relation to personal 
pensions in the UK. 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) and COBS 2.4.8G provide a general rule and guidance about 
reliance on others.  These  mean it would generally  be reasonable for Westerby  to rely 
on information Abana had provided  to it in writing,  unless Westerby was aware or 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds  
to question the accuracy of the information.  
I did not think an undocumented meeting with Abana  amounted  to Abana providing 
something in writing on which it may have been  reasonable for Westerby to rely on, 
as any assurances Abana gave at such meetings  were only a verbal  exchange. 
Westerby has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions it had with Abana 
during the meetings it has referred to, and I had seen no evidence it otherwise 
recorded what Abana told it about the permissions  it held. So there appeared to be 
nothing in writing  arising from these  meetings.  I therefore did not think COBS 2.4.6R 
was applicable in the circumstances.
Westerby says the meetings  it had with Abana culminated in Westerby  establishing  a 
legal document   the terms of business agreement  in which Abana warranted that 
it had the required  permissions. 
I was not persuaded that an agreement  written by Westerby  and signed by Abana  
amounted to information provided  by Abana in writing to Westerby  or that COBS 
2.4.6R was intended to apply to such circumstances. But, in any event, I thought, by 
the time of Mr Ws application,  Westerby was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of facts  that would give reasonable grounds to question  the accuracy  of 
what Abana had warranted:
oI was satisfied that, by the time of Mr Ws application, Westerby  had checked 
the FCA register. And, for all the reasons I had given in my provisional 
decisions, I thought such a check ought  to have led Westerby to conclude  
that Abana  did not have  any top up permissions. And, that Westerby  ought 
reasonably to have  been aware that relevant top up permissions  were  
required for Abana to provide advice on and arrange personal pensions in the 
UK. 
oTherefore, even if the agreement did amount to information provided  by 
Abana in writing  to Westerby, Westerby could not have relied on it under 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) by the time it received Mr Ws application for a SIPP.  By 
that time,  Westerby was aware,  or ought reasonably  to be aware, of facts that 
would give reasonable grounds  to question the accuracy of the warranty 
Abana had given  it by signing the terms of business agreement. 
Ref: DRN777041812I did not think there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to 
rely on the meetings or the agreement with Abana, because in summary:  
oSimply asking Abana to warrant broadly that it had all the required 
permissions was not sufficient to meet the standard of good practice at the 
relevant time. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the 
time. It has told us it checked the Register  at the point that it received Mr W's 
SIPP application and at subsequent points. It has told us its procedure was to 
check the Register every  time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time adviser  fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in 
its view, this demonstrates good  practice,  as per the FSAs 2009 thematic 
review report. That is a view I shared. 
oSo Westerby should  not have  and did not  rely solely on the agreement 
and meetings it had with Abana. And, for all the reasons given in my 
provisional decisions, I thought Westerbys check of the Register ought to 
have led to the conclusion that Abana did not in fact have the required top 
up permissions  to be giving advice on and arranging pensions in the UK.  
Therefore, in all the circumstances of this case,  I did not think it was reasonable for 
Westerby to have  relied on any verbal  assurances Abana  may have provided at the 
meetings it had with Westerby, or to have relied on the warranty Abana provided in 
the subsequent terms of business  agreement the parties entered  into.
Westerby says when  it checked the Register,  Abanas permissions were not included 
on its entry in the Register at the relevant time. Westerby provided a screenshot of 
Abanas entry on the Register  at the time it checked  it on receipt  of Mr Ws 
application for a SIPP.  Westerby initially said it understood  this was the totality of the 
information available on the Register  entry for Abana at the relevant time. However, 
its arguments on this point seem to have evolved over time and, following my first 
provisional decision, it seems Westerby have now accepted  that the Register did 
include other sections,  such as a passports  section  and a permissions section. 
However, it says that on checking  the Register at the relevant time, these sections 
did not contain any further information about  Abanas passports or permissions. 
I was satisfied that in order to meet  its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought  to have 
looked at the totality of the Register entry for Abana. I did not think it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that looking only at the basic details section of the Register 
amounted to an adequate completion of the check.  I thought  the passports and 
permissions sections of the Register were obviously relevant in the circumstances 
and therefore  ought to have  been looked at too, and that any check which  overlooked 
these sections would be inadequate. 
Westerby has provided  no evidence  that it carried out a check of the relevant 
passports or permissions sections of the Register entry for Abana. The only 
record of a check it carried  out on Abana at the relevant time is the screen shot it has 
provided of the basic  details entry for Abana. And, as I set out above, Westerby 
previously submitted that the basic  details  section  was the totality of the Register 
entry available for Abana at the relevant  time. So, I thought  it fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to conclude that Westerby did not carry out an adequate and/or 
complete check of the Register  prior to accepting  Mr Ws application  for a SIPP.  
Ref: DRN777041813In any event, if I accepted the point Westerby has made on the basis of its evolved 
arguments - that the Register  entry  for Abana did not include any further details 
under the passports  and permissions sections - then I remained of the view that 
the check of the Register would not have confirmed  that Abana  had the required 
permissions to be providing advice on or to be arranging deals in personal pensions  
in the UK. Therefore,  Westerby ought to have contacted the FCA for direct 
confirmation of the correct  position on Abanas permissions.  
Westerby says the FCA will not (and would not) confirm any details about a firm that 
are not available on the public  Register.  I accepted this. However, I noted the FCA 
has confirmed that top up permissions do appear  on the Register under the 
Permissions section  - and that the FCA understands this was the same in 2013 
when Westerby accepted Mr Ws application for a SIPP
 I noted that as Abana did not have any top up permissions there would have been 
no information about any top up permissions recorded on the Register. So I 
thought, if contacted,  the FCA would have done no more than confirm that publicly 
available information. In other  words,  the FCA would  have confirmed what the 
Register recorded  that Abana had no top up permissions allowing it to give advice 
on and to arrange deals in personal  pensions in the UK. 
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly about Abanas 
permissions, I did not think  the restriction it refers  to on what the FCA could confirm  
would have prevented it getting  the information  about Abanas permissions that it 
needed. Abana did not have any top up permissions. That was a matter of public 
record. The FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby.  
In any event, if Westerby  was unable to independently verify Abanas  permissions,  I 
thought it is fair and reasonable  to say it should  have  concluded  that it was unsafe  to 
proceed with accepting business  from Abana.  It was not reasonable, and not in-line 
with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting business  from 
Abana if the position  about  Abanas permissions was not clear. 
I also considered the further points raised by Westerby following my first provisional 
decision. These points  did not persuade me to depart  from my first provisional decision. I 
have considered these again  in my findings below, so will not set out a summary  of this here. 
In my second provisional decision  I also concluded it was fair and reasonable to hold 
Westerby to account  for its failure to decline Mr Ws application  from Abana,  and for it to be 
accountable for the financial loss to Mr W that flowed from this failure. 
The responses to my second  provisional  decision  
In response to my second provisional  deciison,  Westerby repeated a number of the points it 
had made  previously. It also submitted  a third party report, authored by a cyber forsensic 
investigator. It says the report deals expressly  with the question of whether  there was online  
access to permissions recorded on the FSA Register (2013) for Abana  LDA,  an EEA Firm 
authorised under the passporting provisions for the purposes of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive. And it says the report draws the following conclusions: 
Ref: DRN777041814After an extensive  search of relevant  internet archived  records, in the opinion of the 
expert there was no evidence that, in 2013, Permissions data relating  to Abana LDA 
could have been searched  by Westerby using the Register. 
The screenshot provided by Westerby dating  from 2013  is genuine.  
The structure of the Register was changed  after 2013, such  that by 2015 the relevant 
permissions for Abana were accessible. 
Westerby also said: 
When Westerby accessed  the Register entry for Abana in 2013,  there  was no 
information available or accessible to reveal the permissions  position. That 
information was simply  not available for an online  user.  That is self-evident from the 
screenshot that Westerby has provided,  which the expert  confirms  is genuine. 
As the expert report  identifies,  the pages  I have referred to in fact reflect post 2013  
changes to the structure of the Register. 
Westerby also referred to the Court  of Appeals judgment in Adams  v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474 (Adams v Options SIPP CA) and said it wanted to 
draw my attention to two points from the judgment  which it thought  were  relevant to this 
complaint, namely  that: 
The Court  of Appeal refused to interfere with the High Courts  conclusion that the 
scope of the COBS  2.1.1R duty was to be determined  according to the contractual  
arrangements in place between the parties.
The Court  of Appeal observed  that issues of causation arose  because  of the 
contractual warnings  provided to Mr Adams.  
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes  of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision  that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account  of the relevant considerations to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which  are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Ref: DRN777041815Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about  the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association)  v Financial  Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin)  (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles  always have  to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used  to contradict them. They are but specific  
applications of them to the particular  requirement they cover.  The general notion that the 
specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot  be 
an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.  
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley  J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding  what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA,  the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having  regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated  them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration  Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL),  Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review  claim  challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint  against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles  and good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
He concluded  that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke  to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before  allowing it into the SIPP wrapper,  and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment.  The ombudsman found  
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied  with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having  set out some paragraphs  of BBA including paragraph  162 set out above,  
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for 
new or unforeseen circumstances.  The judgment  in BBA shows  that they are, and 
indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-
based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt  to formulate a 
code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as 
those set out in Principles  2 and 6. 
Ref: DRN777041816The BBSAL  judgment  also considers  section  228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint.  The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness  of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described  above,  and included  the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant  considerations  that were  required to be taken  into account. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed  down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP. I took this judgment into account  when making my second provisional  decision. Mr 
Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High Court, and on 1 April 2021, the 
Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams  v Options SIPP  CA. I have taken 
account of both these judgments  when making this decision on Mr Ws case. 
I note that the Principles  for Businesses  did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options  SIPP.  And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP  operators  in his judgment.  The Court  of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these judgments provide any 
assistance with the application of the Principles  for Businesses, and in particular, they say 
nothing about  how the Principles apply  to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined  above,  Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would  be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were  to reach  a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application  of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the Principles  are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
COBS 2.1.1R 
In my provisional decisions I referred to COBS 2.1.1R.  As a reminder, the rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client (the client's  best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles,  COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams  v Options 
SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach  of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant  to section 138(D)  of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found  that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights  dismissal of the COBS  
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking  to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial  pleadings. The Court found  that this part of Mr Adams  appeal  did 
not so much represent  a challenge to the grounds on which  HHJ Dight had dismissed  the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely  new case). 
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed  by COBS  2.1.1R.  HHJ Dight  said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
Ref: DRN777041817has to identify the relevant factual context, because  it is apparent  from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact  on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps  composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties  entered, which  defined  their roles  and 
functions in the transaction.
However, the factual  context in Mr Ws case is very different to that of Mr Adams.  In Adams 
v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted that the transaction  with Options SIPP  proceeded on an 
execution only basis. In contrast to that, the transaction between Mr W and Westerby  
proceeded on the footing that Mr W was being advised by an authorised advisor. And, I need 
to construe the duties Westerby owed to Mr W under COBS  2.1.1R  in light of the specific  
facts of Mr Ws case.
I also want to again emphasise here that I do not say that Westerby  was under any 
obligation to advise Mr W on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept 
an application because  it came about  as a result of advice  given by a firm which  did not have 
the required permissions  to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same  thing  as advising Mr W on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP. 
I think it is important to also again  emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing  that, I am required  to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal  pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.   
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside  the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within  the 
factual context of Mr Ws case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and which set out how they might achieve  the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009  report  included  the following statement:
Ref: DRN777041818We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their customers.  COBS  3.2.3(2) states  that a member  of a pension  scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse  the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member  to confirm the position,  or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients,  and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments  recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, together  with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Ref: DRN777041819Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible  for advice,  having  this 
information would enhance the firms  understanding of its clients, making  the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP  operators  and so is a customer under  Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators  
responsibility to assess  its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved  persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear  on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business  warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business  objectives  are, the types  of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments  such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example  from 
the prospective member  or their adviser,  if it has any concerns. 
Ref: DRN777041820Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being  supplied  with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being  used  to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and 
clarify responsibilities  for relationships with other professional bodies  such  as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where  a tax charge  is incurred,  that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence  the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate  any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate  permissions,  qualifications  
and skills to introduce different types  of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected  parties  and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
Ref: DRN777041821ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been 
approved by the firm
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009  and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013  finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance  does not mean their importance should  
be underestimated. They provide a reminder  that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might  do to ensure  it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.  In that respect,  the 
publications which set out the regulators  expectations of what  SIPP operators should be 
doing also goes  some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when  deciding what amounted to have been  good industry practice  in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman  found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter  go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what  should  not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed  the lawfulness of the approach taken  by the ombudsman. 
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought  
the 2009 thematic review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. As I set out below, and set out in my first provisional decision, Westerby 
did carry out due diligence  on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was good  practice  to do so, at 
the very least.  
Ref: DRN777041822Like the ombudsman  in the BBSAL  case,  I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 and 2012 Thematic  Review Reports), post-date the events that took place in 
relation to Mr Ws complaint, mean that the examples of good  practice  they provide were  not 
good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them  existed 
throughout, as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles. 
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards  
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear  the standards  
themselves had not changed.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind.  The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave  non-exhaustive examples of good  practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what  a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO  letter  
notes, what should  be done to meet regulatory  obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In determining this complaint,  I need  to consider whether, in accepting  Mr Ws SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied  with its regulatory obligations as set out by the 
Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise  its 
business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard  to the interests  of its 
customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing 
that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of 
what Westerby could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation  of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting  its regulatory obligations when  conducting  this business would include 
deciding whether to accept  or reject particular  investments and/or referrals  of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  its work with SIPP operators.  This included confirming, both initially  
and on an ongoing  basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing.  
So taking account of the factual context of this case, it is my view that in order  for Westerby 
to meet  its regulatory  obligations, (under the Principles  and COBS  2.1.1R),   it should  have 
undertaken sufficient  due diligence checks to ensure Abana  had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make  arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Ws business from it. 
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Abana before  accepting business from it. 
And I accept  that it did undertake some  checks.  However, the question I need  to consider in 
this complaint is whether Westerby ought  to have, in compliance with its regulatory 
obligations, identified  that Abana did not in fact have the top up permissions it required to 
be giving  advice on and arranging personal  pensions in the UK, and whether Westerby 
should therefore not have  accepted Mr Ws application from it. 
Ref: DRN777041823The regulatory position  
Abana is based in Portugal  and is authorised  and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF). As I set out above, Abana  held 
an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services  
passport from 12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015.  
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
2. Insurance  mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing  or carrying  out
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding
such contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts,
in particular in the event  of a claim.
3. Reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying  
out other work  preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting  in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event  of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled  Implementation of the Insurance Meditation
Directive for Long-term insurance business it is stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general  insurance and pure protection  business
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG)  offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running  personal pension schemes. The guidance  in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Ws SIPP confirms  that a personal  pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities  (PERG  12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order  
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other  than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal  pension  schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided  to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers or deposit takers (including  free-standing  voluntary  contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated  Activities Order, a SIPP  is a personal pension  scheme.  Article  82 of 
the Regulated Activities  Order (Part  III Specified  Investments) provides  that rights  under a 
personal pension  scheme  are a specified  investment.
Ref: DRN777041824 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension  
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities  Order.  It did not 
have permission to carry on the separate activity  under Article  10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Ws application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities  Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 Activities 
2 Part II RAO  
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note  1)
2.Concluding contracts  of insurance  Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance  of 
contracts of insurance, in particular  in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article  82 investments are not covered by the Insurance Mediation  
Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Ws application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities  in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top up permission under 
Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs  top up permissions from 
the FCA to carry on regulated activities which  arent  covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant  rules regarding top up permissions  could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7.  SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at July 2013):
If a person  established  in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise,  a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4  G to 
SUP 13A.3.11 G);
Ref: DRN777041825to carry on a particular  regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must  seek  Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator  to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations 
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single  Market Directives, or where  the activity  is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's  Home  
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other  activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up  permission.
In the glossary  section  of the FCA Handbook  EEA authorisation is defined  (as at July 2013)  
as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule  3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary  or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article  3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted  to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose  of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which I set out above)  was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities  in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights.  
In this case the regulated activities in question did not fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them  in the UK. Westerby, acting  in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations,  should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation I have referred to above,  (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering  whether to accept 
business from Abana, which  was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should  therefore 
have known - or have  checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal that was 
EEA-authorised needed to have top up permissions to give advice and make arrangements 
in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And, that top up permissions had to be granted  by 
the the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana  required the relevant top up permissions 
from FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence  on Abana and it could not 
and should not reasonably have concluded that Abana did not have the required top up 
permissions. I have  again carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The Register
Ref: DRN777041826I am satisfied that in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified  Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
therefore consider  it is fair and reasonable to expect  Westerby to have  checked  the Register 
entry for Abana in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I think it fair and reasonable to say 
that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas  Register  entry should have 
included a review  of all the relevant information  available.  
Westerby says it did check Abanas entry on the Register. So, Westerby clearly thought it 
should check the Register, rather than simply ask Abana what permissions it had and merely 
rely on what Abana told it. And the Register  - and in particular what  would have been seen 
on Abanas Register entry at the time of Mr Ws SIPP  application - is the main focus of 
Westerbys most recent submissions. On this point it says When  Westerby  accessed the 
online register for Abana LDA in 2013, there  was no information available or accessible to 
reveal the permissions  position. That information  was simply not available  for an online 
user.
I have carefully considered everything  Westerby has said about the format of the Register in 
or around  2013  when Mr Ws application  was submitted by Abana.  
In a letter dated 18 December 2017 Westerby,  via its then legal representative, said:
WTS [Westerby]  searched Abana on the Financial Services  register  on 10 May 2013 and 
established that they were EEA authorised. A copy of a screenshot of the search  dated  10 
May 2013 is attached. You will note that the search  results did not include a Passports  
section, or any mention  in the notices or other information sections of any restrictions  on 
Abanas permission,  which  would be usual if there had been any restriction. Whilst WTS  
accept that a present day search  includes a Passports section, they dispute that a search 
in May 2013  did, as illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting  reasonably, WTS could 
not have found details  of the passport permission from a search of the Financial Services  
register at that time. 
The following  print out from the Register was attached to that letter: 
*Image Removed*
The third-party report provided by Westerby following my second provisional decision is 
helpful on the question of the format of the Register at the time of Mr Ws SIPP application.  
The report  includes the following screenshot of the archived Register  for Abana  (dated 24 
July 2013):
*Image Removed*
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana  (i.e. Regulators, Basic details, Contact 
for complaints, etc) is a hyperlink to another page  of Abanas entry on the Register. So, this 
screenshot is in fact consistent with my findings to date that Abanas 2013 entry on the 
Register included  both Permission and Passports pages (amongst other pages, including  
the Basic Details page that Westerby has provided). It is therefore reasonable to conclude  
from the above screenshot that the format of the Register in or around the time Mr Ws SIPP 
application was submitted  to Westerby in 2013 included pages which provided information  in 
relation to both a firms  passport details and in relation to a firms permissions. 
Ref: DRN777041827However, the third-party report  goes on to say that there is no evidence that in 2013  the 
Register contained any permissions information relating to Abana that could have been 
searched by Westerby.  The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this 
conclusion. 
I have carefully reviewed the third-party report and paragraph 24 only confirms that if the 
hyperlink to the Permission page  is clicked, there  is no archive of that specific page. In my 
view, the fact the link to the Permission page on the archive entry for Abana yields nothing 
speaks only to the limitations of the internet archive. It is not evidence that no Permission 
page for Abana existed  in 2013. To the contrary, the evidence provided elsewhere  in the 
report strongly suggests such a page  did exist for Abana.  
I accept that, for the relevant time,  only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas 
entry on the Register.  But the report provided  by Westerby, helpfully, provides  examples of 
several Permission pages for other firms which were archived, dating from the around the 
time of Mr Ws SIPP application or earlier. The below example, dating  from 2012, and 
relating to a Cypriot firm which,  like Abana, was an incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
*Image Removed*
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming  EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed no matches  found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register  for EEA 
firms did include  a page with information  on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded is 
that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions  from the FCA).  
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows  no matches  found ), and a page  
for a UK firm which  was authorised and held permissions  at the relevant time, which  shows  
the firms permissions set out in detail.  
All of this information  taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Ws application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain  a page labelled  Permission 
and this page is where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm did not have any FCA permissions  at the time of the search,  the Permission page on 
their Register entry would state no matches  found  (as there  were  no permissions to 
display).  
This is consistent with the information we received  from FCA when we asked  it to confirm 
whether top up permissions appear  on the Register,  and whether this has changed since  
2013. In response  to our query, FCA confirmed that top up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that the FCA understands the same  information 
was available  on the Register in 2013.   
To be clear, I have never  said that the Basic Details screenshot  Westerby has provided for 
Abana is not genuine. I say that this screenshot is only one page  of Abanas Register entry  
for the relevant time, and there  were  several other pages, all of which could and should have 
been checked by Westerby - including  the Permission page, which is where any top up 
permissions held by Abana would have appeared (if they had in fact been held by the firm). 
So, to summarise my conclusions so far, I am satisfied:
Ref: DRN777041828That in order to meet its regulatory  obligations,  Westerby ought to have  
independently checked and verified  Abanas permissions before accepting business 
from it. And it is fair and reasonable  to expect Westerby to have checked the totality 
of Abanas Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register  in 2013  did include a Permission page and it follows  that 
the entry for Abana on the Register at the time of Mr Ws application would  have 
included a Permission page  which Westerby ought to have checked. 
As I set out above, Westerbys arguments on the Register appear, in my view, to have 
evolved since I issued  my first provisional  decision. In previous submissions to us, Westerby  
has said that the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry  available for 
Abana at the relevant  time.  However,  it now seems to have accepted  that the Register  did 
include other sections,  such as a Passports page  and a Permission page.  However,  it 
says that on checking the Register  at the relevant time, these sections  did not contain any 
further information about Abanas passports or permissions.
I think it is highly relevant that Westerby  has been  unable to produce  any evidence that it did 
in fact check the Permission page  for Abana  before it accepted Mr Ws SIPP application 
from the firm. And, this together with Westerbys previous submissions on the Register  
strongly suggest, in my view, that the Basic details page is the extent of the check 
Westerby made of the Register at the relevant time.  In light of this, I am not satisfied that 
Westerby took adequate steps to check the totality  of information available  at the relevant 
time on Abanas entry on the Register.   
Even if I accepted that Westerby did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant 
time, it appears to have  failed to have kept a record of this check, and unfortunately, as set 
out above, the 2013 record of the Permission  page  for Abana has not been  archived. So we 
have no evidence of what specific information  was available  on this page for Abana at the 
relevant time. However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, I am satisfied that there 
would have been a Permission page  available on Abanas Register  entry. And, if this page 
had erroneously failed  to contain any information  on whether or not Abana  held the relevant 
permissions, (i.e. it had been left entirely  blank), Westerby  ought to have taken further steps  
to ascertain what the correct position  was. I do not accept Westerbys submission that 
information about a firms permissions was simply not available  for an online user in 2013.  
The report  submitted by Westerby demonstrates  the contrary  to be the correct position.
Westerby has referred me to two reports from the Complaints Commissioner both of which  
highlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. I have considered these reports and 
the submissions Westerby has made  on this point. However, notwithstanding the criticisms 
of the Register,  I am satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby,  acting  in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought  to have  understood that Abana  needed  
permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for personal pensions  in 
the UK. Therefore, before accepting business  from Abana, Westerby  needed to confirm that 
Abana held the required  permissions. And, for the reasons I have set out above, I am 
satisfied that Abanas entry on the Register  at the relevant time would have included a page  
with information  on its permissions. And, if this page  had not set out any information (it had 
erroneously been  left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, should 
not have accepted Mr Ws application  from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to 
clarify the correct position on the firms permissions.    
Ref: DRN777041829On this point, in its response to my second  provisional decision, Westerby has repeated its 
previous submission that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. There  is little I can 
add to my second provisional decision on this point. I accept FCA will not (and would not) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. However, for all the 
reasons Ive given  above, Im satisfied that top up permissions are something which  are 
recorded on the FCAs public register, and that this was also the case  in 2013  when 
Westerby accepted  Mr Ws application from Abana. So, although we do not have evidence 
of exactly what did appear on Abanas Permission  page in 2013, if it had erroneously been  
left blank, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude the FCA would have been able to 
confirm the position that Abana did not  in fact  have the required permissions, as this was 
information that ought to have been publicly  available, on the Register. So, I am not 
persuaded by Westerbys  submissions on this point and I am satisfied this was a sensible 
and proper route open to it to verify Abanas permissions before accepting business  from it.     
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm  Abanas 
permissions because the Register did not contain  the relevant details, I do not think the 
restriction it refers to on what  the FCA could confirm would have prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Abana did not have any top-up permissions. That was a matter  of 
public record. So, the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby.  
For completeness, if I am wrong in my finding that Abanas entry  on the Register  at the 
relevant time included  a Permission page,  (and the Basic details page  was the totality  of 
the Register entry for Abana in 2013), I still do not think it is fair and reasonable to conclude  
that it was appropriate  or in accordance with its regulatory obligations - for Westerby to 
have proceeded  with Mr Ws application  from Abana  in those circumstances. 
As set out above, Westerby ought  to have independently checked  and verified Abanas 
permissions before accepting business  from it.  If there was no information available or 
accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana,  
then Westerby ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it 
ought to have declined to accept any applications  from Abana  until such  a time as it could 
verify the correct position on Abanas  permissions.  
Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions  a 
position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence - I think  it is fair and reasonable 
to say that Westerby should  have  then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with 
accepting business  from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion,  it was not 
reasonable, and not in-line  with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with 
accepting business  from Abana if the position was not clear.  
So, to summarise, I am satisfied:
It was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Abana if, as Westerby now says,  there  was no information available  or accessible to 
reveal the permissions  position.  
In that case Westerby  should have sought  confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top up permissions. And, as I am satisfied this would have been  a 
matter of public record, I am satisfied  the FCA would have been able to confirm  
whether or not Abana held any permissions. 
Ref: DRN777041830Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas  permissions, Westerby  
should simply have  declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby  have relied on what Abana  told it? 
Westerby has made no further representations on this point, following my second provisional 
decision. But, for completeness, I have reconsidered  it. Westerby says that it agreed Terms 
of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in signing the Agreement,  Abana  confirmed it 
held the permissions it required. Westerby also refers to meetings which  it says took place 
between it and Abana. It says Abana confirmed its permissions in these meetings. Westerby 
says that as Abana was an authorised firm, it was entitled to rely on what  Abana  had told it. 
Westerby refers to FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA 
Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual information provided  by 
other EEA-regulated firms  as part of their due diligence process (TR/16/1, Para  5), and the 
statutory status  disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides  a general rule about  reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken  to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires  it 
to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable  for it to rely on information  
provided to it in writing  by another person. 
And COBS  2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable  (in accordance with COBS  2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought  reasonably  to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy  of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy  of the information. 
As I set out in my second provisional decision, Westerby  has confirmed that it kept no 
records of the discussions  it had with Abana during the meetings it has referred  to, nor did 
Westerby record in writing  specifically  what Abana told it about the permissions it held. 
Westerby says that SIPP operators are not required to meet  with IFAs/firms before accepting 
business from them, and accordingly, it was not required to keep any records of the 
meetings it had with Abana. 
However, Westerby now seeks  to rely on these  meetings to evidence that it did take steps to 
ascertain Abanas  permissions and that Abana had confirmed to Westerby that it had the 
required top up permissions. In my view, if these meetings were the way Westerby  was 
intending to evidence Abanas permissions,  in order to comply with it regulatory obligations, 
in particular Principle  2, (to conduct its business  with due skill, care and diligence), and 
Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs  responsibly and 
effectively), Westerby ought to have had processes in place to ensure that it was able to 
evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana,  including  the steps  taken to confirm 
Abanas permissions.  
Ref: DRN777041831I do not think any meetings Westerby had with Abana  amounts to Abana providing  
something in writing on which it may have been  reasonable for Westerby to rely as it was a 
verbal exchange only and there appears to be nothing in writing  arising from these  meetings. 
I do not therefore think COBS 2.4.6R  applies  to the meetings.  
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document   the Agreement  in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPPs business.  However, the Agreement  appears to be a generic 
document and not specific to Abana. It does not refer to, nor require either party  to confirm 
or warrant the accuracy of information supplied  during a prior due diligence  process (i.e. the 
meetings at which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its permissions). 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised  by the Financial  Services  
Authority in relation  to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments  where  
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions,  authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable  Laws. 
In my view, this does  not amount to a clear  statement that Abana  had the required top up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions  in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely. Firstly, at the date of the Agreement,  the FSA was no longer in existence, 
so the warranty  that the intermediary [Abana] was authorised  by the FSA was clearly 
incorrect and should have been a cause for concern.  
In addition, the activity of advising  on rights  under personal pension  schemes is not 
mentioned; rather,  the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which  is an 
ambiguous term that might easily apply only to the activity of arranging  deals. And, the 
warranty that he/she  is suitably authorised is generic and does not refer specifically to top 
up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it has top up permissions to 
conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering  the terms of the Agreement and all the submissions Westerby  has 
made in relation to what Westerby says Abana told it about the permissions it held, I am not 
satisfied on the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what  top up permissions 
Abana required to be arranging  and giving advice on personal pensions  in the UK and that it 
requested, and received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. I am also 
not satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in 
seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana  warranted it had the 
required top up permissions. 
In any event, it is my view that Westerby should  have done more  to independently verify that 
Abana had the required  top up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent checks  
on Abanas permissions  as required by its regulatory  obligations,  it ought  to have been privy 
to information  which did not reconcile with what Abana  had told it about its permissions. So, 
in failing to take this step, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude  that Westerby did not 
do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the permissions it required.    
Ref: DRN777041832So, for all the reasons  Ive set out above,  I do not think COBS  2.4.6R  (2) applies to either the 
meetings Westerby  had with Abana or the Agreement the parties entered  into. However, Ive 
also given careful  thought  to whether it, was reasonable for Westerby  to rely on these things 
generally. I note Westerby  refers to FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex  1 of 
the FCA Handbook, and I have considered this question  with those details in mind.  However,  
I am not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby  to rely 
on the meetings  and Agreement,  for much  the same  reasons as I have given  above  in 
relation to COBS  2.4.6R  (2).  
As the 2009 Thematic  Review report makes clear, good practice,  consistent  with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations  under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise clients  are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA,  that they have  the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning  notices.
The 2009  report  also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should  have systems and controls  
which adequately  safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good  practice  to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients  interests. And I do not think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing  this confirmation was sufficient to meet  this standard  
of good practice.  This is a view Westerby itself appears to have  shared  at the time. It has 
told us it checked  the Register at the point that it received  Mr W's SIPP  application and at 
subsequent points. It has also told us its procedure was to check the Register every time a 
SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time adviser  fees are paid from 
the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs  2009 
thematic review report. That is a view I share. 
 
So Westerby  should  not have  and did not  rely solely on the Agreement and meetings. 
And, as mentioned  above, for all reasons  I have  given, I think Westerbys check  of the 
Register ought to have  led to the conclusion that Abana did not have the required top up 
permissions (i.e. if the information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly 
recorded), or in the alternative, that the Register did not record  the information on Abanas  
Permission page in order  for Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other  (i.e. if the 
Permission page had erroneously  been  left blank).  This means that either Westerby ought  to 
have become aware of  information  which did not reconcile with what  Abana had told it about 
its permissions in the meetings and the Agreement, or that it was still under  a regulatory 
obligation to undertake further enquiries  to independently check  Abanas  permissions,  and 
by failing to do so, it did not meet the requirements  it was under as a regulated SIPP 
operator.
Anomalous features 
Ref: DRN777041833In both my provisional decisions, I said Westerby ought to have identified  a risk of consumer 
detriment to Mr W. I remain of the view that Westerby  ought to have identified a risk of 
consumer detriment here. Mr W was taking advice on his pension from a business based in 
Portugal. That advice  was to transfer from an occupational pension scheme, which  may 
have offered important  guaranteed benefits,  into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the 
money transferred  into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius. The investments 
involved were unusual,  and specialised. And the chances of them being suitable investments 
for a significant portion of a retail investors  pension were very small. So, given the relevant 
factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from Mr W as carrying  a significant 
risk of consumer detriment. And it should have been aware that the role of the advisor  was 
likely to be a very important one in the circumstances   emphasising  the need for adequate 
due diligence  to be carried  out on Abana to independently  ensure  it had the correct  
permissions to be giving advice on personal  pensions in the UK. 
I do not expect Westerby  to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr W 
 and I accept  it could not do that. But, in order to meet  the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS  2.1.1R),  I think  it ought  to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which  
carried a significant  risk of consumer  detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence   it had to do so to treat Mr W fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the point I have  made  above about anomalous  features  of the 
proposed business,  I remain  of the view that Westerby ought to have  properly checked  
Abanas permissions  in order to comply  with its regulatory obligations. I make the above 
point only to highlight  the importance of carrying out this check. 
Other points previously raised  by Westerby
Following my second provisional decision,  Westerby has made  no further  submissions on 
any of the below points it has raised  in previous submissions.  However, for completeness, I 
have reconsidered  all these points and I provide a summary of my findings  below:  
In my view, carrying out adequate checks on Abanas permissions does not equate  
to treating Abana differently by virtue  of its location. Westerby should have carried  
out these checks  on any firm introducing advised  business  to it. 
I have seen no evidence to suggest  that, at the time Westerby  accepted  Mr Ws 
application from Abana, a factor in its decision to do so was  that it had been 
reporting the previous business  it had been  doing with Abana  to the FCA, and the 
FCA had not raised any concerns with it about  this business.  In  any event, I remain 
of the view that this is irrelevant, because if Westerby had acted in compliance  with 
its regulatory obligations, it would not have accepted business from Abana  at all and 
Abana would therefore not have  featured in its reporting to FCA. 
Ref: DRN777041834I do not think the document submitted to the court in the BBSAL case  (the 
submissions from AMPS) makes any points which are relevant to this case. The main 
point being made in the AMPS submissions  is that the BBSAL case  had 
retrospectively moved the goal posts,  with the result of duties being imposed on SIPP  
operators which go far beyond what SIPP operators had understood their duties to 
be at the relevant time. However,  Westerbys understanding  of its obligations at the 
relevant time appear to be aligned with my view of what it should have done: it 
accepts it should have checked  the permissions held by Abana,  and it says it carried  
out such a check  at the time.  It has also submitted that it entered  into terms of 
business with Abana  and that Abana had verified to it that it held the required  
permissions. So, I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to conclude  that 
Westerby understood its obligations  to include checking that Abana held the required 
permissions. It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to conclude  that Westerby  
understood its obligations at the time to include checking that Abana  held the 
required permissions  this is evidenced  in the actions that Westerby took in relation 
to Abana.
In any event, the issue at the heart  of this complaint was dealt with specifically in the 
FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report, which pre-dates Mr Ws business  by a number 
of years.  It is therefore fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby  was aware,  or 
ought to have been aware, of its obligation  to independently verify Abanas 
permissions before accepting business  from it.   
Westerby says if it had identified  that Abana did not have the required top up 
permissions, Abana  would  have  applied for, and been granted, the relevant top up 
permissions. However,  I find no merit in this submission.  I am required to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case. And in this case,  
Westerby accepted  business from a firm which did not have the required permissions 
to be carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to identify this fact 
prior to accepting Mr Ws application. So, this is what  I need  to consider here  not a 
possible situation that could have happened.
I remain of the view that there seems to be no basis  on which  Mr Ws application 
could or would have proceeded on the understanding Abana was an unregulated 
introducer. It seems to have been understood from the outset that Abana  was not 
simply an introducer of investments to its customers.  It was carrying on the regulated 
activities of advising and arranging.  It seems that in any event, Westerby had a policy  
not to accept introductions from unregulated businesses. So, in the circumstances, I 
dont think it is fair and reasonable to make  any findings based on the fact that 
Westerby was able to accept introductions from unregulated businesses, as that was 
not the circumstances involved  in this case.
In conclusion 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements  for personal  pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps  available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.  
Ref: DRN777041835If Westerby had taken  these steps, it would have  established Abana  did not have the 
permissions it required to give advice  or make  arrangements  for personal pensions  in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either  event, it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations  nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business  from Abana. 
It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Ws application from 
Abana.
I am therefore satisfied  the fair and reasonable conclusion  in this complaint is that Westerby 
should not have accepted Mr Ws SIPP application from Abana. 
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr W compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business  have still gone ahead  if Westerby had refused  the application? 
Mr W has told us he knew Abanas advisor  as an insurance man and was given advice on 
his pension after he had mentioned to Abanas advisor that he had a frozen pension  and 
Abanas advisor said he should do something with that pension. 
I remain satisfied that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Ws application from Abana,  and 
explained to Mr W why it was not able to do so, Mr W would not have continued to accept or 
act on pensions advice  provided by Abana  (as he would then have been aware it was not 
able to provide  such advice). Mr W has told us that if had been made aware  that Abana  was 
acting outside  its permissions in giving pensions advice, he would have sought advice 
elsewhere. And, I think it very unlikely advice from an authorised business would have 
resulted in Mr W taking the same  course  of action. I think it reasonable to say Mr W would 
have sought out a business with the required permissions  and that business would have 
given suitable  advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge  found  that Mr Adams  would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight  says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive..
But, in this case, I have seen no evidence  to show Mr W proceeded in the knowledge that 
the investment  he was making was high risk and speculative, and that he was determined  to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash  incentive offered by 
Abana. 
Instead, it appears Mr W understood  the investment, via the SIPP,  would offer a better return 
than his existing  pension. In a questionnaire  Mr W completed at the request of the business 
which was appointed to review the advice he was provided by Abana, Mr W said he was not 
made aware  of any potential risks and was just told the investment was a good one. 
Ref: DRN777041836Mr W was also not paid a cash  incentive. As set out above, he did receive a £200 payment 
unexpectedly after the investments completed. But, Mr W was not expecting to receive  this 
payment and it therefore cannot be said that the payment had incentivised him to enter  into 
the transaction. I am satisfied that Mr W, unlike Mr Adams, was not eager to complete the 
transaction for reasons  other than securing the best pension for himself.  So, in my opinion,  
this case is very different  from that of Mr Adams.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude  that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Ws application  from Abana, the transaction would not still have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of Abana
I note Westerby says that Mr W has been  made an offer of compensation by Abana.  I have 
not seen any evidence to show an offer of compensation has been  made  to Mr W by Abana.  
We have asked Mr W about  this, and he has said he has received no such  offer. 
In any event, in this decision I am considering  Mr Ws complaint about Westerby. While  it 
may be the case that Abana gave unsuitable advice  to Mr W to transfer  from an OPS to a 
SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations 
when considering whether to accept Mr Ws application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct  regulated business that went  beyond  the scope  of 
its permissions. Westerby was not required to ensure Abana  complied with that 
responsibility. But Westerby  had its own distinct  regulatory  obligations  under the Principles. 
And this included to check that firms introducing  advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply  with these obligations 
in this case. 
I remain satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and 
acted in accordance  with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently  
checking Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby would not have 
done any SIPP business with Abana in the first place. 
I also remain satisfied that if Mr W had been told Abana was acting outside  its permissions  in 
giving pensions advice,  he would not have continued to accept or act on advice from that 
business. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, it is my view that 
it is fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible  for its failure  to identify that Abana  did 
not have the required top up permissions  to be giving advice and making  arrangements on 
personal pensions  in the UK. 
I appreciate that Mr W has also made  a complaint  against Abana,  and Westerby  maintains 
that the responsibility for the financial loss suffered by Mr W should lie with Abana.
The Dispute Resolution:  Complaints rules (the DISP rules) - found in the Redress section 
of the FCA Handbook - sets out the following at DISP 3.6.3G:
Where a complainant  makes complaints  against more than one respondent in respect  of 
connected circumstances, the Ombudsman  may determine that the respondents must 
contribute towards the overall  award  in the proportion that the Ombudsman  considers 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN777041837The DISP  rules also set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money  
award, then that money award  may be such amount as the ombudsman  considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court  would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
In this case Mr W has complained about both Westerby, as the SIPP operator, and about 
Abana as the financial advisor.  But here I am considering only Mr Ws complaint about 
Westerby. And, as I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case to hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with 
the relevant regulatory obligations and to treat Mr W fairly. 
The starting point  therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby  to pay Mr W 
compensation for the loss he has suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. I have however 
considered if there is any reason why it would  not be fair to ask Westerby  to compensate Mr 
W for his loss. 
The complaint about Abana has not yet been determined  and it is possible the ombudsman  
who decides that complaint will find that Mr W also has a valid complaint about Abana. And, 
as the complaints relate to connected circumstances, (i.e. the transfer of Mr Ws pension  out 
of an OPS and into a SIPP), any complaint about Abana  would need to consider the same 
losses suffered by Mr W as in his complaint about  Westerby  although  the losses  arise from 
different failings. 
So, in these circumstances  I have discretion to decide what Westerby  must  contribute 
towards the overall award in the proportion that I consider appropriate. And, in deciding what  
fair compensation is in this case,  I have carefully taken this into account. As mentioned, the 
starting position is that Mr W is entitled to fair compensation from Westerby for the financial 
loss he has suffered. And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the 
circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr W to the full extent of the financial losses  he 
has suffered due to Westerbys failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana,  in advising Mr W to enter  into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course  of action that led to Mr Ws loss. However,  it is also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP  
operator, the arrangement for Mr W would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could  have been avoided. 
I further note that the document that sets out the terms of business  between Westerby and 
Abana includes a section  where the intermediary - Abana - agreed to indemnify Westerby  for 
any loss it may suffer as a result  of the intermediary  acting  beyond its authority. So, this 
gives Westerby a form of recourse if it thinks Abana has breached the terms of this 
agreement.  
In addition, Westerby can have the option  to take an assignment  of any rights  of action Mr W 
has against Abana before compensation is paid.  Compensation could be made  contingent 
upon Mr Ws acceptance of this term of settlement. 
I want to make clear that I have considered all of Westerbys  submissions  on this issue and 
that I have  carefully  taken  everything  it has said into consideration. It remains  my view that it 
is appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby  to compensate Mr W to the full 
extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to Westerbys failings. And, taking into 
account the combination of factors Ive set out above, I am not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that Westerby is 
liable to pay to Mr W.    
Ref: DRN777041838Mr W taking responsibility for his own investment decisions 
I note the point is made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for their own 
investment decisions.  I have considered  the actions of Mr W in relation  to the mitigation of 
loss, in the section below.  Beyond  that, I am satisfied that it would not be fair or reasonable 
to say Mr Ws actions  mean he should  bear the loss arising as a result of Westerbys  failings. 
Mr W took advice from a regulated advisor  (albeit  one acting outside the permissions it held 
 a fact unknown to Mr W), and used the services of a regulated  personal  pension provider, 
Westerby. I am satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, it is fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mr W for the loss he has suffered. I do not think it would be 
fair to say in the circumstances that Mr W should suffer the loss because he ultimately  
instructed the investments to be made. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby has said that Mr W's decision to retain  his investments in November 2014 has led 
directly to his inability to redeem the remainder of the funds. Westerby expects Mr W would 
have recovered  his funds in their entirety had he requested a redemption  at that time.
However, I remain of the view that it is fair to take account of any amount Mr W recovered as 
a result of the redemption  request he made following Westerbys letter  of 23 December 2015 
but that there was nothing else Mr W could or should reasonably have done to have reduced 
his losses. 
I do not think it fair to say Mr W should have made  a redemption  request when Westerby 
wrote to him in November  2014.  That letter required Mr W to seek advice, and urged  him to 
contact his financial advisor, Abana. It seems Mr W did this, and was advised to keep the 
investments. In these  circumstances, I remain of the view that it is not fair to say Mr W ought 
to have acted  differently.   I also remain of the view that Westerby  did not act in accordance  
with its regulatory  obligations in sending  this letter. Westerby  says its process was to check 
an advisory firms  permissions  every  time it received an application to open a SIPP,  and 
every time an advisors renumeration  was to be paid. So, by the time Westerby  wrote to Mr 
W in November 2014, it would have had many  opportunities to discover that Abana did not 
have the top up permissions  it needed  to give advice or make arrangements  on personal 
pensions in the UK. 
For Westerby to have  suggested that Mr W seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds he had invested in had come  to light, is a further failing of its regulatory  obligations  and 
the requirement to treat Mr W fairly.  In fact, it should  have alerted Mr W to the fact that 
Abana did not have the required  permissions and have suggested he seek independent 
advice from a regulated  advisor as a matter  of urgency. 
As I set out in my first provisional decision, it seems  the next contact  from Westerby  was in 
December 2015,  when it referred to a redemption request. In response  to this, Mr W asked  
for a redemption form, which he promptly completed, asking that any liquid assets the SIPP 
held to be sold. Westerby has not offered any further evidence  on this point. So, I remain of 
the view there is no more Mr W could or should reasonably have done before this time. 
All in all, I think it is fair to take account of the amounts paid to Mr W following his redemption 
request, but that no further reduction should  be made  to fair compensation on the basis  of a 
failure by Mr W to mitigate his loss. 
Ref: DRN777041839Putting things  right
My aim is to return Mr W to the position  he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK before accepting  Mr Ws SIPP application from it.  
If Mr W had sought  advice  from a different advisor  I think its more likely than not that the 
advice would have  been to stay in his OPS. I think it is very unlikely that another advisor,  
acting properly, would have advised Mr W to transfer away from his OPS. 
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate  fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position  Mr W would be in if he had not transferred from his OPS.  In 
summary, Westerby  should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer. 
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ws share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ws SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief  
and the effect  of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Westerby, as set out above, it should  have  the option of payment 
this redress being  contingent upon Mr W assigning any claim he may have against Abana,  to 
Westerby  but only in so far as Mr W is compensated here.  The terms of the assignment 
should require  Westerby to account  to Mr W for any amount it subsequently recovers against  
Abana that exceeds the loss paid to Mr W. 
I have explained  how Westerby should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Westerby must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance  of the decision.  This calculation should  
be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent  financial  
assumptions published at the date of that decision.  
Westerby may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ws contribution  history to the State  Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the employers scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Ref: DRN777041840The calculation should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the SIPP  currently, the 
£200 paid to Mr W after the investments were made and the amount he was paid in May 
2016, following  his redemption instruction. Any existing  value of the investment should be 
covered by the next step. 
Pay a commercial value  to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed.
The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2014. In order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented,  any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP.
To do this Westerby should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
the investments,  and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant  
investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments the value of it should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Westerby may ask Mr W to provide  an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from the investments. That undertaking should allow  for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr W may receive  from the investments and 
any eventual sums  he would be able to access from the SIPP.  Westerby will need  to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Pay an amount into Mr Ws SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal  the loss 
calculated in (1). 
I am not certain whether,  currently, Mr W can pay the redress  into a pension plan. If he can, 
the compensation should be reduced  to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr W could 
claim. The notional  allowance  should be calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax. For 
example, if Mr W is a basic rate taxpayer, the total amount  should  be reduced by 20%.
On the other hand, Mr W may not currently be able to pay the redress into a pension  plan.  
But had it been  possible to pay the compensation into the plan,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount to be paid to Mr W should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, 
if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement, the notional allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr W would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.  
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed  from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Westerby should  pay Mr W an amount equivalent to five 
years of future fees,  to ensure its unlikely Mr W will have to pay further fees for holding the 
SIPP. Five years should allow enough  time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP. As an alternative to this, Westerby  can 
agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by Mr Ws SIPP.  
Ref: DRN777041841interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment  must  be paid to Mr W or into his SIPP  
within 90 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest  must  be added to the compensation  amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within  90 days. 
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period  and so any period of time where the only 
outstanding item required  to undertake  the calculation  is data from the DWP may be added 
to the 90 day period  in which interest wont apply.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Westerby.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out 
above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited  pay Mr W the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above .
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby accepts the recommendation to pay the 
full loss as calculated above, Westerby should  have the option  of taking an assignment of Mr 
Ws rights in relation to any claim he may have against Abana, and an assignment of the 
right to any future payment Abana may make to Mr W. 
If the loss exceeds  £150,000 and Westerby does not accept  the recommendation to pay the 
full amount, any assignment of Mr Ws rights  should  allow him to retain all rights  to the 
difference between  £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above. 
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment  to Mr W for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment  should be met by Westerby.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770418