K821x#15Complaint
Mr E says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about five high-cost short-term credit instalment loans that Sunny provided  
to Mr E. Mr Es first loan was provided  in July 2016  and his last in September 2016. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Es complaint and thought that Sunny hadnt done anything  
wrong when providing  loans  1 to 3. But she also thought that Mr E shouldnt have been 
provided with loans 4 and 5. Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed to 
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is that Sunny 
needed to carry  out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending  was 
sustainable for Mr E before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I don't think Mr Es 
complaint about  loans  1 to 3 should  be upheld. But I do think  that Sunny unfairly provided 
loans 4 and 5 to him. Id like to explain why I think this is the case  in a little more detail.
Why I don't  think that Sunny acted unfairly when providing loans 1 to 3 
Sunny says it agreed to Mr Es applications  for these loans after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure.  It says the information Mr E provided  showed that hed be 
able to comfortably  make the repayments  he was committing to. And in these circumstances 
it was reasonable  to lend. 
Ref: DRN75475712Ive carefully thought  about what Mr E and Sunny have said.  Ive also read all of the 
correspondence Mr E has provided including his reference to the regulatory rules  contained  
in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  which Im familiar with. The first thing for me 
to say is that the relevant  rules at the time Mr E was provided with his loans were contained 
in Section 5.2 of (CONC). The version Mr E is referring to CONC 5A didnt  come  into force 
until November 2018. 
In any event, I think that its hugely important for me to explain that loans 1 to 3 were Mr Es 
first loans with Sunny.  So, although  I do accept that a pattern was beginning to emerge in 
respect of loans 1 to 3, I dont think that there  was an obviously established pattern in Mr Es 
borrowing needs at this stage. For example while Mr E did take loan 1 on the day he repaid 
loan 2, loan 1 was repaid well ahead of schedule. So I cant  reasonably say that Mr E had to 
borrow further in order to make his contractual commitments to Sunny. 
And while loan 2 was for a larger amount it wasnt a payday loan to be paid in a single  instalment.  
But rather  it was due to be repaid  more  gradually over six instalments. This is important, in this 
case, because  its directly relevant to what it was proportionate for Sunny to understand before 
deciding to lend and what it was fair for it to rely on when making  this decision.
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly  repayments, and the circumstances at the time 
loans 1 to 3 were  provided, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the 
information Mr E gave at these stages. 
I accept that Mr Es actual  circumstances  may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Sunny obtained. For example, Ive seen the 
information Mr E has provided showing that he was struggling to make his mortgage 
payments and Im sorry to hear that Mr E was struggling financially. But Sunny could only 
make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the time. And I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve  extended  into Sunny asking Mr E to evidence  his expenditure 
at the time of loans 1 to 3.  
Equally it's only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did 
something wrong. And, I dont think that Sunny  did anything wrong  in deciding to provide loans 
1 to 3 - it carried out proportionate checks even  though its looks like the information it mightve 
been provided with might  not have set out the true extent of Mr Es financial position.  
Sunny reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mr Es loan history at this stage, I 
dont think it was unfair for it to have provided loans 1 to 3. So Im not upholding the 
complaint about  these  loans.
Why I think that it was unfair  for Sunny to have provided loans 4 an 5 to Mr E.
While I dont think that there was an established  pattern to Mr Es borrowing needs when he 
was provided with loans 1 to 3, I do think there was such a pattern when Mr E was provided 
with loans 4 and 5. I say this because, in my view, by this point  a pattern which  I think had 
been beginning to emerge of Mr E taking out further loans not too long after repaying 
previous ones became established. And at this point  it mattered not what  Mr E said about his 
circumstances. Instead Sunny  had to get a thorough understanding  of his circumstances 
before lending to him. 
Ref: DRN75475713Had Sunny  had done this (as I think it would  have been proportionate to do for these loans 
bearing in mind all the circumstances  at the time) it would more likely than not have seen 
that Mr E was struggling financially  and he didn't have  sufficient  disposable income to be 
able to sustainably  repay these loans.  
So I think that Sunnys  failure to carry out proportionate checks  for loans  4 and 5, meant that 
it provided unsustainable loans. Mr E had to pay interest on charges on loans 4 and 5, which 
shouldnt have been provided to him. So I think that Mr E lost out because of what  Sunny did 
wrong and it should  put things right
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr E paid on all loans  4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
if after all adjustments have been  made  outstanding balances remain on loans 4 or 5, 
Sunny can deduct this from what it now needs to pay Mr E.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7547571