K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that the overdraft charges that Lloyds Bank plc has levied on his account for 
a number of years have  been excessive and unfair.
background
Mr W has had a Lloyds current account  with an overdraft facility  for some years; he has 
regularly made use of that facility.
Until November 2017 Lloyds charged  a combination of interest  and daily fees for using an 
overdraft facility  as well as additional  fees when an overdraft limit was exceeded.  From 
November 2017  it switched to charging  a fixed daily fee of 1p for every £7 borrowed. And its 
recently made some changes to those fees as well, although they remain a daily fee based  
on the amount  borrowed. The changes made  in November  2017 meant that Mr W was 
charged more than had previously been  the case.
Following that change,  Mr W complained to Lloyds, not just about  the overdraft charges from 
the end of 2017, but also about earlier charges going back to 2015. He worked out that hed 
been charged more  than £2,700, which he thought was too much. Lloyds said that the 
charges had been made in line with the account terms and that there had been  no error in 
the way theyd been applied. It invited Mr W to contact its customer support unit if he was in 
financial difficulty. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered it but broadly agreed  with what the bank  had said. By the time the investigator  
had finished considering Mr Ws complaint, he had arranged to repay the overdraft  by 
borrowing money from a family  member.  He didnt feel however  that this made  any 
difference to his complaint  that the overdraft charges were excessive.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the bank and the investigator  here.
Mr Ws main argument is that Lloyds overdraft charges  are and were excessive and unfair.  
On that point, the Supreme Court  decided in 2009 that default charges (meaning charges 
triggered when  a current account  is being  operated outside an agreed overdraft limit) were in 
effect part of the price  a customer agreed to pay for a range of services. The courts  couldnt 
therefore say those charges were unfair simply because they appeared to be high.  Since the 
end of 2017, Lloyds charges have been  the same, whether an account is within  or outside  
any agreed overdraft limit. I dont believe therefore  that I can properly say that the charges 
Mr W incurred  were unfair because of the level at which Lloyds set them. I appreciate  that 
Mr W feels strongly about this, but I cant,  in effect,  limit what  a bank chooses to charge for 
its services.
That isnt however the end of the matter. Financial businesses offering current accounts to 
individuals should provide  appropriate  support to individuals  in financial difficulty, adopting  
(in the words of the Standards of Lending Practice) a positive and sympathetic  approach. 
Ive considered therefore how those  requirements might apply to Mr Ws situation. 
Ref: DRN70890062Whilst Mr Ws account has regularly been overdrawn, I agree  with the investigator that this 
isnt necessarily an indication that he needs  assistance from the bank. It doesnt appear that 
hes suggested that, even though the banks  response to the complaint  invited  him to contact 
its customer support unit if he was having difficulty. And, whilst it may not be ideal for him, I 
can see that hes been able to borrow money from family to repay  his overdraft. In that 
sense, then, he was able to take steps  to avoid or reduce the overdraft charges.
Mr W did have  a significant  refund of overdraft charges in 2015, and it seems  that was to 
help him break a cycle of debt. Historically,  therefore, there were indications  that Mr W had 
struggled. But I dont  think  that necessarily means  that Lloyds should  have  taken that to 
mean that he needed more help. After all, Mr Ws main complaint was that the overdraft 
charges were too high and should be refunded   not that the bank should have been 
considering ways in which  it could help with financial difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint 
about Lloyds Bank  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7089006