K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about WFS Consulting Limited. He is unhappy that it continued  to 
receive commission from his pension plan when it was no longer advising him. Hes also 
unhappy that his policy was arranged  without a loyalty bonus.
background
The background to this complaint has been set out by the investigator  and I wont  repeat all 
of that here. In summary,  WFS advised Mr D in 2007 when he wanted to move his pension  
funds into a drawdown arrangement. WFS arranged a drawdown policy for him. In 2017  Mr 
D complained that commission had been paid to WFS when it no longer advised  him. This 
was despite rule changes by the regulator in 2012  which prohibited trail commission  
payments. He also complained that his policy had been arranged  without a loyalty  bonus.
WFS didnt uphold the complaint.  It explained  that it had not broken the rules on trail 
commission as the rules didnt prohibit ongoing payments which  were  already in place 
before 2012. However, it offered to repay commission  from 2015 onwards as its own 
practise was to stop receiving commission payments once clients had disengaged them. 
Although Mr D hadnt expressly disengaged them he hadnt responded to them for some 
time and so it would  normally have stopped receiving commission. It offered to refund 
commission of £639.24.
WFS said that not including a loyalty bonus was the right advice for Mr D given his 
circumstances. But it also said that Mr D had known from 2007 that the loyalty  bonus wasnt 
included in his plan and so the complaint had been  made too late.
Ultimately our investigator decided that the offer WFS had made in respect of commission 
payments was fair. It had not broken  the rules about  receiving commission  but it had made  
an error in its own internal  processes  by not stopping the payments. So it was fair that these 
should be refunded from 2015.
The investigator also said that the complaint about  the loyalty bonus had been made too 
late. It was made more  than six years after the advice  and more  than three  years  after Mr D 
knew or ought to have  known of cause for complaint. That is because  the plan provider 
wrote to him in 2007 telling him that the policy had been rewritten to exclude the loyalty 
bonus.
WFS accepted that view but Mr D didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that he had no reason 
to believe the advice not to include the loyalty bonus  was unsuitable in 2007.  WFS  had told 
him that an error  was being  corrected  and this letter from the provider only told him that this 
had been completed.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator about  the commission payments. I think the offer WFS  has 
made is fair. It wasnt  obliged to stop receiving this commission  after the rules changed in 
Ref: DRN783475922012 as the commission payment was already in place. But its accepted that had it applied  
its own internal procedure correctly the payments would have stopped sooner. The offer its 
made acknowledges this and so I dont  think it needs to do more.
I agree  that the complaint about the loyalty bonus  is outside our jurisdiction as it has been 
made too late. Mr D knew that the plan had been changed to exclude the loyalty  bonus in 
2007. Im satisfied that he had sufficient knowledge at that point to put him on enquiry about 
whether that was the best option for him. So this complaint has been made too late as it is 
more than three years after he knew or ought  to have  known  of cause for complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about the commission  payments  as WFS  has made a fair offer.
We cant consider the complaint about  the loyalty bonus as it has been made too late.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7834759