K822xComplaint
Mr Ms complained about two personal loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him in May 2017 and March  2018. He says the loans were unaffordable  
and he already had a number of payday  loans  elsewhere at the time.
Background
When it provided its file of papers on the complaint, 118 118 Money  agreed  it shouldnt have 
provided Mr M with a second  loan in March 2018.  And it agreed to put things  right in the way 
that we normally  would  when we uphold  complaint.  But 118 118 Money  didnt think  it had 
done anything  wrong, or treated Mr M unfairly, when  providing loan one in May 2017.  
As 118 118 Money agreed to put things right in the way wed normally  do when we uphold a 
complaint about  irresponsible lending,  we didnt look at whether loan two was fair and 
reasonably provided.  Instead we simply considered whether 118 118 Money treated Mr M 
fairly and reasonably when providing him with loan one. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and 118 118 Money  had told us. And she didnt 
think that 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided  loan one. So she didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint about  loan one. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  unaffordable/irresponsible lending on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide  Mr Ms complaint. 
118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr M before  providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I think  that what 118 118 
Money has already  agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint.  Id like to explain why in a little more  detail.
Loan one was provided to Mr M in May 2017.  This loan was for £1,250.00 in and was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £96.67.  The loan was repaid in March 2018 using 
some of the proceeds  Mr M was provided  with for loan two.
Ref: DRN77015422118 118 Money said it agreed to Mr Ms application after hed provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information  it gathered 
on Mr M suggested that hed be able to make the monthly payments. So in these 
circumstances it was reasonable  to lend. On the other hand  Mr M 118 118 Money  should  
have seen that his existing debts  meant  that he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. The information  
provided does  suggest  that Mr M was asked to provide details of his income and 
expenditure. And it does look like the information obtained, on paper at least, suggested     
Mr M could  make his monthly  repayments. 
That said,  I can see that there were a couple  of accounts on Mr Ms credit file which  probably  
could have and should have been probed  further. And I think  that 118 118 Money  ought  to 
have explored  this. But I dont know what any further probing, of Mr Ms circumstances, 
would more likely than not have uncovered because, despite being  asked to do so, Mr M 
hasnt provided  us with anything  to support what his financial circumstances were like, at the 
time. And bearing in mind  the relatively  small  amount of the monthly payment, I dont think 
the information on the credit check 118 118 Money  itself carried out, show that loan one was 
demonstrably unsustainable  for Mr M. 
Overall Im afraid that I simply dont have enough here to say 118 118 Money probing Mr Ms 
financial circumstances further  would more likely than not have shown that loan one 
shouldnt have been provided to Mr M. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint about  loan one and Im satisfied  what 118 118 Money has already agreed  to do to 
put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that what Madison CF UK Limited has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. So Im not 
requiring it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7701542