K820x#14complaint
Mr T says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in April 1999. The policy was 
added to Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the PPI during a phone call with a 
representative from MBNA. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr Ts main complaint  is that he wouldve declined the policy if hed been made aware  of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think MBNA made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and he chose  to take it. I say this 
because when he took out the PPI he had held his credit card for over a year already - 
without PPI. So, I think Mr T wouldve  known  it was open to him not to take out PPI if he 
didnt want to have  it. Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr T 
to remember everything  that was discussed  as this was so long ago. But, on balance, I think  
its more likely that during  the phone call Mr T decided he wanted to have the benefits  that 
PPI offered  him and he asked for it to be added on to his credit card account.  
MBNA didnt  give advice, so I dont  need to consider whether  the policy was suitable. But it 
still shouldve given  Mr T enough information to make  a proper decision about whether PPI 
was right for him.
Mr T had no other means such  as sick pay or savings with which to meet his repayments in 
the event he had to stop working unexpectedly. The cost of the policy was relatively low 
(compared to others in the market). It wouldve paid out for 12 months  if Mr T lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. And it couldve cleared his card balance  if he wasnt able 
to work as a result of accident or sickness. So, I can see why Mr T mightve considered the 
policy useful.
Although the policy didnt  cover some things, it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mr T. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy  exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr Ts decision to take out PPI.
I dont think MBNA properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might pay out if 
Mr T made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated  how much this would actually be 
on a month  to month basis, Mr T chose to take out the policy when  he didnt have to  so he 
seems to have wanted it. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that paying for the policy  was a 
problem for him when  he agreed to take it out. 
Ref: DRN70204932Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr T wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But MBNA Limited has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
MBNA Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because MBNA Limited didnt tell 
Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA Limited has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr T.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7020493