K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) about a whole-of-life (WoL) plan he 
was sold in 2007.  He says the plan is unsuitable  because it was never properly explained 
and doesnt provide the benefit he understood it would.
background
In 2007 Mr C went into his Lloyds branch and wanted to set up a life assurance plan that 
would cover funeral  expenses upon his death.   He was in his 70s,  owned his home 
mortgage free, and was recorded  as having a monthly disposable income of £170.
He was recommended a WoL plan providing a sum assured of £3,000 for a fixed monthly 
premium of £32.76.   The  premiums would be payable until Mr C reached the age of 90, after 
which time the payment of premiums  would stop, but the sum assured would be payable 
upon death at any time.
Mr C had originally been recommended  a plan that would provide increasing cover, but this 
was declined and the level plan described above  was taken out.
In 2018, represented by his daughter, Mr C complained to Lloyds about the plan.  In 
summary she said:
Mr C believed the plan would pay out £34,000  upon his death.
The plan wasnt properly explained,  and Mr C was unable to read or write.
He could end up paying more in premiums than the policy  will ever pay out.
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint and so Mr C referred his concerns to this Service.  One of 
our adjudicators reviewed  the complaint, but recommended it shouldnt be upheld.  He  said 
the plan had been suitable for Mr C and he couldnt  see that Lloyds had done anything 
wrong.
Mr Cs daughter disagreed.  She also responded stating the plan was held in Mr Cs name 
and hadnt been set up in trust; meaning that upon his death  no-one would be able to access 
the plan proceeds  to pay for funeral expenses.  
The adjudicator looked into this point,  but explained  that Lloyds had set out how the plan 
could be put in trust, but it had never been  acted  upon by Mr C.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I reached  the same  
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
I appreciate the point  made by Mr Cs daughter that he has paid more  in premiums than will 
ever be received from a claim  on the plan.  But its important to explain this plan is 
fundamentally much the same as any other  type of insurance.  That is, you are paying a 
premium to insure a risk.  If you claim against  the plan in the early years  of cover, the 
Ref: DRN71105652proceeds paid from the plan would be far greater  than the total of premiums paid.  However, 
as the years pass by and more premiums are paid, the proceeds paid out are less in 
comparison.
So whilst ultimately Mr C may have now ended up paying more for the cover than the £3,000 
sum assured he would receive, that doesnt  make  it unsuitable.  If every  plan paid out more  
than the premiums collected, a business wouldnt be able to continue offering that insurance.
I also understand Mr C had concerns about  the sum assured provided  by the plan more 
generally.  In his complaint to Lloyds he said that he believed the sum assured was £34,000, 
but only became  aware it was far less when he received  a recent annual statement.  Ive 
considered this point,  but am satisfied  its was clearly set out to Mr C at the time of sale and 
in the subsequent annual  statements.
So the focus for me in deciding this complaint is whether the plan itself was ever suitable  for 
Mr Cs needs at the time it was sold to him.
Mr C had wanted life cover to cover  funeral  costs.  A  WoL plan is appropriate for that need, 
as theres no specific term and so it needs  to be able to provide cover until death.  Provided 
Mr C maintains the payment of premiums  until the age of 90, the plan meets that objective.
It was also recorded  that the monthly  cost of maintaining the plan was affordable  and within 
his disposable  income.
Although its been  stated  Mr C was unable to read and write at the time of sale, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Lloyds was aware of that.  Mr C was known to the branch where the plan 
was recommended, but there are no recorded  instances of him requiring particular support 
on his facilities.  This  includes the fact there  was no power of attorney in place for anyone to 
support him if needed  though Lloyds has now offered to put one in place if required.
I also consider it important that Mr C didnt  accept the initial recommendation made to him 
for an increasing sum assured.  This  shows to me that he was engaged with the sale 
process and was comfortable declining something that he didnt want.
Mr Cs daughter raised concerns about  the plan not being appropriately set up in trust.  As 
pointed out by the adjudicator, the plan documentation does explain whats required to 
ensure the plan is set up in trust.  If this issue has not been resolved,  Id refer Mr C back to 
that documentation to ensure this is done (with  the support of his daughter  if needed).
I realise Mr C is likely to be disappointed  with the outcome of my decision, but I must 
reassure him that Ive considered everything impartially.   Having  done  so, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to do anything now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Ross Hammond
Ref: DRN71105653ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110565