K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  Claim 500 Ltd didnt  keep him updated about his medical negligence claim.
background
Mr F had a potential claim for medical negligence, and he contacted  Claim 500, an Accident 
Management Company (AMC), about this. As an AMC, Claim 500 werent  able to deal with 
the claim itself, and a firm of solicitors  were appointed to deal with the claim  in 2016. 
Mr F has complained that Claim  500 didnt keep him updated, didnt call him back when he 
asked them to, and didnt answer  all of his emails. Hes also unhappy with how long his 
claim is taking,  and he doesnt know what happening with it. He wasnt  happy with how 
Claim 500 dealt with his complaint, so he brought it to the Claims Management Ombudsman 
(a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said she thought the amount of contact Claim 500 had with Mr F during his 
claim was reasonable.  She said they were  in regular contact with Mr F and his solicitors. 
There were periods when  no updates were provided  by Claim 500, but the investigator didnt 
think theyd done  anything wrong  the solicitors  dealing  with the claim also had a 
responsibility to keep Mr F updated.  She didnt think Claim 500 were responsible for the 
actions of the solicitors.
The investigator hadnt seen any occasion  where  Claim  500 failed to call Mr F back  when he 
asked them to. She said theyd responded to all of his emails, and there was a period of time 
when they were trying unsuccessfully  to contact Mr F.
But the investigator also thought Claim 500 couldve managed  the claim better. Itd been 
struck out of court in February 2018 but Claim 500 hadnt told Mr F about this. So, although 
the claim could no longer  continue, the investigator thought  Claim 500 should  pay Mr F £100  
for the frustration and upset caused by them  not telling him this.
Claim 500 agreed with the investigator, but Mr F didnt. He was unhappy with the final 
outcome of his claim, and that hes had costs awarded against him. So hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will be a disappointment to Mr F; Ive reached  the same  overall  conclusions  as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr F is complaining about took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  wouldve taken. 
Ref: DRN73384412The medical negligence claim itself was dealt with by the solicitors,  not Claim 500. But Im 
only considering  the service provided  by Claim 500, not the solicitors. So my decision will 
only address what Claim 500 did or didnt do. Ive noted that Mr F has taken  his complaint 
about the solicitors  to the Legal  Ombudsman, and theyre dealing with this.
As an AMC I wouldnt expect Claim 500 to be able to deal with the claim. The role of an 
AMC in a situation like this is usually to introduce the customer to a solicitor, so I wouldnt 
expect them to have  any further involvement. However, Claim 500 have said we do try [to] 
keep a close eye on the progress of claims that we have recommended and to try and keep 
our customers regularly  updated. Ive not seen anything that defines  how often a regular 
update is. So I can see how Mr Fs expectation  of how often  hed be updated might differ 
from how often Claim  500 might provide updates.  But none of this alters the fact that its the 
solicitor whos responsible for updating  Mr F on the progress of his claim, not Claim 500.
Ive seen Claim 500s  case  notes and these show that Mr F was told at the outset hed 
receive regular updates  from the solicitors and from Claim 500. They also show  that Claim 
500 or the solicitors  provided monthly updates from March 2016 to November 2017, with the 
exception of June  2016 and September 2017  when no updates were provided. These 
updates were either by telephone call or letter, although some of them  were as a result  of Mr 
F contacting Claim 500. The case notes  also show that, when Mr F emailed Claim 500, they 
either responded to this or forwarded the email to the solicitors for them  to respond  direct.
The regular monthly updates seem  to have stopped in November 2017,  although  some  
updates were still being provided after this date  in January, February, April, June, July and 
October 2018. A case  note for 15 March 2018 also shows that Mr F asked for a call back,  
but I cant see that one was provided. The case notes also show that, between October 2018 
and February 2019, Claim 500 tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr F on multiple  occasions.  As 
I understand it, Mr Fs claim  was unsuccessful in February 2018. But Ive not seen anything 
to show me that Claim 500 made  Mr F aware  of this.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im in agreement with the investigator that Claim 500 couldve 
done better.  They stopped updating Mr F as regularly as they had in November 2017, there 
was at least one request  for a call back that wasnt actioned, and they didnt let him know 
about the outcome of his claim (although the solicitors shouldve  done this). The £100 
recommended to compensate Mr F for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by this is in 
line with what the Legal Ombudsman  wouldve  recommended in similar circumstances.  And 
Ive seen no compelling reason to change this, so Ill adopt the recommendation as my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN73384413my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Claim 500 Ltd must  pay Mr F 
£100 to recognise  the distress and inconvenience caused to him by their lack of regular 
updates.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7338441