K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about poor service from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) in 
connection with an online bank account payment.
background
Mr S wanted  to make a payment from his Halifax account to another building  society  account 
he has. The payment was picked up by Halifaxs security system and Mr S phoned to verify 
the payment.  At that point, he says Halifax told him the payment  had gone  through. But this 
wasnt the case, and Mr S only discovered  this a couple of days later.
Mr S complained to Halifax  about  the incorrect information hed been given. He asked  for 
compensation, but Halifax wouldnt  pay the amount he wanted. Mr S considers Halifaxs  
approach to his complaint was poor, and that he wasted  a lot of time trying to get a 
resolution.
Halifax accepted  that when Mr S called to verify the payment he shouldve  been told that he 
would need to make the payment again. Instead, hed been incorrectly  told that the payment 
had been successful. 
Halifax offered to pay £100  - being £50 for trouble and upset, £20 to cover his phone calls 
and £30 to cover loss of interest on the account  he was paying  the money to.
Our investigator thought Halifaxs offer was fair and reasonable, and in line with 
compensation awards by this service in complaints of a similar nature. The investigator  didnt  
consider Halifax should  compensate Mr S for the time taken to make the complaint, based 
on his hourly rate of £50.
The investigator said this service couldnt  compel Halifax to change its complaints process, 
or the security questions  it used for its security procedures.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence concerning  the payment in question, and from what  Ive seen Im 
not persuaded that it was paid twice from Mr Ss account. 
It seems  that when Mr S called to verify the payment (after it had been picked up by Halifaxs 
security systems)  he was told that the payment  had been successful  but this wasnt  the 
case. Instead, Halifax should have  told Mr S that he would need to make the payment again.
Its disappointing that Mr Ss complaint couldnt be resolved when he contacted Halifax after 
hed discovered  what had happened. I can appreciate his frustration  that he spent a long 
time on the phone trying  to get a satisfactory  resolution. So I can see why he might think that 
Halifax should compensate him for the time he spent pursuing his complaint. 
Ref: DRN73994452But when I take account of awards  by this service in complaints of a similar nature, I think 
£50 for the trouble and upset caused is fair and reasonable. Our awards are not designed to 
punish a business, and Im not persuaded that compensation for time spent making the 
complaint is appropriate in this case.  
Halifax has also offered  to pay £20 to cover the cost of Mr Ss phone  calls, and £30 for the 
interest lost on the account he was making the payment to. Again, and I think that is fair and 
reasonable.
I understand Mr S is unhappy with the questions Halifax  asks as part of its security  
procedures. But as the investigator  has already said, that is not something this service  can 
interfere with.  
Overall, from what Ive seen, there  are no reasonable  grounds on which I can uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Mr S to decide whether or not 
he wants to accept the £100  offered by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7399445