K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Firstly, Im sorry about the time it has taken to consider  this complaint and for any upset this 
mayve caused Mrs B. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs B bought the PPI policy in a meeting. Mrs B and NatWest havent been able to provide 
much detail about what was said in this meeting. And there isnt much  paperwork from the 
time of sale either. Thats understandable given the time that has passed.  But it means I 
dont know exactly what was discussed. So Ive looked at the information  we do have  
alongside Mrs Bs comments.  Ive also thought  about what I know  about NatWests  sales  
processes to help me make my decision. I appreciate that I dont have full information  from 
the time of sale. But I do have to make a decision on what I think is the most likely to have 
happened, given what I have. 
As Mrs B is aware I dont have the application form from the time of sale.  But NatWest  has 
provided a copy of the form she wouldve  completed to buy the PPI. Having looked at all this, 
I dont have enough to say that its likely NatWest told Mrs B that she needed to buy a PPI 
policy. Overall  I think its likely that NatWest made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  
Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial commitment.  If Mrs B couldnt work  
for a long period of time she may have  found this difficult to pay. As the mortgage was 
secured on her home,  she couldve potentially lost her property if she fell into financial 
difficulties.
The PPI wouldve paid Mrs Bs mortgage payment if she couldnt work due to illness,  or she 
lost her job. The payment  wouldve been in addition to any employer, or unemployment 
benefits, she might have received if this happened. It couldve provided a payment for up to 
12 months per claim. 
Ref: DRN75885692Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And she chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs B paid on her policy   and whether NatWest  
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mrs Bs policy  was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Bs commission was less than half the cost of 
the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs B back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019. 
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588569