K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) made  her a joint account holder on 
her late mothers  bank  account without her knowing  and without explaining  that she would 
become liable for the overdraft.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 4 March 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to uphold Miss Ws complaint.  I invited 
both parties to send  any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. Miss W 
didnt reply to my provisional  decision and Halifax accepted it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W didnt submit  any further arguments for me to consider and Halifax accepted my 
provisional decision. So I see no reason to change my conclusion from that set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My provisional decision was that Halifax should only pursue Miss W to repay half of the 
increase in the account overdraft from 23 November 2015 - the date she was added  as
a joint account  holder  - until 29 May 2018  - when  she notified Halifax of her mothers death. 
Halifax has calculated this amount to be £110.25.  
Halifax asked that if Miss W accepts my decision,  this amount be paid within 60 days. If 
theres any reason  that Miss W cant do this, she should tell Halifax this as soon as she can. 
Halifax has also explained that it would report any outstanding amounts that havent been 
paid by Miss W on her credit file. Halifax  is entitled to do that here,  as my decision  is that 
Miss W should  still pay half of the outstanding balance, so this would be accurate. But I 
would still expect it to remove  any reference  to this particular account and its conduct from 
her credit file. As I dont think its fair for Miss W to be disadvantaged by the status of this 
account for the reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN73362612my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
I order Bank of Scotland plc to 
only pursue Miss W for repayment  of £110.25  of the amount owing on Miss Ws bank 
account, and
remove the overdraft,  and any associated information relating to this account, from Miss 
Ws credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73362613Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) made her a joint account holder  on her late 
mothers bank account without her knowing and without  explaining that she would become liable for 
the overdraft.
background
Miss Ws late mother, Mrs W, was a Halifax customer and had a bank account with a £2,000 overdraft 
limit. On 23 November 2015, Halifax added Miss W as a joint account holder on Mrs Ws account  and 
issued her a debit card.  Halifax doesnt have any records of what was discussed  or signed that day. 
At this time the account  was approximately  £1,553 overdrawn.
Miss W says that she and Mrs W had visited their local branch to explain that Mrs W had terminal 
cancer and ask for Miss W to have  access to the account. Mrs W wanted Miss W to help her with her 
banking because she would often be in hospital. Miss W says she thought  Halifax had given  her third 
party access to the account. She says she hadnt  been told she was becoming a joint account  holder 
and responsible for any borrowings on the account.
Miss W used  her debit  card and online banking regularly from then on. One copy  of the bank 
statements, addressed to both Miss W and Mrs W, was sent to the home they shared. Miss W says 
her mother opened the paper statements  and she didnt  see them.  Miss W received online  messages  
and text messages related to the account.
Sadly, Mrs W passed  away in April 2018. Miss W says that she only found  out she was a joint 
account holder and responsible  for the debt when  she went  into the local branch to tell them about her 
mothers death. The account had been consistently overdrawn since she was made  a joint account 
holder. Miss W complained to Halifax, saying she hadnt been told what was happening and the bank  
shouldnt have allowed her to take on the debt without explaining it to her.
Halifax didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint because it said she would  have been aware  of the situation 
from the information she received and how she operated the account. She had used online banking - 
which she couldnt have  done with third party access   and had continued to use the account  after 
Mrs W passed  away. The account has now been transferred into Miss Ws sole name and Halifax  has 
asked her to repay  the borrowings.
Miss W didnt  agree with Halifaxs decision and brought her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. An investigator considered  the case but Miss W and Halifax couldnt  agree on 
the outcome, so it was referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what  happened, I have based  my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence.
Ref: DRN73362614Halifax argues  that Miss W mustve known she was a joint account  holder from the way she used the 
account. She regularly used her debit card, including at shops where transactions could be 
considered personal spending by her. Some payments were made after her mothers death, although 
these were limited apart  from scheduled direct debits. But Im not persuaded  that this means Miss W 
knew she was a joint account  holder.  She says she was helping her mother out while she was unwell 
and I understand they lived together, so I think its entirely possible she made  regular purchases as 
part of this arrangement and wouldve acted  similarly if thered been a third party mandate in place 
instead.
For the same reason, I dont think  its reasonable to say that Miss W would have known she was a 
joint account  holder because she was named on statements and she received online banking and text 
notifications about the account. Only one paper  statement  was sent to the Ws shared  home each 
month, and Miss W says her mother opened the statements  so she didnt see them. The text 
messages were clearly automated and Im not persuaded by Halifaxs argument that she mustve 
known she was receiving them as the joint account holder, rather than a named contact on the 
account, in the circumstances. Miss W already had online banking access and statements for her 
other Halifax accounts  over this period, so Im not convinced she wouldve been surprised to also see 
information for her mothers  account  if she thought she had a third party  mandate.
The evidence  here is inconclusive but Miss W has been plausible and consistent in her version of 
events here. Because of this, I dont accept that how Miss W used the card,  or that she received 
account information, are good enough reasons to say she knew she was a joint account holder.  Her 
surprise to discover the account was in her name seems genuine and understandable in the 
circumstances and Im persuaded  that she didnt have any awareness of this prior to receiving  the 
contact that prompted this complaint.
From the evidence, I think Halifax expects Miss W to understand  the difference  between  the types of 
capacity in which accounts can be held. But I think  that it was Halifaxs  responsibility to make Miss W 
aware of the options available to her when she wanted to start helping Mrs W with the account. What 
Id expect here is that Halifax clearly  explained what was happening when  it added her to the account 
in the way it did.
Its argued that Miss W wouldve known from what she could do  such as using online banking - that 
she was a joint account  holder. But my understanding  is that this was the first time Miss W had been 
in this situation  and she wouldnt have known what to expect unless Halifax explained  to her  and 
theres no evidence that it did this. For this reason, I dont agree that Miss Ws usage of the account 
alone is proof  that she understood and accepted  the liability of a joint account here.
Unfortunately theres  no documentation to evidence  what was discussed. Halifaxs  process  guide 
says that in this situation,  a new overdraft facility letter  should  be issued to all parties  - but Halifax has 
no record of this being  sent. The process guide  also says that if the account is overdrawn, the new 
account holder must be told they will become liable  for the debt  but Halifax also hasnt got any 
records of this being discussed with Miss W. Halifax has a record of an internal check  to see if Miss W 
could be added as an extra  account  holder,  but cant confirm if this was discussed with her or carried  
out by the branch staff member.
It seems unusual to me that the staff member wouldve carried out these checks  but not kept any 
record of the other steps in the process in Miss Ws case, if theyd been carried  out as they shouldve 
been. The lack of paperwork, combined with the other evidence, leads me to doubt that Halifax  
followed these internal processes when it added Miss W as a joint account holder.
Ref: DRN73362615As Ive said,  the evidence  here is inconclusive  and, in reaching my decision,  Ive considered  what  I 
think was most likely to have  happened on the balance of probability. And In the circumstances here, I 
think its very unlikely that Miss W wouldve agreed to become  a joint account holder  with 
responsibility for the debt when she couldve  helped her mother with a third party  mandate 
arrangement. This wouldve  allowed her to use the account  although only through  the branch - 
without responsibility  for the debt. So, on balance  and when taking this together with the other 
evidence, I find that she either  didnt  know that she was being  made  joint account holder,  or the 
consequences werent explained to her clearly here. For these reasons, I uphold  Miss Ws complaint.
In considering what the appropriate outcome  would be here, I think  it would be unfair for
Miss W to be held liable for the entire overdraft balance, because I dont think she knowingly  accepted 
liability for it. In particular, for the overdraft  balance that already existed when she was added as a 
joint account  holder. But I also see that some of Miss Ws spending on the account  mightve  been for 
her personally  and that some of the direct debits wouldve been for bills in the house she shared  with 
her mother.  So I think its fair that she does repay some of what she spent  here.
I think  a reasonable outcome in the circumstances  here is for Miss W to be liable for half of any 
increase in the overdraft  balance from 23 November  2015 - the date she was added  as a joint 
account holder - until 29 May 2018 - when she notified Halifax of her mothers death and became 
aware she was a joint account holder. I say half because where Miss W hasnt clearly separated  what 
was personal  spending for her and what was for her mother. So I think  this represents a fair amount 
that recognises the fact the account was used for the benefit for both of them,  even if Miss W didnt 
understand in what capacity.
I think  its important to explain to Miss W that this decision  doesnt prevent Halifax from possibly 
pursuing its remaining  debt from her mothers estate.  My decision is only considering the individual 
complaint that Miss W brought to us here.
I also think  Halifax should  remove the account from Miss Ws credit file. I dont think its an accurate 
record of her position as a creditor  to have a debt recorded against her that Im not persuaded she 
knew she was responsible for. If she was, I think she wouldve acted  differently in how she used the 
account. It follows that I dont think she should be disadvantaged by having this recorded on her credit 
file.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I propose to uphold Miss Ws complaint for the reasons  given. To put 
things right, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should only require Miss W to pay half of any 
increase to the overdraft balance between 23 November  2015 and 29 May 2018 and should remove 
the account from her credit  file.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336261