K822xcomplaint
Ms T is unhappy with the way her home  insurance claim for water  damage was dealt with by 
UIA (Insurance) Limited.
background
In July 2017 whilst Ms T was having  a worktop  replaced by workmen they dropped a 
hammer on the floor and cracked a tile. When  it was uplifted they discovered that there was 
water beneath the tiles. Ms T made a claim to UIA who arranged for trace  and access to 
discover the source of the leak.  This proved to be difficult and a strip out of the tiling had to 
take place. UIA said following the report from its contractors that it would pay the cost of 
reinstatement of the tiling but wasnt satisfied the damage suffered was an insured event, 
since the water appeared to be coming through a defective shower door. Ms T was adamant 
that this wasnt the reason for the water  damage and her whole kitchen needed replacing. 
She instructed her own plumber who discovered  the source of the leak to be a pipe 
underneath the kitchen floor. Repairs to the pipework took place and then the repairs to the 
kitchen and other rooms  were discussed.  This took the claim up to July 2018.
UIA instructed contractors  to carry out repairs,  but after disagreements with two such 
contractors UIA said that it would  be paying Ms T a cash settlement  to allow  her to use her 
own contractors. It took into account that Ms T had been without cooking  facilities  or water  in 
her kitchen since the initial strip out. It agreed an enhanced disturbance  allowance  payment 
of £40 per person per day, and paid this up until February 2019, by which time it expected 
her to have  some facilities back. It agreed  to pay the cost of its proposed  repairs to the 
kitchen but not for complete renewal of the kitchen. It paid most  of those payments by 
February 2019. 
Ms T then advised that because the escape of water  had taken so long to diagnose, dry rot 
had set in in the wooden  flooring  in the rooms  adjacent to the kitchen. UIA initially said it 
wasnt liable for any repairs due to dry rot, but after considering Ms Ts complaint further it 
agreed to pay the cost of this, which it did in June  2019. Ms T submitted a claim  for further  
expenses. UIA agreed, and then paid a 50% contribution towards  the cost of a new kitchen. 
As I understand from Ms T it paid for storage of her items up until they were returned in 
September 2019, although the work  wasnt completed until December 2019. UIA also 
offered to pay £500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience which  Ms T rejected 
(although I believe  this has also now been paid).
Apart from being dissatisfied  with the compensation amount,  Ms T set out a list of her 
expenses which she says UIA hasnt addressed despite in some cases having said it would. 
In particular she has pointed out that she was without cooking facilities for another ten 
months after the last disturbance allowance payment.  UIA said that it would be prepared  to 
consider this but in light of the fact that it had paid a considerably enhanced payment until 
February 2018, expected her to justify  it paying more with receipts  etc. Our investigator put 
this list of expenses  to UIA but it said it has already paid a sufficient amount.
Ref: DRN78479802I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that UIA should pay Ms Ts further expenses plus 
interest, and a further payment of disturbance allowance and that UIA should consider 
making a payment for the additional cost of the reinstatement of the lean-to. sitting  room, 
and hallway due to the dry rot. And reconsider the damage to the dishwasher and fridge 
freezer.
Ms T responded to my decision, Ill set out below her points and my response.
UIA responded and said it would agree to payment of the extra expenses and disturbance 
allowance and further compensation. With regard to the damaged items it would ned to see 
photographs to establish if this was cosmetic damage and could be repaired. With regard to 
any further payments  for dry rot, it wasnt prepared to reconsider these. This was on the 
basis that damage caused  by dry rot is excluded under the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I said:
As a preliminary point I understand that Ms T obtained from us copies of the information  
sent to us by UIA, including its business  file. Ms T has indicated  that she doesnt believe that 
UIA has sent us everything it has in regard to the claim, including a lot of 
telephone/attendance notes. I have reviewed all the papers and bearing in mind  that our 
function is to resolve complaints informally rather than going  into each and every possible 
aspect of the claim, I think Ive seen sufficient evidence to enable me to reach  a fair decision. 
I would add that I can understand it if she found  internal documents  expressing opinions  on 
her claim to be upsetting,  this would be because such documents werent intended  for 
presenting to her. They werent rude about  her but just expressed forthright opinions.  I dont 
intend to consider further the tone of the documents.
Ms T believes  UIA (including its contractors) had a negative attitude  towards  her. She asks 
that I take this into account as it informed how she was perceived and consequently  treated 
by UIA and its contractors. 
I appreciate that that is her perception, but I cant say anything further about this. I havent  
seen anything in the evidence to suggest  that UIA treated  her unfairly  or that it had a 
negative attitude.
In my provisional findings I said:
I think  Ms T is owed  some further expenses. I say this because  they appear  to me to be the 
normal costs that arise in such a claim and UIA doesnt  really have any reason to dispute 
them. I should say at this stage that in my view, having accepted that it would pay for the dry 
rot to be remedied and having  paid the invoice for that, UIA cant really  dispute associated 
payments arising  out of that or any further delay caused by the dry rot repairs.. Those 
expenses are:
Removal of rubbish from the garden £330
Removal and refitting of radiator £120
Freezer food* £250
Ref: DRN78479803Dry food which went out of date** £273   
Total £973
*although not directly damaged by the escape of water, UIA agreed to consider a payment
 for this. 
**as Ms T had no cooking facilities for such a long time and as no alternative temporary 
facilities were  offered to her I think its reasonable that UIA pay this.
tracing and accessing  leaks
After UIA unsuccessfully tried to trace and access the leak in the pipes, Ms T paid plumbers 
and engineers costs  which did trace the leak. UIA accepted the claim on this basis and I 
think it should pay those  costs which amount to £275. In addition  as part of tracing the leak, 
Ms T was advised to get her boiler  checked.  This was done and the boiler was found to be 
operating correctly. A call out charge of £90 applied which  I think  UIA should pay.
electrical fire
Ms T says that she had an electrical  fire which burned out a socket, and she has shown us 
photos of this. Since this happened  while UIAs contractors were doing  work, but doesnt  
appear to have been investigated to any great extent by UIA I think  on balance that it should 
pay the cost of repair amounting to £280. 
Ms T said that to be added to the expenses is the cost for parking permits for the contractors 
of £154 which I think is reasonable.  UIA has confirmed it will make the other payments.
In my provisional findings I said:
disturbance  allowance
As Ive noted, this was paid up until February 2019.  Ms T continued to be without cooking 
facilities until December 2019. There was a delay in carrying out the repairs whilst the dry rot 
was dealt with. And UIA appears  to have accepted that it would consider further payments 
for this. Certainly I cant see that any other option  was considered  for providing temporary 
facilities. I think it should pay a disturbance  allowance  for the period from February to 
December 2019.  But UIA did say that it would only consider an enhanced payment if Ms T 
provided evidence  of living expenses. Whilst I appreciate that this was previously agreed at 
£40 per person  per day (two people),  I cant hold UIA to that agreement  for the continuing  
payment. So I propose that in accordance with the normal industry rate it pay such an 
allowance for 40 weeks  at the rate of £10 per person per day. I should point out that a 
disturbance allowance is intended to represent  the extra cost (over and above  normal  
expense) of not being able to prepare food at home. 
Ms T says the disturbance allowance is not an enhanced one but rather  one based on her 
expenses as calculated  and agreed  by UIA head of claims. She believes it should  continue 
to pay based on what had been  agreed.
It was UIA who described this as an enhanced payment. And, based  on the industry rate for 
disturbance allowance, it is an enhanced payment.  And the standard  rate is set so that 
consumers dont have  to go to the trouble of proving their expenses. So it is only fair that if a 
payment is sought  in excess of the normal daily rate, that proof  of such  expenditure is 
produced. I can see that the enhanced payment  was agreed and paid, but I dont think  it 
Ref: DRN78479804reasonable for such a rate to continue to be paid without such evidence. I think  UIA should 
pay the £10 per person per day rate. If Ms T wants to provide evidence  to UIA she should 
approach it directly.
In my provisional findings I said:
extra payments for dry rot
In response to her complaint UIA asked Ms T to send in the additional cost for the re-
establishment of the lean-to sitting room,  and hallway due to the dry rot. Ms T says it hasnt 
paid this. Apart from giving us an overall  cost for the dry rot work, I havent  seen  the precise 
details of this additional  cost. I propose that UIA reconsider this point. If Ms T, in response to 
this provisional decision,  can advise me of the exact  cost of this, with invoices, I will consider  
awarding a payment for this in my final decision.
I dont think theres any question of UIA now being  able to reasonably  cite the exclusion for 
dry rot as a reason for not making the extra payments for this. Firstly  our approach  is that 
where the dry rot is a result of a claim for escape  of water its not reasonable to apply any 
exclusion for dry rot. Secondly, as appears  to be the case here and as has in my view been 
accepted by UIA, the policy exclusion doesnt apply anyway  where  the dry rot is a result of 
the way the claim  was handled. I made this point in my provisional findings   UIA cant  
dispute this now.  I said that it should  reconsider this but I meant  in relation to the 
assessment of the actual costs incurred, not its liability  for repair. Ms T has produced the 
invoices for this work. Given the amount of those  invoices I think it fair that UIA consider 
what it should be paying, but not its liability for this. I will ask for the invoices to be sent to 
UIA, if it hasnt seen these.
In my provisional findings I said:
damage to items in storage
UIA has said Ms T should contact the company  who arranged  the storage  directly about this. 
However I dont think thats fair, UIA contracted the company  and is liable if any items were 
damaged. I understand that the damaged items  are a wooden  table (scratched and legs 
broken) cost of repair  £300 (unless Ms T is able to show  this cost more), and kitchen door 
handles £192.  UIA should  pay those costs. Ms T also says a dishwasher and fridge freezer 
were damaged. I dont  propose to make  UIA pay the cost of replacement items, as Ms T has 
requested. Instead  it should reconsider those items and assess whether they can be 
repaired or if they need to be replaced. 
UIA needs to see photographs of the damaged items so that it can consider whether to pay 
for a repair or replacement  I think thats  reasonable.
In my provisional findings I said:
cost of replacement pipes
Ms T advised that UIAs contractors smashed  up the pipes when excavating the floor.  She 
has had to pay £860 for these. UIA says the pipes had multiple  leaks  and would have had to 
be replaced any way. In an escape of water claim the policyholder would normally be 
expected to pay for the replacement or repair of any leaking  pipes. Unless therefore Ms T 
can show that the replaced  pipes werent  leaking before  the floor was excavated and/or that 
Ref: DRN78479805she would  have been able to repair them at a lesser cost but for UIAs damage,  I dont 
propose to award  the cost of this.
Ms T contends that the damage done that rendered the replacement of all the pipes rather  
than the point of the slow leak,  is the responsibility  of the contractors who did the work.  She 
accepts it was her responsibility to pay for the replacement of the pipes but believes UIA 
should pay towards this.
As Ive seen  no expert evidence that the pipes could have been repaired  rather than 
replaced entirely, Im not satisfied that it would be reasonable to make any award  in respect  
of this.
In my provisional findings I said:
surveyors report
Ms T paid over £300 for a surveyors report. UIA has said it didnt agree to such  a cost and 
the employment of a chartered surveyor was unnecessary. Ive read the report  which  gives  a 
preliminary view as to what was needed.  It didnt  assess  the damage  or the workmanship. 
As the policy allows for such  payments only where agreed in advance and as the report  
didnt take the matter  any further forward I dont agree  that UIA should  pay this cost.
granite worktops
UIA allowed £3,000  for this. Ms T says this is insufficient. UIA is entitled to assess the matter 
in line with what it assesses is reasonable, and it has already increased the payment from 
the amount previously  offered.  I dont propose to make  a further award.  
paint
The cash  amount paid to Ms T included an assessed payment for painting.  Ms T says as the 
colour was made by a specialist mixed paint  she should be paid more. My view is that in an 
overall settlement  thing  like paint  have to be assessed at contractors rates as a part of that 
settlement. I think the amount paid was reasonable and dont  intend  to make a further  award 
in respect of this.
cost of kitchen
Ms T seeks the full cost of replacing her kitchen. She asserts  that she was unable  to find a 
contractor willing to reinstall the kitchen. UIA has paid 50% of Ms Ts cost.  Frequently in 
escape of water cases consumers understandably feel they are entitled  to a new kitchen. 
But where it is assessed that the kitchen can be reinstalled, the insurers liability  under the 
policy is to renew or replace damaged items, so if the kitchen wasnt damaged by the water 
its not reasonable to expect it to pay for replacement. Some  contractors may be reluctant  to 
reinstall a kitchen but I dont accept that if UIA assessed that the kitchen could be reinstalled,  
a contractor couldnt be found  to do this. I dont propose to make any further award  in 
respect of this.
Ms T had to take out a loan to pay for a new kitchen. I can understand the need for this, but 
in light of UIAs assessment of the work  needed  I cant justify it making any further  
contribution towards  the loan payments (capital  or interest).
Ref: DRN78479806Ms T says she felt forced to employ  the surveyor on the advice of the builder. This was in
the face of UlAs  unwillingness  to provide a fully itemised breakdown of how it decided the 
cost of the kitchen  repair. Given  that UIA never provided this information, she, therefore, 
thinks it was reasonable  to start the process and for it to reimburse the cost. She says it 
wasnt taken forward as the dry rot was then discovered and UIA said it had made its final 
offer.
If Ms T decided to employ a surveyor to check the costs (although he never did so) that was 
her decision.  And insurers generally dont provide itemised breakdowns  of their contractors 
costs as its rates are regarded as commercially confidential.  Im not persuaded that its 
reasonable to award the surveyors  costs.
Neither party has commented on the other issues mentioned above, so those remain my 
findings.
In my provisional findings I said:
time spent on visits
Ms T says she had to take time off to be present for multiple visits by surveyors and other  
people which she asserts werent  necessary.  She believes  she should be compensated for 
this. 
This was by all accounts a difficult claim to deal with. And I can see that the contractors 
changed in respect  of both the strip out and repairs because  Ms T was unhappy  with their 
work. Further visits were needed to assess the cost of a cash  settlement. In any insurance 
claim the policyholder  has to make time to deal with it and that cost isnt recoverable. If extra 
time was taken and this was unnecessary I may consider a further award if Ms T is able to 
prove she lost money by taking time off work.  But I cant  on present evidence see that 
unnecessary visits took place or that Ms T lost money. I propose to address any extra 
inconvenience in the overall award of compensation.
cost of letters
Ms T claims for the cost of telephone  calls, letters  and printing in making  her complaint. We 
dont normally make awards for these costs separately from a general  compensation award.  
While I appreciate that Ms T has spent a lot of time and effort  in making  her complaint Im 
not persuaded that I need to make a separate award in respect of these items.
excess
Ms T paid a total excess  of £250.  As she paid this to the contractors who failed to diagnose 
the leak and to the initial strip out contractors (£100 to one and £150 to the other)  she 
believes this should  be refunded. An excess is part of any insurance  claim- it is the payment 
all policyholders  have  to make under the terms of the policy.  Whilst it was paid to contractors 
who Ms T didnt believe did a proper job, it should  be regarded  as part of the overall  claim. 
Ms T hasnt been asked  to pay any further excess. 
Ms T asserts that the extra visits were necessary because of the contractors incompetence 
and that her time should be compensated. Ms T believes she has spent  over £600 on 
correspondence so should be compensated for this.
Ref: DRN78479807Im not persuaded to change my view. I still havent  seen  evidence that Ms T lost money  (its 
not reasonable to make  an award  based on a notional value for her time). While I appreciate  
that there  was a cost involved in correspondence,  generally consumers have to bear the 
cost of making complaints. If its excessive due to failures of the insurer  I will take the 
general inconvenience of it into account  (see my compensation section which  follows)  but 
not usually the physical  costs of it.
In my provisional findings I said:
compensation
UIA has paid £500 compensation. Ms T doesnt  accept  this and believes she should  receive  
the maximum award for the distress  and inconvenience caused to her and her family. 
I see that the initial track and trace took a long time.  Ms T had to chase up what was 
happening on several occasions. The leak was wrongly diagnosed and Ms T had to employ 
her own contractors to trace the leak before UIA would accept the full claim. This caused  a 
years delay in getting the repairs assessed  and under  way.
Ms T believes  the contractors walked  off the job unnecessarily  and she was forced into a 
cash settlement. On reviewing the notes of that I see that Ms T disagreed with the 
contractors over the under floor heating and the electrical rating of the replacement. The 
contractors clearly felt uncomfortable  with the way that she spoke to them and took the view 
they could no longer  continue. As other contractors had also been removed from the job 
against UIAs advice  the decision was made that UIA wasnt  able to use its own contractors. 
Whilst I understand Ms Ts position I cant say that UIA wasnt  justified in its approach. I dont 
therefore hold it responsible for the further  delays caused by this.
In respect of the dry rot UIA initially took the view it wasnt  liable for this but later changed its 
mind and made a full payment.  As the repairs were largely in Ms Ts hands after December 
2018 and as UIA has made or will be making further payments for storage, disturbance 
allowance and further issues relating to the dry rot I wont extend the compensation payment 
to take account  of any matters post December  2018.
For the period  before  then, I think  there were long and serious delays in both assessing the 
leak and accepting the claim.  Ms T was without a kitchen for most of this time. I propose to 
increase the compensation award  to £750.
Ms T strongly  denies that she made the contractors  uncomfortable and maintains that she 
asked polite questions  which  were met with rude bullying  and petulant behaviour on the part 
of the contractors. She does not think that £750 in any way shape or form begins  to address 
the terrible time she and her family  unduly  suffered.
I understand Ms Ts recollection of events but Im mindful that contractors dont generally 
walk off a job because  they were asked polite  questions. Whatever the reasons for it and 
whether or not they were justified the contractors felt uncomfortable and UIA thought  it fair to 
make a cash settlement.
Ive explained  my award and the time period it relates to. Im satisfied it is a fair and 
reasonable award in the circumstances  of this complaint. It is in line with awards  we have 
made in similar cases. 
Ref: DRN78479808Apart from where Ive set out above, I remain satisfied  by my provisional findings which are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require UIA (Insurance)  Limited to:
Make the following  cash payments:
removal of rubbish  £330
removal/ refitting radiator £120
freezer food £250
dry food £273   
trace and access costs £275
boiler £  90
electrical fire costs £280
repair of table £300
kitchen door handles £192
parking permits £154
total          £2,364
Make  a payment  for disturbance allowance for 40 weeks at the rate of £10 per person 
per day, a total of £5,600.
Increase the compensation paid to £750,  so making a further  payment  of £250.
Pay interest. As payments were all incurred at different times and for different reasons, 
pay interest*** on the cash payments listed (including the disturbance allowance) 
from15 December 2019 until payment  by UIA. This will be simple  interest  at the rate of 
8% per year.
Reconsider payment  of the amount of the additional cost of the re-establishment of the 
lean-to. sitting room, and hallway due to the dry rot, but not its liability. 
Reconsider the damage to the dishwasher  and fridge freezer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2021.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
**UIA (Insurance) Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  
Ms T request it, UIA should  provide her with a certificate  showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if 
appropriate, she can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN7847980