K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) incorrectly diagnosed a fault with his 
boiler.
background
Mr S has a home  insurance  policy with a well know provider. He also has home emergency 
cover included, provided by IPA.
In May 2018, Mr Ss boiler stopped working.  He called IPA and it sent one of its contractors, 
who Ill refer to as B, to his home  to see if the problem could be fixed. B was unable  to fix 
the boiler as they said a number of new parts  were  required that would need to be ordered. 
The boiler was switched off and Mr S was provided with an immersion heater  until it could be 
fixed.
B contacted IPA and said in their opinion  the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). 
This was due to the work that was required and it couldnt guarantee it could fix the boiler.  
IPA explained  this to Mr S. It also paid him £500  towards the cost of replacing his boiler as 
per the policy  terms.
Mr S arranged for a new boiler to be fitted.  Whilst replacing the boiler  a different fault was 
found to what  had been diagnosed, which had caused the hot water and heating to stop 
working. The fault was with a 2-port valve.
Mr S complained to IPA. He said he had had to pay to replace a boiler that didnt need  
replacing. He asked IPA to cover the full cost of the boiler. He also asked it to pay for the 
increase in his electricity  bills caused  by having to use an immersion heater.
IPA looked into what had happened. It said that although B had not identified the issue with 
the 2-port valve, it had identified a number of other  faults with the boiler. And these still 
meant that it was BER.  It also said it wouldnt consider the increase in the electricity  bills as 
this wouldnt be covered under his policy.
Unhappy with the response Mr S referred  his complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. She thought IPA had acted in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking IPA to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The terms of Mr Ss home emergency  policy say:
If we (our authorised  contractors) are unable to repair your boiler/hot water  system, we will 
pay you £500 towards a replacement.
Ref: DRN78486792The report  that IPA received  from B, its authorised contractor, said:
Boiler and system inspected, customer has immersion  heater, boiler  switched off, PCB, 
expansion vessel, ignition coil faulty, filling  loop faulty, expansion vessel gauge broken. 
and we are not confident that part will be available. The costs of these parts alone go over 
£500, this tied in with the labour pushes the repairs to nearly  £1,000, without being able to 
guarantee a fix of the boiler. Due to these factors, this boiler is beyond economical repair, 
customer would benefit from having a new one.
Im satisfied that B has made  it clear  to IPA that it couldnt guarantee it would be able to fix 
Mr Ss boiler. And because of this, IPA contributed  £500 towards  the cost of a new boiler,  in 
line with the policy terms.
I appreciate that the engineer who fitted the new boiler diagnosed an additional  fault. And  
Mr S feels  that the boiler was misdiagnosed as BER.  I dont  agree.  The faults identified by B 
were still present and Im not persuaded if it had identified the fault with the 2-port  valve  it 
wouldve reached the conclusion that the boiler  wasnt BER.  This is because the fault with 
the 2-port valve wouldve  only added further  cost and weight as to why the boiler was BER.
I have also considered the increase  in Mr Ss electricity bills. As this isnt something  that is 
covered under his home emergency policy this isnt something I could fairly ask IPA to pay. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint  against  Inter Partner Assistance 
SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7848679