K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
The PPI covered Mr B only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time It was 
sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs B aware  the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B have  told us that they werent aware  they 
had been sold PPI. The PPI was sold a long time ago and unfortunately there isnt much 
paperwork available. But this isnt unusual  as businesses arent required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  With the information  that is available I dont have enough  to say 
Santander didnt  make Mr and Mrs B aware the PPI was optional,  or that Mr B didnt choose 
to have it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr B has told us he would  have been entitled to statutory sick pay and life cover when he 
took the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to statutory sick pay and for 
longer. The policy also covered circumstances  that Mr Bs other policy  wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for Mr and Mrs B if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr B off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs B.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Ref: DRN76461872Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7646187