K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Virgin Money plc wont refund  numerous disputed transactions  which  
he didnt authorise.
background
Mr M didnt  bank online and only received  paper statements for his account  with Virgin on a 
quarterly basis. He went to a Virgin branch to withdraw money  and found  his account was 
practically empty. When he did receive  his statement, he saw a number of transactions  he 
hadnt made. These were over a period  from June  to August 2018. Some of these were 
gambling transactions and some were  online  transactions. Virgin  noted  that in a telephone 
conversation with Mr M on 11 July 2018 hed confirmed hed given his debit card to someone 
else to use. It seemed  clear this third party  had called Virgin pretending he was Mr M. Hed 
persuaded them to allow access to the funds. In their final response they confirmed they 
wouldnt be refunding  him as Mr M had breached the terms and conditions  of his account.
Mr M believed hed taken  care of his account. Hed never even shared details with his wife. 
He brought his complaint  to the ombudsman service. Hed also reported what  happened to 
his local police. He was extremely concerned as hed been saving for a home  and had lost 
out significantly. He was now in serious  financial hardship.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence, including copies of calls between  Virgin,  Mr M and 
the third party.  He also discussed what may have happened with Mr M. Mr M told him he 
used to live with his nephew and had once  given him access to his debit  card and PIN whilst 
on holiday. He didnt agree hed allowed his nephew to use his card more  frequently than 
that once.
However our investigator didnt believe Mr M had been completely truthful. Overall he 
believed Mr M had allowed a third party to use his card. Therefore he wouldnt be asking 
Virgin to do anything else.
Mr M disagreed and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  including 
whether a customer has acted in a grossly negligent manner. Ive taken this into account  
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Virgin and Mr M have told us. Weve also been  given  copies of telephone calls 
between Mr M and Virgin, and between the third party and Virgin.
Ref: DRN70904402Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made with Mr Ms 
debit card have been  comprehensively covered  in our investigators view of 11 September  
2019. I dont intend to repeat everything thats been said before. Except  to say Im satisfied 
Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly. Ive also more recently been in touch with both Virgin 
and Mr M. I confirmed  to Mr M I needed more  information from him about what  could have 
happened for me to consider whether there  was enough evidence to support changing the 
investigators outcome.   
I think the following  issues are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
Mr M has confirmed  he didnt use his account  online  and his debit card had never 
gone missing.
Its clear from the phone call between Mr M and Virgin that he admitted hed given his 
banking details to a third party.   
There are also other calls between a third party  who also happens to have an 
account with Virgin. These were  done  twice after Virgin had blocked certain types of 
transactions from Mr Ms account. This third party provided sufficient details about 
Mr Ms account  including recent transactions about a cancelled  direct debit and a 
large pension  credit  to allow the block to be released. This enabled further 
transactions that Mr M now disputes  to be carried out.
Mr Ms own testimony to us hasnt been  consistent. Firstly  he admitted giving 
someone else his details but has since said hes got no idea how these transactions 
were made. I have considered whether something more may have been  going on 
here.  So for example was Mr M a victim of financial abuse? But Mr M has given us 
little information  to help me make that judgement.
All the evidence shows the disputed transactions  which  amount to well over £5,000 
 were made using  the debit card. Things were bought online (often food deliveries)  
and transactions  made (for gambling).
Some of Mr Ms reasoning for disputing some transactions  is that Virgins  narrative  
on Mr Ms account statements suggest  these are made  in locations that Mr M hasnt 
been in. Actually  these locations  often relate to the businesss head office or similar 
as thats where  the card transactions are processed. But Im satisfied that all 
transactions were  carried out in locations  close to Mr M.
Its hard to believe the third party didnt get the level of information they held about 
Mr Ms finances direct from Mr M. By providing this information   and by allowing 
someone to use his card  Mr M was authorising these  transactions even if he didnt 
make the transactions himself.
I also cant be completely clear that Mr M didnt make some  of these himself. Hed 
recently got a large payment into his account  which allowed  him a larger  amount of 
money to spend than normal.  So there is a scenario which says he spent the money 
himself but very quickly regretted doing  so.
If Mr M hadnt  authorised these  transactions himself, Id have to consider whether 
hed acted with gross negligence or intent. Since Mr M had willingly shared his 
banking details with a third party, I think it would be fair to say he acted with intent,  or 
a serious disregard  of the consequences.
Overall I believe the evidence points to Mr M having  authorised these disputed transactions. 
I accept that he feels he may not have known the extent of his potential  losses and is 
distraught about what has now happened.  But taking everything into account I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask Virgin to do anything further.
Ref: DRN70904403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against  Virgin  
Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7090440