K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
Mr S wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  that he paid on the loans and remove  any missed  
payments from his credit file.
background
Mr S took out 17 instalment loans with Sunny between  February  2015  and November 2017.  
Mr S says that if Sunny had carried out better  checks, it wouldve seen  that he was 
struggling with his finances  and had a number of other short term loans at the same time.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss complaint be upheld in part. She thought Sunny 
shouldnt have agreed loans six to nine and loans 12 to 17. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr S had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove any negative information about  loans  12 
to 14. And the adjudicator  recommended  that Sunny remove  loans six to nine and loans 15 
to 17 entirely from Mr Ss credit  file. 
Sunny didnt agree with all of the adjudicators  recommendation  but it offered to put things 
right for loans 12 to 17.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr S, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN79601282the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Sunny has already offered  to refund the interest  that Mr S paid on loans  12 to 17. And it will 
also remove the loans  from Mr Ss credit file. As these loans dont appear to be in dispute,  I 
dont intend saying much  more about them
Mr S didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to five and loans ten and 
11. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing dispute  about these loans. So I wont  
be making a decision  about this lending.  But as the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship that Mr S had with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when  considering his 
other loans.
loans six to nine
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr S any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr S had taken out in about 14 months. And it was for 
double the amount of his earlier instalment loans. Although there had been some breaks in 
lending before loan six, I dont  consider that these were long enough to effectively break the 
chain of lending.  Particularly as four months earlier in December 2015, Mr S had taken out 
three separate loans in just over one week.  Mr S only settled two of these loans on the 
same day that he took out loan six, leaving the third loan still running.
Ref: DRN79601283I consider that Sunny  should have taken Mr Ss repeated borrowing over an extended period 
of time, as an indication  that he had become reliant on short term lending. And that Mr S was 
in all likelihood using  short term loans for everyday living costs rather  than to help with 
unexpected expenses.
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny lent loans six to nine because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So I consider that its fair to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loans six to nine in addition to the 
loans that Sunny has already offered to put right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans six to nine and 12 to 17;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to nine is negative. So all entries  about  loans six to nine as well as loans 12 to 17 
should be removed  from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7960128