K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold her two payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
Mrs H applied for a credit  card in 1995 and 2007. On both occasions  PPI was also sold at 
the time.  Our adjudicator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed,  so 
the complaint  was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
1995 sale
When selling  the PPI to Mrs H, Northern Bank shouldve  taken  reasonable steps to make  it 
clear the policy  was optional. It also shouldve got Mrs Hs agreement to take it out. Mrs H 
says she wasnt told the policy  was optional. The credit card and PPI were  taken out by post.  
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of the application Mrs H completed. Unfortunately  the 
section about  PPI isnt very clear, but a tick has been placed  in the first available  box. Based 
on what we know about how PPI was sold I think its likely  this box has been ticked to 
confirm that Mrs H wanted PPI added to the card. And the box below wouldve been  for her 
to select that she didnt want it. 
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs H knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs H 
so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
I think its likely that the information  Mrs H received about the PPI could have been  better 
than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have changed her mind about  taking 
the cover  and Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time she was eligible for the policy 
and it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs H has told us shed get some sick pay from her employer if she was off work unwell.
But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Mrs H couldnt work  due to illness  and 
this wouldve  been paid alongside  her employer benefits. And if Mrs H had lost her job, this 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months.  So I think she would have valued the extra  
security the policy  gave her if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. As the policys premiums were  
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.  
Ref: DRN76507842Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said but these points dont change my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
2007 sale
When selling  the PPI to Mrs H, Northern Bank shouldve  made  it clear  the policy was 
optional. It also shouldve  got Mrs Hs agreement to take it out. Mrs H says she was not 
aware the PPI was optional. As the credit card and PPI were  taken out during a meeting I 
dont know what was discussed. Where I have limited information about  a sale, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the information and evidence  I have seen.
Northern Bank has given us a copy  of the credit  card application which  was completed at the 
time following Mrs Hs discussions with the advisor.  On this I can see there is a section  
about PPI which says I wish to purchase optional payment protection insurance. Mrs H 
has signed below this statement. I dont know what was discussed  at the time Mrs H took out 
the card, but I wouldve expected Mrs H to read over this application and query  anything  
before signing  it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs H knew at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Northern Bank advised Mrs H to take out the policy. So it shouldve  made  sure the policy 
was right for her. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time the PPI was 
sold, I think it was. I say this because:
Mrs H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mrs Hs told us about her circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt  cover   like known 
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs H says she wouldve received employer benefits at the time. The PPI couldve 
been of use to Mrs H as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the card 
for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to illness or if she was made redundant. 
This wouldve  been on top of any employer benefits she may have got, meaning she 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable  to Mrs H. And as the 
premium was paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  at any time if 
anything in her circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mrs H, Northern Bank  also shouldve given 
her clear  information about the policy so that she could make a proper choice  about  whether 
or not to take it out. I dont know what steps  Northern Bank took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained  as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed Mrs Hs decision. I think shed  still have bought it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for her.
Ive thought about Mrs Hs comments carefully, including what she has said about family 
helping her if she needed it. Whilst I dont doubt it wouldve been the intention  of family to 
Ref: DRN76507843help, this assistance cant be guaranteed and it would depend  on the familys circumstances 
at the time. So these  points dont change my decision.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H for the PPI sold in 
2007 because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt 
tell Ms H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I understand that Northern Bank  has made a payment to Mrs H for commission which  it has 
then revised. Northern Bank should  be in touch  with Mrs H with more details about this if it 
already hasnt been.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium from the PPI sold in 2007. I understand it 
has already paid some of the commission and profit share to Mrs H but it should  pay her 
anything extra it now calculates she is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7650784