K822xcomplaint
Miss L complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  a Junior ISA (JISA) to her on behalf  of her 
son. 
background 
Miss L opened a Lloyds  JISA online on her sons behalf in June 2016. In July 2016 Miss L 
withdrew £1,000  in branch from the JISA. But when Miss L enquired  about further 
withdrawals she was told the funds in a JISA cant be accessed until the child turns 18 
unless the child dies or is terminally  ill. Miss L complained to Lloyds.  
Lloyds responded and said that Miss L had confirmed shed read the account  terms when  
she applied  for the JISA  online. And the JISA terms explain that no withdrawals  will be 
allowed until the child turns 18, except for some very limited circumstances. Lloyds 
apologised that Miss L had incorrectly  been  allowed to withdraw funds in branch and offered 
Mr H £75. Miss L didnt accept and referred Mr Hs complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Hs complaint but thought Lloyds decision not to allow  further 
withdrawals was fair and didnt agree  the JISA had been mis-sold. The adjudicator said that 
Lloyds offer of £75 was reasonable for the error it made when Miss L was allowed to 
withdraw £1,000  so didnt ask it to increase the offer or take any further action. Miss L 
remains unhappy that Mr H cant access his money until hes 18 and asked for the complaint 
to be appealed. As a result, its been  passed  to me to make a decision.  
Miss L brings this complaint on behalf of Mr H. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrated Miss L is that Mr H isnt able to withdraw any money from 
his JISA until he turns 18. In her response to the adjudicators findings Miss L has explained  
that she didnt  read the terms and conditions online and that she was allowed to withdraw 
money in branch. Whilst I understand how upset Miss L is, I havent found any evidence that 
Lloyds has mis-sold the JISA. 
The account  opening process  was completed online which  means Lloyds was obliged  to 
provide clear  information about the features  of the account it was offering.  In this case, Ive 
looked at the online  application process and I think Lloyds made it clear that funds paid into 
a JISA cant be withdrawn until the child turns 18. That information  isnt hidden in the small 
print and I thought  it was featured  clearly during the application process.  
I know Miss L has told us she didnt read the account terms. But I have to take into account 
that Miss L told Lloyds  she had read and understood them when she applied  on Mr Hs 
behalf. I think Lloyds  acted reasonably by proceeding to open the account on the basis  that 
Miss L was aware that funds deposited  wouldnt be available until Mr H turns  18.
Miss L was allowed to withdraw  £1,000  around  two weeks after the original deposit was 
made. Shes  said that this led her to believe  she had access to the accounts  as needed. But 
Ref: DRN71746592Lloyds has confirmed that the decision to allow the withdrawal was a mistake.  And Im not 
persuaded that Lloyds decision to allow the withdrawal had any impact on Miss Ls 
understanding of how JISA  withdrawals work.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss L and Mr H but I havent  found the JISA was mis-sold.  Lloyds  
shouldnt have allowed  Miss L to withdraw  £1,000  from it and offered Mr H £75 in recognition 
of its error. Im satisfied  that Lloyds offer fairly reflects the impact of its mistake. I leave it to 
Miss L to decide whether to accept  the £75 on behalf of Mr H. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £75 Lloyds Bank PLC has 
already offered. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  to ask 
Miss L to accept or reject  my decision  on behalf  of Mr H before 13 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7174659