K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a used vehicle  he got with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply and Moneybarn took too long to deal with his 
complaint.  
background
Mr M acquired a used van under a conditional  sale agreement  (CSA) he took out with 
Moneybarn in October 2018.  He says the supplying dealer told him the van would have  a 
service and MOT  before  collection. Mr M collected the van in early November and had 
trouble with the brakes on the journey home.  He took the van to a local garage and was told 
brake pads  were completely worn, brake discs were soldered on (so they could not be 
replaced) and gaskets,  various filters, fuel injectors and an EGR  valve  needed to be 
replaced. Mr M doesnt think the van should have passed an MOT  in this state. He contacted 
the supplying  dealer  and the credit  broker, who got in touch with Moneybarn in November 
2018. 
Moneybarn responded to Mr M in early January 2019 to provide referral rights to this service 
- as the eight weeks it normally allows to investigate complaints had passed. Moneybarn  
provided a further  update to Mr M at the end of January 2019 - after obtaining more 
information from the broker. It said some of the issues Mr M raised were wear  and tear 
related so it wasnt responsible for those  and, whilst Mr M had supplied some  evidence 
about faults in November  2018, Moneybarn didnt think  there was enough to show the van 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Moneybarn offered to arrange for an independent  expert to inspect  the van and provide a 
report, in February  2019 but the van was stolen before  the inspection  took place. Moneybarn  
says this meant it couldnt check if the vehicle was fit for purpose  and Mr M was in breach of 
his obligations  under the CSA to keep the van insured. 
Mr M says he needed a van for his business over the Christmas period and he couldnt use 
this one - because it was faulty - so he used  another vehicle. He couldnt afford to pay for 
both so he completed a statutory  off-road  notice (SORN) for this van in January 2019  and 
stopped insuring it. He thinks  it is Moneybarns fault the van was stolen (given the delay) and 
he shouldnt be expected to keep insuring  a van that he couldnt  use, in this situation. 
Moneybarn accepted it took too long to respond to Mr M initially and it was understandable  
that Mr M arranged for some repairs. It offered to 
reimburse repair costs of £495;
make  a goodwill  payment of £200,  for associated distress and inconvenience;
write off the interest;
refund  monthly  payments made under the CSA;  and
write off one third of the vans value. 
Moneybarn calculated that this would leave  Mr M to pay £6,796.66 under a payment plan. 
And it offered to value the van, if it is recovered  later, to see if the balance can be adjusted. 
Mr M accepted Moneybarns offer initially - he told us he felt he had no other  option  at the  
but he wants Moneybarn  to write off the balance  now.  
Ref: DRN79308792Our adjudicator acknowledges  Moneybarn took longer than it should to investigate  the 
complaint and this delay  was frustrating for Mr M. But he doesnt think it was unreasonable 
of Moneybarn to require more evidence in relation  to the vans condition at the point of 
supply. Hes not persuaded theres  enough evidence  to conclude that the van was of 
unsatisfactory quality  then. And, even if we were to accept that it was and find Mr M was 
entitled to reject, wed expect the van itself to be returned to Moneybarn. Thats not possible 
because it was stolen.  Hes satisfied  Mr M was required  to insure the van under the CSA 
terms and, while he understands Mr Ms reasons for cancelling  the insurance, he is not 
persuaded we can reasonably require Moneybarn to do more than it has already  offered.  
Mr M didnt  agree. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter  and says (in summary) 
this van was of unsatisfactory quality and unsafe when it was supplied  which  is 
illustrated by the fact the brakes failed on the journey home from collection  and this 
is evidenced in paperwork from a third-party  garage  that checked  the brakes;
he told Moneybarn about  these faults  in good time and supplied relevant  evidence 
including photographs  and video footage that show the rear brake  hubs couldnt be 
removed meaning  the van wasnt serviced  as the dealer had promised; 
Moneybarn failed  to ensure the van was serviced properly and was safe  there 
should have been  an advisory  on the MOT about the brakes, the supplying dealer 
has numerous bad reviews online and Moneybarn  should  have taken  this into 
consideration before recommending this particular dealer to customers  - hes 
unhappy that Moneybarn has never addressed  this part of his complaint in particular;
it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to expect  Mr M to continue  to meet monthly 
payments and insure a van that he couldnt use during a very busy  period for his 
business and Moneybarn should have  accepted  the van was of unsatisfactory  quality 
based on the evidence he supplied in November - or arranged  the experts inspection 
much sooner; 
it is unfair to expect him to pay the balance owing under the agreement in this 
situation. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint on 26 August 2020 explaining 
why, subject to any further submissions  received  from the parties,  I was minded to find the 
offer that Moneybarn  made to settle  this complaint was fair and Ive summarised  my 
provisional findings below :- 
 
I could see Mr M went to a lot of time and trouble to provide  very detailed submissions in 
respect of this complaint, I considered everything  and, if I didnt address every single point 
that he raised, thats not because I hadnt thought about it but rather  I was going to 
concentrate on what I considered was key to reaching and fair and reasonable outcome.  
I was satisfied that Moneybarn was required to provide goods  that were  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale here, that includes things like fitness for purpose,  appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor  defects and safety and durability. And goods are of satisfactory  
quality if they meet  the standard that a reasonable person would  expect, taking all of the 
relevant circumstances into account - such as the price  paid and the age and mileage, in the 
case of a used  vehicle. 
This van cost about £10,500, it was five years  old and had covered  76,000  miles when Mr M 
got it. So, a reasonable person would expect there to be some wear  and tear present - 
Ref: DRN79308793meaning parts would have to be repaired or replaced sooner or later. Mr M told us the 
brakes failed on the journey home the day he collected the van. I thought a reasonable 
person would not expect that to happen  and it was understandable  that Mr M was concerned 
and had the van checked by a local garage. 
Mr M supplied a list of faults  the garage  found  - along with some video footage and 
photographs that he sent to Moneybarn at the time.  I understood he considered  Moneybarn  
should have accepted this proved the van was of unsatisfactory  quality in November 2018. 
But I thought some of the issues were likely wear and tear related. And I couldnt reasonably 
find this evidence alone meant  a van of this age, cost and mileage must be of unsatisfactory  
quality. 
I could see the van passed an MOT on 1 November 2018. That would have  included  a 
brakes check  amongst  other things.  And I thought this suggested the brakes (and the van 
itself) were roadworthy, at that stage. I understood Mr M felt the MOT wasnt  carried out 
properly but I couldnt  comment on that - its something Mr M may wish to take up with the 
Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA).   
Looking at the evidence Moneybarn had at the relevant  time  the successful MOT,  the 
vans age cost and mileage and the information  Mr M supplied - I was not persuaded that it 
was unreasonable of Moneybarn to want additional  evidence and arrange for an 
independent expert  to inspect. It was unfortunate the van was stolen  before  that happened  - 
as an experts report is likely  to have been useful  in establishing if there were quality issues  
present. But, on the available  evidence,  I was unable to make a firm finding about  this. 
I understood Mr M was unhappy with many of the dealers actions. I explained that I wasnt 
able to hold Moneybarn responsible for the dealers after sales service. I could hold 
Moneybarn responsible for things the dealer said in pre-sale negotiations (under section 56 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974). But, even if I accepted the dealer said the car would be 
serviced during  pre-sale  discussions and Mr M relied on that, I wasnt persuaded this made 
much difference to the overall outcome, in light of my conclusions below.
Mr M brings  this complaint to our service  because he acquired this van with a finance  
agreement. When  a financial business does  something wrong, we generally try and put the 
borrower back in the position he would have been in, if mistakes hadnt been made. So, if we 
are satisfied that a vehicle  sold or supplied under a finance agreement is of unsatisfactory 
quality and the borrower should be entitled  to return it for a refund, we usually require the 
lender to collect the vehicle and put the borrower  back in the position  he would have been in 
otherwise. 
This generally means the finance agreement is cancelled and the deposit refunded  - so the 
borrower doesnt have to pay any more  interest.  The cost of repairs may also have to be 
reimbursed and, where theres been  some loss of use, monthly repayments may also need 
to be refunded. We might also find a lender  should  pay compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience associated  with the supply  of a faulty vehicle, depending on the 
circumstances.
I considered the offer Moneybarn  made. According  to the CSA the van cost over £10,500,  
interest payable was nearly £9,000,  Mr M paid a deposit of around £400  and agreed to repay 
the full amount borrowed of nearly  £20,000 over five years at over £300 a month. 
Moneybarn supplied a statement that shows about £18,000 was left to pay under the CSA in 
Ref: DRN79308794February 2019. And, in the usual  course  of events, Mr M would be liable to repay  that 
following the theft of the van  with the benefit of any insurance pay out.
I considered Moneybarns offer represents a reduction of about £12,000 on the amount due 
under the CSA - and over £3,000 on the original cost of the van which  puts Mr M back in the 
position he would have been in if Moneybarn had agreed to take the van back and provide  a 
refund due to quality  issues  - insofar  as thats  reasonably possible, given the intervening  
events of the theft of the van and the failure  to insure. 
On balance, I considered  Moneybarns  offer was sufficient  to mean Mr M wont  be out of 
pocket for the cost of repairs or have to pay interest  under the CSA - or pay for the time he 
had the van and couldnt use it. I think the amount refunded and/or written off also seems to 
be enough to include a refund of the deposit  that Mr M paid, pay interest on any refunds that 
we might usually require to be paid and provide  fair and reasonable compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience Mr M experienced. 
It is unfortunate but the van cant be returned to Moneybarn because it was stolen. I was 
satisfied the CSA requires Mr M to insure  the van for just such an event - and that obligation  
was ongoing while the van remained in his possession/control. I was not persuaded that I 
could fairly  find Mr M was no longer required to insure the van because  it was off the road - 
or as a result of the complaint he raised  with Moneybarn. I didnt think it was unreasonable 
for Moneybarn to expect  Mr M to meet his obligations under the CSA in this situation.  And I 
was unable to fairly  hold Moneybarn liable for the theft or the failure to insure. So, even if I 
were to find the van was of unsatisfactory quality and/or the dealer made misrepresentations 
pre-sale, I wasnt persuaded that I could reasonably require  Moneybarn  to do more than it 
has offered already. If Moneybarn has recorded any adverse  information  in respect of the 
CSA on Mr Ms credit  file, I considered that should  be rectified provided the payment plan is 
maintained.
the responses received from the parties
Moneybarn has not objected to my provisional  conclusions. Mr M doesnt  think  the outcome 
proposed if fair. In summary, he says:-
  
the dealer  was un-cooperative even though he was told he had a three months  
warranty at the outset and he reported the issues straightaway;
he told Moneybarn all of this and they could have done much more  to help  they 
should have arranged an independent inspection  in November, for example; and 
its unreasonable to expect  him to pay for a van that he does not have - given the 
mistakes made  by Moneybarn. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete (as some 
of it is here) I reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider  
what is most likely  to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I understand Mr M is disappointed  by my provisional findings and Im sorry about that. As I 
explained in my provisional decision  Mr M brings  this complaint to this service because 
Moneybarn supplied this vehicle under a finance agreement.  And Im looking at Moneybarns  
Ref: DRN79308795obligations arising under that finance  agreement in this decision. Im unable to hold 
Moneybarn responsible for the dealers actions  after the vehicle was supplied  or the terms of 
the warranty that Mr M got from the dealer. 
For the reasons  Ive set out already, I think the offer Moneybarn  made  is fair in all of the 
circumstances. I am not persuaded that I can reasonably require Moneybarn to do more. I 
understand Mr M is finding  it difficult to meet the repayments currently due under  the agreed  
plan. If he is experiencing financial  problems we would  expect  Moneybarn  to treat him 
positively and sympathetically which would include ensuring that that repayments remain  
affordable. Mr M may find it helpful to get some free debt advice and theres  more  
information about how to do this on our website  or we can provide  him with useful contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I find the offer Moneybarn made to settle this complaint is fair 
in all the circumstances and my decision is that Moneybarn No 1. Limited should  (if it hasnt  
done so already) refund repair costs of £495 along  with payments made under the CSA,  pay 
Mr M £200 compensation for delay and write  off interest due under the CSA along with one 
third of the vans value  leaving Mr M to pay £6,796.66 under an affordable repayment plan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7930879