K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Zenith Insurance plcs decision to turn down a claim on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
background
Mr S took out a policy with Zenith to insure  his van. When Mr S was away  working,  he 
parked his van on a residential road,  it was then stolen during the night. Mr S reported  the 
theft to the police and contacted Zenith  to claim on his policy.  
Zenith reviewed the claim and asked Mr S to send in both keys and the V5 for his van. Mr S 
sent these into Zenith.  Zenith said that one of the keys Mr S provided them wasnt for his 
van, so they sent it to the manufacturer for testing.  Because of this Zenith asked for his 
comments on why one of the keys wasnt for his van. 
Mr S told Zenith hed bought the van from a second-hand dealer and been  provided two 
keys. He said hed checked both keys unlocked and locked the van so couldnt  understand 
why Zenith  said one of the keys hed provided wasnt for his van. Zenith said the report they 
had done on the keys showed one was for Mr Ss van, but the other didnt match his van 
mechanically or electronically.  
Zenith considered  Mr Ss comments and after some months declined  it. They said it wasnt 
possible for one of the keys Mr S had provided  to them  to have unlocked his van. Because  
of this Zenith  declined  the claim as they said Mr S provided fraudulent information. Mr S 
didnt think this was fair. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
as the keys didnt match  Mr Ss van she didnt  think Zenith had done anything wrong by 
turning down his claim. Mr S didnt  agree,  he said hed worked with Zenith and theyd taken 
too long to decide his claim  and that he didnt think their decision  not to pay it was fair. 
As Mr S didnt agree  the complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss policy say: If you or anyone  acting on your behalf 
knowingly commit a fraudulent act or submit a fraudulent document or make  a fraudulent 
statement or exaggerate any claim made  under the policy,  we will not pay the claim and 
cover under this and all other insurances currently  in force  with us with which you are 
connected will cease immediately. You will not be entitled to any refund under the policy.
Zenith have provided  a key report which says that the two keys provided do not match  Mr 
Ss car, electronically or mechanically. Ive also seen pictures of the keys and you can see 
the blades of the keys dont match each other. Im therefore satisfied  its likely  one of the 
keys is not for Mr Ss van. 
Ref: DRN76147132Ive also considered Mr Ss comments on the keys. Hes told Zenith and our investigator that 
he tried both keys after he bought  the van. He said: both keys were  able to lock and unlock 
my van which  is why I never got them verified. Ive also listened to a call between Zenith 
and Mr S where hes said both keys worked  on the van, so he doesnt  know  why Zenith are 
saying they dont match. 
From reading the key report  Im satisfied one of the keys Zenith  had tested isnt for Mr Ss 
van and therefore  couldnt lock or unlock it. So, when considering  Mr Ss comments  on the 
keys Im satisfied its most likely  hes not made  an accurate statement about both keys being 
able to lock and unlock his van. Im therefore  not going to interfere with Zeniths decision to 
turn down his claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7614713