K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2001. Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs B took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says that she felt the PPI was mandatory,  and that if shes  been told that she 
could turn it down,  she would have as she didnt want or need the policy. She also says 
that no explanation was given,  and she was just told where to sign. FICL has provided a 
copy of Mrs Bs store card application   and I can see that the policy is presented  as 
optional, and Mrs B has signed to select  it. Mrs B has then signed the application for the 
card separately. While I dont doubt what Mrs B is saying it doesnt  follow  that the PPI 
wasnt clearly  made optional by FICL - Mrs B was entering  in to a financial agreement,  
and it was her responsibility to check over what she was agreeing to by signing the 
application.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN73431842Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7343184