K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 3 loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr P between  October  2012  and 
April 2013. Details of the 3 short term loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid deferrals Amount Highest repayment
1 12/10/2012 22/10/2012 1 200 260.00
2 06/11/2012 31/12/2012 2 200 269.90
3 09/04/2013 21/05/2013 1 200 269.90
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in part and thought loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. Uncle  Buck didnt  agree. So the complaint  was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN71664312I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading  guidance on irresponsible  lending 
defines sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in particular the customer  should  
be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a lender should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Uncle Buck  needed  to do more when it approved loans  1 and 2. These 2 loans were taken 
out early on in the lending  relationship and the repayment amount seemed affordable  when 
assessed against what Mr P told them. So because of this, I dont  think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable  before  agreeing  to these loans.
By loan 3 the amount  Mr P had asked for though had not reduced in value at all. And he had 
repeatedly by this stage  deferred his repayment. He had done  this once for loan 1 and twice  
for loan 2.
So I think Uncle Buck  couldve realised at this point  that Mr P may have some  longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Uncle Buck shouldve at this stage become concerned about whether it knew  
enough about Mr Ps expenditure and whether  he had other short  term loans at the time he 
asked for loan 3.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  for Uncle Buck to carry out further checks about  
Mr Ps short  term lending  at that time. This is to make sure Mr P was in position to make  the 
repayment for loan 3 sustainably. I dont think Uncle Buck did this. So I need to think  about 
what it wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks.  
Mr P has provided information to our service about the open short term loans he would have 
had at the time he asked Uncle Buck for loan 3.This  shows that Mr P was having problems 
managing his money. Uncle  Buck  wouldve found out that Mr P was repaying a significant  
amount to three  short term lenders  at the time he applied for the loan. 
I think that Uncle Buck wouldve found  out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mr P wouldnt have  been able repay  loan 3 in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Uncle Buck shouldnt have given loan 3 to Mr P and I think 
he lost out as a result  of this. So Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan 3;
Ref: DRN71664313pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan 3 on Mr Ps credit file, if there  
is any still on there relating to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck) should pay Mr P compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166431