K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited gave her poor service in connection with 
a home  emergency  insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints about  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. 
Mrs C had two products. Home Care One covered her central heating  boiler  for repairs and 
an annual service. Kitchen Appliance  Cover covered her gas hob. According to the policy 
booklet both products were insurance products.
British Gas Insurance Limited was the insurer responsible for underwriting  those products. 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
The policy renewal date each year was 9 December. For the policy year from 9 December 
2016 British Gas did a service  on 21 February 2017. For the policy  year from 9 December 
2017 Mrs C paid a total of about  £258.00.
Mrs C complained that British Gas didnt keep an appointment for the annual service  on 6 
November 2018  and didnt deal properly with her telephone calls.
British Gas did a service on 11 December 2018. In a final response  letter  on 14 December 
2018 it said she could  have another service later in this policy  year. It sent her a cheque  for 
£50.00 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
British Gas had taken the correct measures to put things right for Mrs C.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
British Gas did no service in the policy  year from 9 December 2017.
Her policy documents for that year didnt say annual services might  be more  than 
twelve months apart. Her documents for the year from December 2018 do say that.
British Gas never asked about  her familys vulnerability. 
British Gas originally offered £60.00  compensation  and told her it would reduce this if 
she took the complaint further.
Since 6 November 2018 it has been an absolute nightmare trying  to sort this out.
A boiler  service is £79.30 without the Home Care cover, so at the very least  she 
should be entitled to that in addition to the £50.00 already  given.
Ref: DRN76084632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regular servicing of a boiler is important. But that relies  on the making  and keeping  of 
appointments. Mrs C hasnt said why  a year after the service in February 2017, there was 
no service in about February 2018.  She says that in September 2018 she made an 
appointment with British  Gas for the morning of 6 November  2018. 
I accept her statement  that she contacted British Gas mid-morning on that day to check  that 
an engineer was coming. So  when no engineer arrived  - she felt her time had been wasted 
and she knew she would  have to make arrangements for another appointment.
British Gas says that in busy  times  it prioritises boiler repairs  over boiler servicing  - and 
vulnerable people over other people. I think Mrs C wouldve said if anyone  in her family had 
any particular needs.
I accept Mrs Cs statement that British  Gas offered her a service visit in March  2019. And 
I accept that there were  occasions when British  Gas broke  promises  to call Mrs C back. So I 
can see why she wasnt happy  with the service.
But as regards her complaint,  British Gas sent an acknowledgment on 9 November 2018. 
And it had eight weeks to respond to the complaint  under the rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So I cant say the response  was too slow under those  rules.  
British Gas had a mobile phone number for Mr Cs husband. And I dont find it unreasonable  
that British Gas rang it on about 7 December  2018  to arrange an appointment for a service 
the following  week. In the event, British  Gas did the service on 11 December 2018, only a 
couple of days  into the new policy year. 
Mrs C sent us a detailed written account on 8 January 2019. She didnt say British  Gas had 
told her it would offer £60.00 but reduce it if she pursued her complaint. She said that later.  
But she hasnt given  any detail  of who made  the offer of £60.00 or when. Theres  no figure of 
£60.00 in the records British Gas has sent us. So I dont think theres  enough evidence to 
support what Mrs C says about that.
British Gas sent Mrs C a cheque for £50.00 compensation.  And it offered to do another 
service later on in this policy year. Overall I think thats enough  to make up for the missed  
service and the distress  and inconvenience  British Gas caused  Mrs C. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to order British Gas to do any more in response to Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7608463