K822xComplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs W say Santander  UK plc, trading as Abbey National at 
the time,  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W say they werent told the PPI was optional. So Ive considered  what theyve 
said alongside the other evidence available to come to a decision on what I think  is more 
likely to have happened. 
Santander says it wouldve  presented  the PPI as optional  to Mr and Mrs W and that it 
wouldve only added the policy to their account with their consent. It also says Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve completed a separate Paymentcare application form and a direct debit mandate  to 
instruct it to deduct  the PPI premiums from their chosen account. Unfortunately  due to the 
length of time thats passed the Paymentcare application form is no longer available.  But I 
have seen a copy  of a welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs W following their 
application. This letter included a schedule  of cover  setting out that the PPI was taken  out 
to cover Mr W only and the monthly cost and benefit  of the policy. It also concludes  by 
saying thank you for choosing Paymentcare to protect your mortgage payments. This 
suggests Mr and Mrs W had a choice  in taking out the cover and that they decided to take it 
out in Mr Ws name only. 
So without any stronger  evidence  to the contrary I think its likely  Santander  made it clear 
that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose  to take it out in Mr Ws 
name only  although I can understand why they cant  remember this.
Mr and Mrs W say they werent given any advice or recommendation to take out the policy.  
Santander says that as this was a branch sale it believes this wouldve been  an advised 
sale. As it stands there isnt enough  information  to make a finding on this point. However,  it 
is not necessary  for me make a conclusive determination on this point.  This is because I 
have not found that the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W for the reasons set out 
below. So, even  if I assume advice was given,  it does not affect the outcome of this 
complaint.
In an advised  sale Santander wouldve had to take reasonable  steps to ensure the policy 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances (as the insured 
party) at the time, I think  that it was. For example  he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr W wasnt entitled  to any sick pay from his employer and they 
only had enough  savings to cover their repayments  for up to 6 months,  I think  they had a 
need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN79629172Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said - including  what  theyve said about 
not been told they couldve  taken  out PPI with another provider. But Santander  werent 
obliged to inform  them of products available on the market from other providers. It was up to 
Mr and Mrs W to shop around to find out the products other  suppliers offered - and so this 
point doesnt change my decision.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7962917