K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI). 
background
Mr Ws house suffered movement damage  and he made a claim some time ago. He brought 
an earlier dispute concerning this to our office,  and an ombudsman  issued  a decision on this 
matter. Mr W has now complained that UKI havent  adhered correctly to that decision.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but did not find in Mr Ws favour,  so the case  
has been passed to me for review  and a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
First of all I must make it absolutely clear that I cannot revisit  the decision made in the earlier 
case. Our rules dont  allow  us to make  a second  decision on matters already decided  by an 
ombudsman. With that in mind I can only look to see if UKI have followed that decision, I 
think they have.  
In the earlier  decision it was decided that an element of Mr Ws house  needed  repairing, 
what he is asking for now is rebuilding. That isnt what  the earlier decision allowed for. UKI 
arranged for the house to be looked  at again  and no further sign of ongoing damage was 
seen, so I think the original decision holds. 
I can see from the file papers that Mr W wants the rebuild to be such that he could in the 
future make other amendments to his house. That isnt what his policy  or the earlier decision 
allows for. They require  that his house  is put back to its pre-damage state,  that doesnt 
include the ability to make further  changes not currently  present. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W in this fashion, but I cant  change  the earlier  decision, and the 
evidence presented since doesnt persuade me that anything of significance  has changed 
since then that requires a rebuild instead  of a repair. 
my final decision
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7154506