K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund disputed  cash 
withdrawals made from his account. 
Background
Mr H had an account with Halifax. On the 12 December 2017 he made contact with Halifax 
only to be advised  his accounts  were  closed. 
Mr H says that fraudulent  transactions totalling just over £5,100  were  made  from his Halifax 
current account between  the 27 July 2017 and the 27 November 2017 
The last time Mr H says he used his card was in July 2017  before being remanded in 
custody on the 27 July 2017.  Mr H explains that between July and December 2017  he had 
benefit payments  into his account and payments from friends, then on being released from 
custody he attempted  to check  his account  but realised it had been closed. 
Mr H is also unhappy that Halifax closed his account  without notifying him.
On the 20 September 2017  Halifax sent a letter to Mr H giving him two months notice before 
his accounts closed. On the 27 November 2017  his account was closed and Halifax  issued 
Mr H with a cheque for £6.76. 
Halifax investigated and decided not to refund  the fraudulent transactions.  They  thought 
Mr H had authorised the withdrawals or made them himself  because:
-The card and PIN were sent to Mr H in June 2017 before he went into custody.
-Mr H advised he didnt  receive them but failed  to report them as missing.
-On the 6 July 2017 Mr H contacted  the bank to advise he hadnt received a refund  for 
a previous fraud claim  a withdrawal  was then completed in branch for these funds. 
-Some of the account activity which  Mr Hs disputing was completed online meaning  a 
fraudster would  need to know Mr Hs online banking details  Mr H hasnt explained 
how a fraudster might have got hold of these. 
Halifax also said they reserve the right to end a banking relationship.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. But they didnt uphold  it. They  thought 
it most  likely  Mr H authorised the payments. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
-He didnt receive his card or PIN. 
-He didnt authorise the transactions. 
-He was confused before and he remembers the last time he used his account  was 
actually on the 30 June 2017. 
-The people who were  in his accommodation  knew when he got paid. And the bank 
knew his address wasnt safe after his last fraud claim.
-Why did the bank  not block  his account after the failed PIN attempts?
As Mr H didnt  accept our investigators findings  its been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN74788152My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented  to the transactions 
being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-To carry out the transactions a fraudster would have needed access  to Mr Hs card 
and PIN and his telephone banking details. Mr H has suggested that he never 
received the debit  card or PIN and this must  be how the fraudster  obtained them. 
But, this isnt backed up by the evidence. On the 6 July 2017  Mr H attended the 
branch to collect his fraud refund  he told our investigator that he carried out the 
withdrawal using  his passport.  But the evidence Ive seen from the bank shows this 
was carried out using Mr Hs card and PIN. 
-Im surprised  if Mr H didnt receive his card, or PIN, that he didnt make  contact with 
the bank to question this. 
-Ive also seen evidence that withdrawals were  carried out using Mr Hs card and PIN 
between the 6 and 21 July 2017   prior to Mr Hs time in custody and for transactions  
which he hasnt disputed. On responding to our investigators questions Mr H initially  
wrote that he last used his account  on the day he was remanded  in custody  the 
27 July 2017  or the day before. Both these factors strongly suggest Mr H was in 
possession of his card prior to going  to custody and did receive the new card and 
PIN notification in June 2017. 
-Ive asked Halifax about how the account  transfers Mr Hs is disputing were  carried 
out. The evidence  theyve provided me show that they were carried out via telephone 
banking. Our investigator thought they were carried out via online banking   but I 
dont think this changes my conclusions. Whether the transactions were  completed 
online or via telephone  banking  a fraudster would  have needed access  to a 
significant amount  of security information  to access Mr Hs account this way  and 
Im unable  to see how this could have been possible. 
-The pattern of transactions doesnt  fit what Id expect from a typical fraudster. Id 
normally expect a fraudster to spend  the available funds  as quickly as possible. And 
this wasnt the case  with Mr Hs account.  Instead  of transactions  taking place every  
day there are gaps and evidence of the card being used  for day to day spending. 
Ref: DRN74788153Mr H responded to our investigators view by saying he never received his card or PIN and 
the bank shouldnt have sent them to shared accommodation where he was living. Ive 
thought about Mr Hs points here, but Im afraid  Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H 
reported his card and PIN missing or attended  his local branch in an attempt to pick them  up.
Considering Mr H wasnt remanded in custody until the 27 July 2019 I find this surprising. 
Ive also seen a copy of the banks  notes and Mr Hs address history and Ive not seen any 
indication in these  documents that Mr H asked for his card and PIN to be sent to his local 
branch. 
Mr H also questioned why his card was unblocked  after three incorrect PIN attempts and 
whether CCTV was available for one of the transactions carried out in branch. The bank 
have explained  that the card was unblocked  following a phone call, and I no reason to think  
this wasnt the case. Mr H has asked whether CCTV was available. But even if I did have 
this to view this wouldnt change my thoughts on his complaint. I say this because Im aware 
Mr H couldnt have  carried  out the transactions  himself  but this doesnt mean  as Ive 
concluded  he didnt authorise someone else to carry them  out on his behalf. Which  I find 
the most  likely and plausible explanation.
Account closure
Mr H is also unhappy that his accounts  were  closed without him being notified. 
Ive seen evidence  from the bank that on the 20 September  2017 Halifax  sent a letter to 
Mr H giving him two months notice  before  his accounts closed. And then on the 
27 November 2017 his accounts  were  closed. Halifax have also explained that a cheque  
was sent to his last known address with his closing balance. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr H and I appreciate the closure of his account  caused 
him inconvenience. But the bank  can make commercial decisions about who it offers
banking services to. They  cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can
decide they no longer want to do business  with individuals. Thats because they have the
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that
in Mr Hs case Halifax exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided  to
close her account.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I wont  be asking Halifax  to do anything further here.  
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7478815