K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the delays and poor service she received  from One Insurance  
Limited (One) when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
All references to One in my decision  include its agents.
background
Miss S was involved in an incident  in February  2018 and she reported  it to her insurer, One. 
In March 2018 Miss S provided One with the information it asked her for to deal with her 
claim. It said it would  arrange for an approved repairer (AR) to assess  her car and organise 
repairs. 
Miss S complained to One in May 2018  about the delay it caused  and that her car still hadnt 
been repaired. She chased it for an update  between  May and June 2018. Miss S arranged  
for her own repairer to fix her car in July 2018  as she hadnt heard from One or its AR.
In July 2018 One replied to Miss Ss complaint. It didnt uphold it.
Miss S asked us to look at her complaint. Our adjudicator thought  One has been 
unreasonable. She found it had reduced  the amount it intended to reimburse Miss S for the 
repairs by applying a cheaper labour rate to the estimate Miss S provided.  The adjudicator 
said this isnt what it said it would  do in its Terms of Business or policy.  In any event, 
Miss Ss final invoice was less than their ARs estimate. 
She thought  One had caused delay and failed to book Miss Ss car in for repair. So the 
adjudicator recommended  One reimburse  Miss S for the repairs minus the excess of £400. 
Miss S had already paid One £100 toward  the excess, so the adjudicator thought  it was fair 
for One to deduct the balance of £300  for the excess  from the reimbursement.  
The adjudicator recommended One Pay Miss S £100 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
One didnt agree. It said its method  for deciding how much  to reimburse Miss S was correct.  
The AR didnt  carry out a full physical inspection of Miss Ss car in April 2018  so it wasnt  
an accurate estimate.  So it said it wont meet the full costs of the final invoice minus  the 
excess. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Its clear that Miss S voiced her dissatisfaction  about Ones  handling of the claim in an email  
dated 14 May 2018. The incident happened  on 23 February 2018 and Miss S provided One 
with the documents it requested by 13 March 2018.  On 17 March 2018 Miss S paid £100 
toward her excess. I understand  Miss S has an additional  policy  which allows  her to claim 
back some  or all of the excess she owes under this claim.  As this is a separate policy  it 
doesnt form part of my decision.  
Ref: DRN74894312One arranged  for an AR to collect Miss Ss car for inspection on 17 March 2018. But the 
truck was too small to collect Miss Ss car. So the collection  didnt happen.
Miss S had to call One to chase for an update the following  week.  On 11 April 2018 an AR 
inspected Miss Ss car. This was a month after One had received the documents  it needed  
from Miss S to arrange repairs. 
Miss S said she spoke to the AR on 24 April 2018  and was given an estimate of £3,537.71.  
She asked  the AR how long it would need her car for to repair but the AR told her it couldnt 
give a timescale. 
Miss S obtained two estimates  one which was lower than the ARs for a garage local to 
her. This garage said it would complete the repairs in three days. 
Miss S said she emailed the estimates  to One on 24 April 2018, chased for an update  on 27 
April 2018 and again on 4 May, 14 May,  18 May and 7 June 2018 (copies provided). On 13 
June 2018 Miss S said she spoke to One. It said it would  only pay £1,400  toward the costs 
of the repairs  if Miss S used her own repairer. 
One told us the AR called Miss S to arrange repairs five times between  27 April 2018 and 10 
May 2018. I havent  seen any record of this in Ones claim notes  or the call Miss S had 
with One on 13 June 2018  which prompted her to complain again.
Its claim notes  show an entry on 31 May 2018. One had reviewed the estimate Miss S had 
provided, but reduced the amount it would reimburse her for by applying  its own labour  
rates. This meant that Miss S would need  to pay the difference. But it didnt tell Miss S this 
until 13 June 2018  two weeks later.
Ones policy says that if Miss S doesnt  use an AR, it may not pay more than the amount its 
AR would have charged. It doesnt  say that it will reduce the estimate by applying  its own AR 
labour rates.  In any event, I think Miss S tried to use an AR but One failed to deal with her 
claim in a timely manner.  And eventually  after giving notice to One  Miss S arranged for 
her car to be repaired by a local garage. The final repair bill was still less than the ARs 
estimate. 
I think its unlikely that the ARs final bill would have been less than its estimate if a full 
physical inspection had taken place. Based on similar cases Ive seen, I think its more likely 
a more detailed  inspection might have uncovered further damage  not less. So the amount 
Miss S paid - by arranging repairs herself  - is a reasonable sum which I think One should 
pay under  the terms of the policy  minus  the correct excess.  I can understand why Miss S 
decided to arrange repairs herself  by July 2018.  
Miss Ss policy says that if Miss S uses an approved repairer, shes  entitled  to a temporary 
replacement car. Miss S paid for a hire car for three  days while  her local garage  repaired her 
car. The adjudicator  told One in October  2019 that I thought it was fair and reasonable for 
One to reimburse  Miss S for these costs  in addition to his recommendations. One agreed  
with this  but reiterated that Miss S didnt  need to use her own garage as one of its ARs 
would have repaired her car. It said Miss S would  need to pay the difference in repair costs. 
Ref: DRN74894313But I think if One had dealt with Miss Ss claim in a reasonable  timeframe, she would have  
used an AR and had use of a courtesy  car. And even with the inclusion of the hire car costs 
of £171.89, the total cost including repairs still comes to less than the ARs estimate.  
Miss S has provided a copy of her bank  statement  along  with the original invoice  to show  
what she paid for car hire. 
I think Miss S has been put to considerable distress  and inconvenience. She chased One on 
many occasions for an update on her claim. She waited  for her car to be collected  but the 
collection failed. She then made arrangements  with a local garage to book her car in  and 
made her own arrangements for car hire. I think she did all she could to mitigate her losses.
In addition to reimbursing Miss S for hire car and the repairs (subject to the appropriate  
excess) I think One should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. Miss S said she didnt  send One the final bill as she didnt expect  it to reply. I 
dont think this makes a difference as One didnt agree it should cover  the full repair  costs  
anyway. Miss S waited  four months before arranging  repairs  herself. And the costs  came to 
£3,139.98 which I think is a significant sum for a customer to be out of pocket for. So I think  
its fair and reasonable for One to pay interest  on the costs Miss S paid for repairs and car 
hire from the date she paid to the date One reimburses her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to do the 
following: 
reimburse Miss S for the costs of the repairs and car hire minus the applicable 
excess to settle  her claim (proof of payment provided).
pay interest on the car hire and repair costs at a rate of 8% simple interest from the 
date Miss S paid to the date One reimburses her. 
pay Miss S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7489431