K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mrs S says Barclays Bank  UK PLC(Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out PPI and she chose to 
take it out. The PPI appears to have been sold on the phone. Barclays  no longer have a 
copy of the call recording  this is understandable given how long ago the sale took 
place. But it has provided us with call scripts  which show that the PPI would have been 
presented as optional. I appreciate  Mrs S says that she was told that taking PPI would 
benefit her application.  Of course its possible Mrs S was told this, but I just havent  seen  
sufficient evidence  to conclude that this is what is more likely to have  happened.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays  got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about  that. Because  
Barclays didnt tell Mrs S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what she has said about her 
employee benefits and savings. But these  points dont change  my decision. I appreciate   
Mrs S would have received generous  benefits  from her employer and had savings  but the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to these benefits and savings. Mrs Ss pay would have 
dropped to half after six months  and I think the PPI would have been particularly useful to 
Mrs S at that point.
Ref: DRN77840272my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784027