K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Miss C in 1999, in connection  with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Miss C if she couldnt  work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Cs needs?
-Did Halifax give Miss C the information  she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Miss C is worse off as a result. That is, would  she have  done something different  such  as 
not taking out the policy   if there hadnt been any problems  with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss C says she didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account,  and that she wasnt 
given a proper  choice about  whether to take out the policy.  Ive noted everything shes said, 
and Ive also considered the paperwork that was completed when Miss C applied  for her 
mortgage.
I note that the mortgage application  form included a section about PPI that said:
We recommend that you consider our Mortgage Repayment Insurance  Scheme. The 
Scheme provides you with insurance against  accident, sickness and involuntary 
unemployment to give you peace  of mind  if you are, for unforeseeable  reasons, unable to 
work
Ref: DRN70272572Miss C ticked  the box that said:
Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  Repayments Insurance.
She also added her signature against  this box.
There was a box directly below the box she ticked and signed that said:
No, I do not wish to take advantage of Mortgage  Repayment Insurance. I understand that I 
will be responsible for my repayments each month  if I am unable to work.
In addition to the mortgage application, Miss C also completed  a separate  application form to 
apply for the PPI.
So from what Ive seen,  I think Halifax made Miss C aware that she had a choice about 
whether to take the PPI. I think she would  have known the PPI was optional  and chose to 
take it out.
Halifax accepts that it advised Miss C to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. I say this because:
-Miss C was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Miss C says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work due to 
sickness or accident, and that she was covered by its redundancy package. Miss C has also 
mentioned a friends PPI claim that was successful because of her employers redundancy 
package. So I can see why Miss C might  this her complaint should  also succeed.
But we assess each  PPI complaint individually.  And just because  the circumstances of one 
complaint mean that its upheld, it doesnt necessarily mean that a complaint with 
circumstances that appear similar  will also be upheld.
In this case, the policy would have paid out in addition to Miss Cs employer sick pay, and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy  in place wouldve meant Miss C could  use 
her employer benefits to pay for other expenses if she couldnt work.  
Miss C hasnt specified what her redundancy package was from her employer. But I 
understand shed  only been  working  for her employer for about three months when she 
applied for the mortgage. So I cant be sure that any redundancy benefits she was entitled to 
from her employer wouldve paid out for longer than the policys benefits.   
So overall I think Miss C would have had some  use for the policy despite her existing 
arrangements.
-Miss C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such as 
those affecting  self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have  benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Miss C needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Miss C before she agreed to buy it. But she 
took out the cover knowing she would have to pay something for it. The policy  was 
Ref: DRN70272573competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Miss C would have 
made a different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already  said, Miss C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss C would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided   overall,  I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027257