K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about her rental  property  insurer Fairmead Insurance  Limited, she 
feels it delayed her water damage claim and unfairly  refused to pay lost rent.
background
Mrs T called Fairmead on 11 December 2018 to notify it of a water leak at a property she 
owns and lets out. Fairmead, after some  short delay (for which  it apologised and paid 
compensation), accepted the claim.  
Mrs T sent Fairmead estimates for the cost of repair as well as the invoice for trace and 
access work. Fairmead asked for more information. An initial  settlement offer was made but 
then reduced when Fairmead  realised there  was no asbestos to remove.  It took Fairmead a 
little while  to settle the trace and access claim.  Towards the end of January 2019  Mrs T 
complained to Fairmead. It felt it had asked for reasonable information but accepted it should 
have explained  that the initial  offer was subject to positive asbestos tests being  returned. It 
also accepted  that the trace and access settlement had been delayed. Fairmead offered 
£100 compensation. 
Mrs T was dissatisfied by this and, in March 2018,  complained to us. Meanwhile her claim 
progressed. Fairmead  appointed  a loss adjuster and began drying the property. The loss 
adjuster noted  that there shouldnt be any need  to move the tenants out of the property for 
work to be done,  and that the tenants actually wanted to stay,  they had dogs and said theyd 
live around the works.
In April 2019, whilst we were still progressing Mrs Ts complaint,  she told us the tenant had 
had moved out early.  In August 2019  Mrs T said repairs had been completed and in 
November 2019  she said Fairmead werent  paying her for rent lost. She thought it should. In 
January 2020,  Fairmead, after Mrs T complained to it about lost rent, said the property 
hadnt been uninhabitable and the policy required this for lost rent to be paid. It also noted 
that the tenants hadnt wanted to move out. Fairmead told us it was happy for us to look at 
the loss of rent issue alongside  the concerns Mrs T had originally brought to us in 
March 2019.
Our investigator felt that Fairmead had offered reasonable compensation for the way it had 
handled matters  to February 2019.  He also felt it had considered  and declined  the loss of 
rent claim fairly. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs T said she was dissatisfied. She thought Fairmead should have offered her more 
compensation given the experience shed had. She asked  for an ombudsmans 
consideration.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that Fairmead  handled  this claim, for repairs  and lost rent, fairly 
and reasonably. Im not upholding the complaint.  
Ref: DRN77898862The fact of an incident that results  in a claim often  causes  distress and inconvenience. It is 
usually the case  that validating a claim and organising settlement and/or repairs  takes time. 
I know it was frustrating  for Mrs T as landlord to see her tenants living in a damaged  house  
whilst Fairmead  progressed  her claim but I dont  award compensation for upset like this 
which flows naturally from the incident that gave rise to the claim.
I know Mrs T was unhappy about  providing  information to Fairmead and it questioning that. 
But Fairmead needed to validate  the claim and Mrs T had a duty to cooperate with that. 
I think Fairmead acted fairly  and reasonably  in considering the evidence and asking for the 
further information. 
But Fairmead shouldnt  have raised  Mrs Ts expectations unfairly regarding  the original offer 
made. It should have  taken more care to be clear  about the aspects of the settlement that 
were or might be subject  to further  review  once more detail became available about  what  
repairs would actually  be necessary. I accept that, without having  been forewarned, the 
reduction was frustrating for Mrs T. 
I also accept that Fairmead should have settled the trace and access  charges sooner. The 
fact that this took too long added  to Mrs Ts frustration.
Clearly Fairmead could have handled  things better in the early  stages of this claim. 
However, Im satisfied that £100  compensation for the upset those errors caused  Mrs T is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It must have been upsetting for Mrs T when her tenants moved out early.  I can only assume 
they were no longer  willing  to live in the house in its damaged state and through  the 
necessary repairs. Whilst it is clear that such damage and repairs  would be difficult to live 
with, the policy doesnt offer cover for rent lost in those circumstances. The policy  only 
covers lost rent when  the home is uninhabitable.  Having seen Fairmeads loss adjusters 
report on damage dated 8 March 2019,  Im satisfied  that the home  wasnt  uninhabitable. 
I think Fairmeads decline of this aspect of the claim was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7789886