K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that she should not have to pay Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning 
Limited (Joslin Rhodes)  4% of the value of her pension  for the advice she received due to 
the level of service she received.
background
Mrs H met with Joslin Rhodes to discuss her finances. She was going to get a divorce and 
wanted to know  if she could support herself.  Ultimately, Joslin  Rhodes recommended that 
she transfer her existing SIPP to another SIPP provider and pay it for ongoing investment 
advice.
A client agreement was signed on 25 February  2019, this set out the terms of the 
relationship between Mrs H and Joslin Rhodes.  This said:
What Services  Are Being  Provided?
Implementing any agreed actions required in relation to your financial products as
identified and agreed during the Explore,  Plan & Specify phases & arranging  any new
regulated Financial products as part of the Build  stage of the Planhappy process. We
are Independent Financial  Planners. This means that we will assess  a sufficient
range of relevant products available on the market  which is diverse in terms of
product type and provider to ensure that your investment objectives can be suitably
met, we do not have  any commercial relationships with any insurance companies,
banks, pension providers  or fund managers.  When looking to address  your protection
needs, we will provide advice based  on a fair and personal analysis of the market.
Our only duty of care is to you. We will advise on solutions chosen with a free hand
from the whole market to serve your best interests.
And
Charge Examples
Charges are calculated on a percentage basis determined  by the type of product that
you require and the amount that you require us to be responsible for
And
What Happens If You Change Your Mind?
Financial products that may be arranged as part of this agreement  may include a
statutory cancellation  period. Although the fees within  this agreement may, by
agreement and where possible,  be collected from the funds within  the product, they
are for services  provided as stated within this agreement  and separate  to the product
itself. Statutory regulations may mean that if you cancel a product within the
cancellation period then the product provider may be obliged  to reinstate your funds
to the original amount and they may reclaim from us any fees due under this
agreement, that have  been paid from your product  funds. In this event the fees within
this agreement remain payable and you will be required to settle them  immediately.
Your existing or alternatively arranged  provider may not provide a mechanism  to
allow your product to facilitate this and it is recommended that you check  this with
Ref: DRN74998372them prior to cancelling any products as you will remain liable for the fees within  this
agreement in any event.  This means that, in certain circumstances, you might  not get
back the full amount you invested if you cancel the policy. Ongoing  Investment
Advice services can be cancelled at any time by informing us in writing. You will be
charged for any services  provided prior to cancellation.
And
What do you receive & What does it cost?
Build Service  Product Implementation
-Professional responsibility  for the advice provided to you by Joslin  Rhodes  which  is 
authorised & regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)
-Coverage of the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS)  in the event  that 
we are unable  to meet our obligations
-Access to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) in the event of any advice 
dispute
-Portfolio construction  & due diligence on fund purchase transactions
-Completion of all application & transfer  documentation
-Representing your interests during any transfer  & implementation
-Dealing with any issues as and when they arise
We have also been provided with the terms of agreement signed by Mrs H, amongst other 
things, this set out that:
What Happens If You Change Your Mind?
If you change your mind before signing this agreement and you have opted for the 
Plan fees to be deducted from your investments then those will be invoiced for your 
direct payment within 14 days. If you change your mind after signing this agreement,  
but before  we receive your funds under management, and you have opted  for the 
Build fees and Plan fees to be deducted  from your investments, then those will be 
invoiced for your direct  payment within 14 days.  If you change  your mind after we 
have received your funds  but within a products statutory cancellation period then you 
should take into account that although  the fees within  this agreement may, by 
agreement and where possible,  be collected from the funds within  the product, they 
are for advice services  provided as stated  within this agreement  and separate to the 
product itself.
Joslin Rhodes recommended  that Mrs H switch  her existing SIPP to a different provider, 
enter into flexible drawdown,  withdraw maximum tax-free cash and place the residual fund 
under Joslin Rhodes  ongoing management.
During the meeting of 25 February 2019,  Mrs H decided she wanted to proceed with the 
switch to a new SIPP,  but it was agreed  that to reduce potential costs she would arrange for 
the disinvestment of the investments she held within her existing SIPP herself.
A couple of days after the meeting, Mrs H was emailed  by Joslin  Rhodes  to ask if she had 
initiated the sale of her funds. On 27 February  2019, Mrs H responded saying  it had been  
agreed that she would initiate  this the following week. The next day Joslin  Rhodes  contacted  
Mrs H to ask her to let it know once she had disinvested  her funds, she again  confirmed she 
had not and that she would be doing  it the following week  as previously agreed. Joslin 
Ref: DRN74998373Rhodes confirmed  that it would instruct the new SIPP provider to hold off processing the 
paperwork until she had confirmed the sale of the funds.
It transpired that the new SIPP provider  had already processed the paperwork. Joslin  
Rhodes contacted Mrs H to inform her of this and she confirmed at this stage she did not 
want to go ahead with the switch.
On 5 March 2019,  Joslin  Rhodes issued an invoice to Mrs H for the Lifestyle Financial 
Planning Report  (£395)  and an initial advice fee of 4% of the value  of Mrs Hs pension  
(£2,435.94).
Mrs H paid for the report but did not think she should have to pay the £2,435.94 given the 
service she received and what  happened. Joslin Rhodes maintained  that Mrs H had to pay 
the initial advice  fee. She subsequently complained, Joslin Rhodes issued its final response 
letter, it did not uphold  her complaint. It said that the fees had been made clear  to her, she 
agreed to these and in line with the terms she agreed to the initial advice fee was payable 
even though she changed her mind.
Unhappy with its response, Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld.  
He thought that Joslin Rhodes were entitled to the fee. Mrs H disagreed  she maintained  the 
she was not aware  of the £2,435.94 fee in advance.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
my provisional decision to Mrs H and Joslin Rhodes, explaining why the complaint should be 
upheld and that Mrs H should not have to pay the 4% fee. 
Both parties  agreed with my provisional decision,  so my findings  remain as set out in my 
provisional decision. I have reiterated  these below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.  
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
Ref: DRN74998374be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every 
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
Mrs H says that the fees were not made clear to her. Based on the paperwork provided, I 
think Mrs H was provided with information  about  the fees and she agreed to these. I dont 
know if the fees were  explained to her in detail but based on the agreements  she signed  I 
am unable  to conclude that she was not made  aware of these.
The information provided describes the disputed fee as Build Service  Product 
Implementation. This appears to effectively  be a contingent fee applicable  only when a 
consumer goes ahead with Joslin Rhodes advice. The services the fee covers  are described 
as: 
-Professional responsibility  for the advice provided to you by Joslin  Rhodes  which  is 
authorised & regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)
-Coverage of the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS)  in the event  that 
we are unable  to meet our obligations
-Access to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) in the event of any advice 
dispute
-Portfolio construction  & due diligence on fund purchase transactions
-Completion of all application & transfer  documentation
-Representing your interests during any transfer  & implementation
-Dealing with any issues as and when they arise
Mrs H changed her mind before she had received some of the services that were covered  by 
the fee. Based on this and what happened, I can understand why Mrs H doesnt think  it is 
fair for her to have to pay the fees beyond  the fee for the advice report. That said,  Joslin  
Rhodes paperwork does confirm that the fee is still payable if Mrs H changes her mind  at 
the point that she did. So, ordinarily, I would  have to conclude that Mrs H should pay the fee 
in line with the agreement.
When looking into a complaint, I can look beyond the complaint as raised. As part of looking 
into Mrs Hs concerns about the service she received from Joslin Rhodes and the fees it is 
demanding, I have  considered the suitability of the advice she received. I dont think  I could 
fairly decide this complaint without taking  into account the suitability of the advice.
Joslin Rhodes was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator,  when 
providing Mrs H with advice. All of this needs  to be considered through  the lens, so to speak, 
of the overarching principles for businesses  in particular,  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due 
skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers  interests) and 9 (reasonable care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required Joslin  Rhodes  to gather the 
necessary information  about Mrs Hs knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type
of designated investment, her financial situation and investment objectives. This was to 
enable it to make a recommendation which was suitable for Mrs H.
COBS 9.2.2 required Joslin Rhodes to gather enough information  to ensure that the 
recommendation; met her objectives, that she could bear the risks involved and had 
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst  other things,  to fulfil its duties Joslin Rhodes had to know its client, act in her 
best interests and give suitable advice.
Ref: DRN74998375Mrs H approached Joslin Rhodes for advice and to see if she could get by financially going 
forward by herself. At the time of the advice  it appears Mrs H was concerned  about  her 
financial future because  she was getting  a divorce  and it appears,  she did not know  what the 
settlement would be. Mrs Hs basic circumstances were recorded as follows:
Mrs H was aged 55.
She had SIPP valued  at £60,000  and an Occupational Pension Scheme with a 
transfer value  of £267,000.
She received  an income of £12,000 due to continue until 2020  at which  point, she 
would look for work elsewhere.
She did not have  any investments and savings.
As noted above,  Joslin Rhodes recommended that Mrs H switch  her SIPP to a new provider, 
go into flexible drawdown, draw full tax-free  cash and keep the remaining fund under its 
management. It also recommended that she retain  her OPS.
Mrs H was understandably concerned about  her future and how she would manage
financially on her own. What she would  receive financially through  any future divorce
settlement was not definite, and she was not sure what her employment situation  would be 
or her level of income.  On that basis it made  sense for her to look into what her options 
might be and the level of income she would need to maintain a comfortable lifestyle.  
However, I am not persuaded that it was sensible for her to be making permanent changes  
to her pension arrangements or incur  additional costs in respect  of these. Particularly  not 
before her future finances were  clearer.
It is not clear  why Mrs H needed to switch to a new SIPP  or go into drawdown or have her 
relatively modest pension  managed by Joslin Rhodes at extra cost. And, given  that it 
recommended a cautious to medium approach to investing her pension, it would have been 
unlikely that it would  enjoy a return sufficient  to stop the funds being depleted by income 
withdrawals.
Overall, I dont  think Joslin  Rhodes  recommendation  was suitable. Mrs H did not go ahead  
with the recommendation, so there is nothing to be put right in terms of her pension, but I 
think it would  be fair for Mrs H to not have to pay the 4% (£2,435.94) fee.
I acknowledge that Joslin Rhodes did undertake work on Mrs Hs behalf and that the 
implementation process had begun  albeit far from completed  when Mrs H changed her 
mind and decided  not to go ahead with its advice. So, under  the terms of its agreement with 
Mrs H it would typically be entitled to the 4% fee but, under the circumstances,  I am satisfied  
that it is fair and reasonable for the fee to be waived.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld, I direct Joslin Rhodes
Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to waive the £2,435.94 fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
Ref: DRN74998376ombudsman
Ref: DRN7499837