K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Nationwide Building Society trading as Derbyshire Building  
Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when 
they took out a mortgage.
background
In November 2018 I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I was intending  to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both parties to provide any further information they wished me to consider before I 
issued my final decision.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  send  me anything further to look at. Nationwide  disagreed  with my 
provisional findings. In summary it said as follows:
It had already refunded the unemployment part of Mrs Fs share of the policy. It 
refuted that the rest of the policy - the accident and sickness cover for Mrs F and the 
accident, sickness and unemployment  part of the cover for Mr F- was mis-sold.
It pointed out that as this was a non -advised  sale, it was up to Mr and Mrs F to 
choose the level of cover  they wanted. And it said that it had fulfilled its obligations 
It could see no reason why Mr and Mrs F wouldnt  have been able to take out 
different levels  of cover. They would only have been  required to complete two 
separate application forms to indicate the level of cover  they wanted for each party  
and two separate policies would have been  set up.
I said in my provisional decision that it looks like they wanted the unemployment part 
of the cover as they chose it in 1999. But it was not up to the ombudsman  to decide 
what type of cover  they wanted. As it was so long ago Nationwide said I couldnt 
know the level of cover Mr and Mrs F wanted  at the time. 
It could see no reason that the policy wouldnt have paid out if Mrs F was off work 
due to a disability and Mr F could  have also claimed for accident, sickness and/or 
unemployment.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  this complaint.
And Ive decided on balance what would be more  likely where the information  is incomplete.
I dont think this was a recommended sale, which meant that Nationwide  didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the PPI was suitable. But it still needed to give Mr and Mrs F 
Ref: DRN77060192clear enough  information  so that they could decide  for themselves whether or not to take it 
out.
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs F them information that was clear enough so they 
could make an informed  decision. And I think that they would  have been  put off buying the 
policy if theyd been given clearer information.  So I dont think Nationwide  fulfilled its 
obligations here.
When applying for the PPI, both Mr and Mrs F chose cover for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. Nationwide has paid back the unemployment part of the policy so this part of 
the cover  wasnt right for Mrs F. The information  on the form did not make it clear that the 
unemployment part of the policy wouldnt be right for Mrs F and as she chose it when she 
applied I think on balance  its more  likely  she wanted cover for unemployment.  So all in all, I 
cant say it would have  been clear that Mr and Mrs F could pick and choose which elements 
of cover they wanted or that they would  need  to fill in two separate  application forms to get 
differing levels  of benefit for each of them. The way the form is set out is as a joint 
application form  so I dont think they would have thought that they had to fill in separate 
forms if they wanted different levels of cover. 
Ive looked closely  at the sample application form Nationwide has provided. Nowhere on this 
form makes it clear  about the policy terms and conditions or exclusions of the policy. And it 
wouldnt have been clear that Mr and Mrs F would have had to ask for another separate  
application if each  wanted a different level of cover. 
In my provisional decision I have outlined various  options that Mr and Mrs F could have 
chosen. And I said, I didnt agree that the policy which offered Mr F full accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover and Mrs F accident  and sickness cover only would have been the 
policy they would have chosen.  Thinking about  everything, for the reasons Ive explained 
here and in my provisional decision,  on balance  I dont think Mr and Mrs F would  have taken 
out any cover with Nationwide at all.
So on balance, I think they would have been put off buying the policy  if they had been given 
clearer information that the policy wasnt right for Mrs F because  of her employment  
situation. 
So I think they lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. And I uphold this complaint in 
full.
Ref: DRN77060193putting things right
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs F in the position  theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI at all. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  
already, and Nationwide Building  Society  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the full amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
And any money already paid back to Mrs F for the unemployment part of the PPI can 
also be deducted from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs F. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building  Society  should  
pay compensation as set out in the putting  things  right  section  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77060194copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Nationwide  Building  Society trading as Derbyshire Building Society 
(Nationwide) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy when they took out a 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  in their joint names in1999. At the same time they bought a 
monthly premium  PPI policy which covered them both equally, if they were off work because they 
were unwell, had an accident, or if they lost their job. It cost £152.95 per year and on a successful 
claim it would  have paid out the sum of £267 per month for up to 12 months at a time split between 
Mr and Mrs F 50/50.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs F complained about the sale of the PPI.
Nationwide thought that the policy wasnt quite  right for Mrs F. It said the nature of her employment  
meant she might not be able to make  a successful claim  if she lost her job and it paid back  the cost of 
the unemployment  part of the policy to her. But it said that in all other aspects the policy  was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this offer was fair. They  said the whole policy was mis-sold to them  and 
Nationwide should repay all the premiums they paid plus interest.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with this view 
and asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having considered  this case carefully, I am intending  to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
 
I dont think its likely  Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. Theres nothing to make me 
think a tailored recommendation  was made about the PPI. That meant that Nationwide didnt need to 
check it was a good  fit for their needs. But it still had to give Mr and Mrs F enough  clear information so 
they could make  an informed decision about whether or not it was right for them.
Nationwide doesnt  have the actual application form from the time Mr and Mrs F took out the 
mortgage and the PPI. But it has sent some examples of the forms likely used  at the time. I think  
these forms  are representative of what Mr and Mrs F would have seen at the time. I can see that Mr 
and Mrs F could choose  the level of cover between accident, sickness and unemployment cover;  
accident and sickness; or unemployment only cover. And I think they would  have had to complete an 
application form to get the cover they wanted. 
Having looked at the application forms I dont think the information was clear. Theres nothing on the 
forms which would have made it clear that the policy  wasnt right for Mrs Fs circumstances as she 
worked part time in two jobs and the policy  terms would  have meant it would have been difficult for 
her to make  a claim.
Nationwide has accepted that the unemployment part of the policy wasnt right for Mrs F and it has 
repaid her the cost of the unemployment part of the cover. Instead Nationwide  thought that Mr F 
Ref: DRN77060195would have bought the full accident, sickness and unemployment cover and Mrs F would  have bought 
the accident and sickness cover only. I need to decide if that would have been the policy Mr and Mrs 
F would have  taken out if Mrs F would have known the unemployment cover wasnt right for her.
After carefully taking into account Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances as well as all the available evidence 
from the time, I dont  agree that the policy  which offered Mr F full accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover  and Mrs F accident and sickness cover  only would have been the policy they 
would have chosen. Thinking about everything, I dont think  Mr and Mrs F would have taken out any 
cover with Nationwide at all.
Nationwide has provided example application forms of the type it says would have been  used at the 
time. Looking  at the sample of the application forms, there would  have been no option for Mr F to take 
out one level of cover  and Mrs F to take out another level of cover. It looks like if they would have 
realised that the cover for unemployment wasnt right for Mrs F, they both would have had to decide  
between three  different  options and thinking about all of these choices I dont  think  any of them would 
have been right for them.
The first choice would have been for them both to take out the accident and sickness cover only.  I 
dont think they would have  wanted this type of cover as it would have meant  that if either  had lost 
their jobs they wouldnt have had any insurance at all to cover them  in that eventuality. And it looks 
like they wanted the unemployment  part of the cover as they both chose it in 1999 when  they took out 
the PPI.
The second  option would have been for only Mr F to be covered by the policy for 50 % of the 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. I dont think that Mr F being  covered  for 50% of the 
mortgage repayments would  have  been  right either. The mortgage was in joint names and Mr F was 
the higher earner. If he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or if he lost his job then I dont  
think cover  for 50% of the mortgage repayments would  have been enough  to meet the shortfall  in 
their income  and so I dont  think the cover would  have been  useful.
And then I have thought about Mr F taking all the benefit of the policy so he was solely  covered if he 
had an accident or fell ill and couldnt work, or if he lost his job. But as Mrs F also worked  and she 
was jointly responsible  for the mortgage repayments there would  have still been a shortfall  in their 
income if she lost her job and couldnt  make a claim.  And I think  they chose the cover  for both of 
them.
In any event I note Mr Fs employer  provided  him with a good level of sick pay which  Mrs F didnt  
receive in her two part-time roles. So I think theyd have been more  concerned with covering Mrs F 
against being  off work.
So on balance, I think they would  have  been  put off buying the policy if they had been given clearer  
information that the policy  wasnt  right for Mrs F because of her employment  situation.  
So I think they lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.  And I intend to uphold  this complaint in 
full
putting things  right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs F in the position theyd  be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI at all. The policy  should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already,  and 
Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the full amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN77060196If Mr and Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
And any money already paid back to Mrs F for the unemployment part of the PPI can also be 
deducted from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs F. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide Building Society must give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and direct  Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr and 
Mrs F compensation as set out above. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7706019