K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) accepted she was at fault for 
an accident, which she disputes.
background
 
Miss M holds a motor  insurance policy which is underwritten by CIS General Insurance  
Limited.
In March 2018 Miss M was involved in a collision  with another  car. She was pulling out of a 
petrol station  across several  lanes of traffic to turn right. The first two lanes of traffic  stopped  
to let her go. But her car collided with another  travelling  in the third lane of traffic - the front of 
her car impacted the side of the other car.
Miss M says that she was stationary when the collision occurred. She says the driver was 
driving erratically, and at speed, using  the lane to overtake the stationary  cars that were  
letting her out. The other driver says he was proceeding  safely  in his lane and that Miss M 
was moving forward across the lanes and drove into the side of his car.
Miss M raised  a claim with CIS stating the other driver was at fault. The other  driver  disputed 
liability. CIS initially confirmed that it would try to obtain a shared liability  basis  and arranged 
repairs for Miss Ms car. But after a review by its claims office  it informed Miss M that it felt 
she was at fault for the accident. Miss M wasnt happy with CISs decision  particularly  
because it hadnt  obtained CCTV evidence of the incident from the petrol station. Her 
concerns were escalated  as a complaint.
CIS issued  a final response in May 2018. This stated that it had attempted  to obtain  the 
CCTV evidence, and that it couldnt  control if/when the petrol  station would respond.  Based 
on information available at that point,  it agreed  that the claims departments decision to 
admit liability, on a without prejudice basis, was correct. But it confirmed that the liability 
issue hadnt yet been fully settled.  Instead, a firm of solicitors  had been  instructed to confirm  
liability and handle the claim moving  forward.
In order to establish liability, the solicitors  instructed an independent  engineer to determine  
which side was most  likely  at fault for the collision.  The report  was completed in 
September 2018, and was based on photographs and statements from all parties. The 
engineer didnt inspect either car directly.  
The report  found  that the damage sustained to Miss Ms front bumper indicated it was 
unlikely that Miss Ms car was stationary at the point of impact. It said the damage to other  
car indicated  that it was unlikely the other car was travelling at speed, as Miss M had said. 
Ultimately it found that the evidence available indicated that Miss Ms moving  car collided 
with the side of the other car while it was moving slowly  as alleged  by the other  driver.
The solicitors wrote to Miss M and explained it felt that if the information were before a 
judge, they would most  likely find she was at fault.  It said based on the available evidence  it 
intended to settle the claim with Miss M as the person responsible  for the collision.
Ref: DRN71122592CIS sent a new final response letter in October 2018. Based on the findings of the 
independent engineers report it said it wasnt upholding her complaint. CIS said its decision 
to accept that Miss M was at fault for the claim hadnt changed. It also said it made several  
attempts to recover the CCTV, so it didnt uphold  that aspect of her complaint  either.  
Miss M brought her complaint to our service in October 2018. It was initially  looked at by one 
of our investigators. After reviewing the evidence provided, he sent his assessment to both 
sides explaining  that he didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld.  He said the 
Highway Traffic Code  specifies that the other  car had priority. He said this meant  that unless 
there was strong evidence that the other  car was reckless or careless; Miss M would be held 
at fault. Ultimately he didnt think CISs decision to accept that Miss M was at fault was 
unfair, based on the evidence available. 
Miss M didnt agree. She reiterated her unhappiness  that CIS hadnt obtained CCTV 
evidence. She felt it had deliberately not obtained  this. She also provided her comments  on 
some of the evidence our investigator relied on. 
Our investigator responded in November  2018 explaining that Miss Ms further submissions 
hadnt changed his opinion. He acknowledged  it was unfortunate that the CCTV hadnt  been 
obtained and was no longer available. But he didnt agree that CIS wouldve done this 
deliberately. He said it was in CISs  interest to support Miss Ms position, and that it had tried 
to do so by commissioning the independent report. He explained that hed placed a lot of 
weight on the independent expert report  which found that Miss M was most likely at fault.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators assessment. So her complaint has now been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Miss M that Ive thought very carefully about everything shes  said and 
provided. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why in 
more detail.
My role here isnt to determine who was at fault for the collision. I need to decide  whether I 
think CIS handled Miss Ms claim in a fair and reasonable way  based on the evidence  it 
had available. 
To decide whether I think CIS acted fairly  Ive considered what  her policy says. Like every  
other motor  insurance  policy Ive seen, Miss Ms policy allows CIS to take over and conduct  
the defence or settlement of any claim. But it needs  to be fair to Miss M in settling the claim. 
By that I mean when its more likely than not the claim against  Miss M would succeed in 
court. This is because  CIS wouldnt want to risk all the costs and expenses  in defending a 
claim that theyre likely  to lose in court.
From what  Ive seen, CIS considered both Miss Ms and the other drivers statements and 
versions of events. It reviewed photographs  of the damage to both cars and looked into the 
scene of the accident online. It considered the rules  of the Highway Code, and also 
requested CCTV footage  from the petrol station within a week of the accident. 
Ref: DRN71122593CIS appointed solicitors  to handle the claim on Miss Ms behalf  and they commissioned an 
independent engineers report. This report found that the damage  to the cars supported the 
other drivers  version of events, rather than Miss Ms. 
The solicitors that CIS appointed thought that a court would be likely to decide that Miss M 
was at fault for the incident,  based on the evidence available. It pointed out that:
the other driver  had right of way and, by undertaking the manoeuvre  she did, Miss M 
was intending  to cross that lane
 
the photographs show that Miss M had encroached into the third lane at the point the 
collision took place
the other driver's  vehicle has stopped  in contact with Miss Ms, suggesting that they 
werent travelling particularly quickly at the initial point  of impact
whilst  there is damage to the front of Miss Ms vehicle  in a right to left direction, the 
engineers assessment  is that the main damage  runs in a front to rear direction. His 
opinion is that this would only be caused  if Miss Ms vehicle  had been moving 
forward at the point of impact
were all of the evidence before a court they believe  that a judge would be far more 
likely to find in favour  of the other  driver
I appreciate Miss M feels strongly that the other driver was at fault. Ive thought  carefully 
about all of the points shes raised,  including what she said about the issues in the other 
drivers statement and about  the scratches and dents  on the cars. But from what  Ive seen, 
CIS has fully investigated her claim.  
I understand Miss Ms concern that CIS wasnt able to obtain  the CCTV footage. But it did 
attempt to do so very early on. I dont think it would  be reasonable to hold CIS responsible  
for the fact that the petrol station didnt  provide  it. 
While I understand this has been  very frustrating for Miss M, I dont think there is anything  
else CIS couldve done to investigate  or defend the claim. Based on this I think  was fair and 
reasonable for it to accept liability and settle  the claim.  So I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against  CIS General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7112259