K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) rejected a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
On 19 September  2018 Mr C booked four nights accommodation with a hotel  Ill call A. He 
paid the deposit using  his Nationwide  credit card. The payment was made to the hotel but 
the booking was made through  an online booking site Ill call B.
Mr C subsequently  received an email  directly from the hotel. The email  said that the balance 
would need to be paid in cash.
Mr C didnt feel safe carrying  a relatively  large sum of cash in a city he didnt know so he 
wanted to cancel. But the hotel explained  the booking  was non refundable and although 
Mr C didnt stay there;  they debited  £200 from his account later that month  in full payment.
Mr C complained to Nationwide. He said that section 75 gave him a like claim against the 
provider of credit (Nationwide) as he had against  A. 
Nationwide rejected his claim. They said that in order for a section 75 claim to be approved  
there would need  to be a valid link between  the creditor  (Nationwide),  the debtor (Mr C and 
the supplier (A). But they said this link was broken as there  was a fourth party,  B, involved.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
thought Nationwide had been unreasonable when they rejected Mr Cs claim. He said the 
hotel had misrepresented  the booking as the information on the website about payment was 
presumably provided by them  and had led Mr C to assume that a card payment was 
possible. He noted that Nationwide had suggested  the hotel must  be able to take a credit  
card payment as one had been taken  for the deposit. So he called the hotel  himself  and they 
explained they didnt have  a card terminal and would only take cash at the property. So he 
was satisfied that it wouldnt have been possible for Mr C to pay with a card.  He thought  the 
deal had been misrepresented to him and it would therefore be fair for Nationwide  to refund 
the accommodation cost of £278  and add 8% interest to the payment.
Nationwide didnt agree  with the investigator. They said there was no evidence hed been 
assured he could pay by card and they noted  from his account statement that it appeared 
hed booked alternative accommodation  before B had dealt with his complaint and explained 
the booking was non refundable. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators opinion. I know that will disappoint Nationwide so please  let 
me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN73381772Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So if I was satisfied that Mr Cs agreement was misrepresented by A and if I 
was persuaded  Mr C would not have proceeded with the agreement if hed known the true 
facts then Id think it fair and reasonable that Nationwide  refund him.
But for the creditor, Nationwide in this case, to have that liability  it needs  to have a relevant 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Nationwide argues that it hasnt, as they 
say there  was a fourth party involved and that party  broke the relationship.
Ive therefore  considered  the part B played in this transaction. They wont  be able to confirm 
the nature  of the agreement they have with A as they wont  have As permission to do so. 
But I think its most likely, in all the circumstances, that A had whats called a commercial 
entity agreement with B to process  payments. I say that because:
Bs website confirms when you make a booking (through us) you are committed in a 
direct contractual relationship to the provider with whom you made  a reservation it 
goes on to explain that they receive a commission from the provider after the stay.  
So it seems B plays no role in the transaction other than to process the payment ;
the payment  went to the hotel and not to B and that would support the theory  that B 
was only processing  the payment;
the hotel has confirmed they dont  have a payment terminal.  So it seems likely  the 
payment was simply processed  by B who provided that facility.
So Im persuaded  that the nature of the arrangement between A and B does not stop there  
being a valid debtor,  creditor, supplier relationship. 
I think there has been a misrepresentation  by A here. I say that because Mr C was told he 
could pay by credit or debit card when he made the booking but was subsequently told, in an 
email from A, that he couldnt. 
But I also need to be persuaded that the misrepresentation led Mr C to enter into an 
agreement that he would  not have  done  if hed been  aware  of the facts.  Nationwide  have 
suggested Mr C was going to cancel anyway  as theyve noted  he booked  further  
Ref: DRN73381773accommodation before B dealt with his payment  query.  But Im not persuaded thats  the 
case. I think Mr C had made his concerns clear  before that and that the reason he booked 
alternative accommodation (its not completely clear from the statement if the payment made  
on 21 September 2018 was for alternative  accommodation but I think  it seems very likely) is 
because of his concerns  he could not pay by card.  I think if hed known the balance needed 
to be paid in cash  when he paid his deposit  that its likely  he would not have proceeded.
So overall, I think Nationwide havent  dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly  and I think there is 
evidence the accommodation was misrepresented to him. They should therefore  refund the 
costs hes incurred and pay interest on this payment as Mr C has been  deprived of the 
money whilst  the claim has been  ongoing.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Nationwide  Building Society 
to refund the £278 Mr C has paid and add 8% interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7338177