K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited failed to offer her alternative 
accommodation when  carrying out repairs to her property following her home insurance 
claim for a water leak. She also complains that the amount she was offered as a food 
allowance was minimal. 
background
In January 2018 Mrs W made a claim under her home insurance policy for an escape of 
water from a pipe in her bathroom. The leak caused damage to the dining room  walls and 
ceiling below. Lloyds  accepted the claim and appointed a personal  claims consultant  to 
assess the damage and handle  the claim.  
Strip out works were  carried out and dryers  were installed. The walls and ceiling were  then 
reinstated. Contractors  attended the property  between 9.30am and 5pm to carry out the 
works.
Mrs W asked  Lloyds if it could move  her and her family into alternative  accommodation (AA) 
for the two days the strip out works were going  on. Lloyds accepted there  was cover 
provided by the policy for AA but only if the property was considered  to be uninhabitable. As 
Mrs W had a functioning kitchen and bathroom  it said her property couldnt be said to be 
uninhabitable. It paid her a discretionary food allowance  of £10 per person per day for two 
days whilst  the strip out was carried out. Lloyds said if Mrs W could provide  receipts  for any 
additional food expenditure  above and beyond  what shed  normally  incur, and which was a 
result of the works, then it would look at them. 
Mrs W complained  to Lloyds about  its decision not to offer her AA and that the food 
allowance had been inadequate and hadnt included her grandson.  Lloyds looked  into 
Mrs Ws complaint  but didnt think itd done anything wrong.  
Unhappy with Lloyds  decision not to uphold her complaint, Mrs W complained to this 
service. Our adjudicator investigated her complaint  but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  
Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicators findings.  She said shed only been paid a food 
allowance for two days when it shouldve been three. She said the dust in the house during 
the strip out was potentially harmful and that Lloyds hadnt offered any of them  dust masks. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By their very nature,  all insurance claims attract a level of inconvenience for the policyholder. 
When this service looks at complaints about  the way an insurer has handled a claim we 
consider whether the insurers actions have  made  an often already stressful situation worse.  
We look at whether the insurer has caused its policyholder any avoidable stress and 
inconvenience. Having  considered Lloyds  conduct of Mrs Ws claim, I dont think that it has. 
That means I dont  think  Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN76000522The fact that the repairs  to Mrs Ws property required her dining room walls and ceilings to 
be stripped out isnt Lloyds fault.  Nor is the fact that such work was extremely dusty. Both 
are an unavoidable consequence of the claim itself and not a result of any actions taken by 
Lloyds or its agents.  Mrs W has said she was concerned about her 18 month old grandson 
being in such  an environment. Shes  said theres no medical evidence  that his health 
suffered as result because he was taken out each day to avoid the dust. But as Ive said,  the 
fact there was dust isnt Lloyds fault. 
Mrs Ws policy does  indeed provide cover for AA when a property is uninhabitable. What 
amounts to uninhabitable isnt defined  in the policy terms.  But this service  has a long 
standing approach to when  it usually  deems a property in uninhabitable and that is when its 
without cooking  and/or washing  facilities. As Mrs Ws property retained both during the 
repairs it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say the property was uninhabitable. Consequently 
I dont think that Lloyds has treated Mrs W unfairly  by declining  to move her into AA whilst 
the dining room  was stripped out. 
Its worth  mentioning that Ive seen that it was agreed that the builders would  attend  the 
property between 9.30am and 5pm. That means that Mrs W had unfettered access to the 
kitchen at breakfast  and dinner time. I know that in order to get to her kitchen, Mrs W had to 
go through her dining room. I also know that Lloyds contractors said she only had to ask 
and they would allow her safe access during their working day.
The food allowance  paid by Lloyds to Mrs W and her family members was discretionary. 
Theres no provision in the policy for it to be paid but this service considers it to be good 
insurance practice to do so when a property is uninhabitable or theres no access  to cooking  
facilities. Lloyds paid £10 per person (for 4 persons including  Mrs Ws grandson) per day for 
the two days the strip out took. That seems fair to me. If this case  had come  before me 
without such a payment  having been  made it is unlikely I wouldve required Lloyds to pay it 
to Mrs W. Thats because she had access to cooking facilities.  
Mrs W said in response  to our adjudicators opinion that the strip out actually took three days 
so she shouldve been paid a total of £120 not £80. Ive not seen any evidence  that it did 
take that long.  So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to make Lloyds pay Mrs W any more. 
Lloyds has also said to Mrs W that if she can provide it with any details about what she had 
to spend over and above her normal food shop  then it would look at this issue  for her. As far 
as Im aware, Mrs W hasnt provided Lloyds with that information.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600052