K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that a claim on their travel insurance  policy  hasnt been paid in full. 
Their insurer is Aviva Insurance  Limited  (Aviva)  and the insurance is part of their bank account. 
background
Mr and Mrs M went on a two month  holiday abroad  including multiple destinations. Before  
they went on their trip, they upgraded the travel insurance policy.  They  wanted  to be sure all 
eventualities were  covered.  
Whilst on their trip, one of their internal flights was cancelled due to a technical fault which  
meant they were delayed  for a night and missed their connections to a pre-booked  tour and 
missed a nights stay in a hotel at their next destination. Mr and Mrs M say their revised 
travel plans has cost them  over £500 which  included  the cost theyd paid for the missed tour, 
the night they missed  in the hotel  and taxi fares.
When Mr and Mrs M initially contacted Aviva to make their claim, they were told the costs  
would be covered. 
But when the claim was processed, after Mr and Mrs M provided  Aviva with all the relevant 
information, they were  offered £25 each  for the missed flight  which  Aviva  said was covered 
under the travel delays section of the policy. The term says:
If the scheduled departure of the ship, aircraft  or train on which  you are booked to travel  is 
delayed at the point of international departure, we will pay you £25 for every  full 12 hour 
period the ship,  aircraft  or train is delayed.
Aviva agreed that they had been given incorrect information when Mr and Mrs M had spoken 
to one of their advisors. It apologised for this and offered £50 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs M say they never  would  have bought this policy  if they had known that not 
everything was covered.  They  say being covered for accommodation and flights is an 
essential part of a travel  insurance policy and it should have been pointed out to them. 
They say the call handler  when they took out the policy - knew they were travelling to lots 
of different  places, so they should  have realised internal flights.  And the knock-on effect if 
one was missed or delayed - would have been important to them. If they had known this was 
the case they wouldnt have bought the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN74330832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons below. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration at not being covered for everything by their 
insurance. When one of their flights was cancelled, they had to re-arrange some of their 
plans - which I imagine would have been stressful - and they lost out not being able to go on 
their tour and missing a night in a hotel they had already paid for. I can appreciate their 
disappointment when they learned their losses werent covered by their insurance.
However, travel insurance policies  do not cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to 
decide what risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents  form part of the 
insurance contract and sets out what is and isnt covered.
Having looked  at the policy document Im satisfied that not all the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim were  covered by their policy. There is a section that deals  with travel delays, 
but the policy states its a fixed amount for every  12 hours a policy-holder  is delayed  at the 
point of international departure. Mr and Mrs M were delayed for just over 12 hours  but this 
wasnt an international departure. So on my reading the delay wasnt  covered under the 
policy but it seems that Aviva has decided to be practical with this and it has paid Mr and 
Mrs M the correct amount as if the delay was an international one. 
I think its important to note that unused travel, excursions  (up to £250 per person) and 
accommodation costs  are covered by the policy if a scheduled international departure  is 
delayed for more than 24 hours and the policy holders decided  to abandon their trip. But not 
everything is covered  in every circumstance. 
The seller  of the policy  in this case Mr and Mrs Ms bank - needed to give Mr and Mrs M 
clear, fair and non-misleading information  about the policy, so they could make an informed 
choice. But Im not looking at the sale of the policy   Im looking at whether Aviva was wrong  
to not pay out for the whole of the claim. 
I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms situation, but in summary I cant agree that they were  
treated unfairly  by Aviva.
Ive also thought about the level of compensation Aviva has offered Mr and Mrs M regarding  
the incorrect information they were  given about what they could claim for. I acknowledge 
why Mr M felt it was a waste of his time completing  the claim form and whilst this must have 
been frustrating,  I feel the amount Aviva has offered is a fair amount in recognition of that. I 
wouldnt ask Aviva to offer anything more than the £50 they already have. 
Ref: DRN74330833my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
If it hasnt  done  so already, Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs M £50 for the delayed  flights  and 
£50 for the inconvenience  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7433083