K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the level of service  she received from Barclays  Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) when her debit  card expired, and she couldnt access  her online banking.
background
Miss S relocated from the UK to France in 2015.  Her account with Barclays had an overdraft 
facility which  she used,  and she regularly made  payments  to this account through online 
banking. But in 2017 her debit card expired, and she found she couldnt  access online 
banking. She requested  a new card, and Barclays told her they would send her one. But 
they couldnt do this until theyd received authenticated identification. The process took 
longer than expected and Miss S wasnt sent her new card until June 2019.
Miss S has complained  about  the time it took for Barclays to issue  a replacement card and 
give her access  to online banking. Her account  had gone over the overdraft limit while  she 
couldnt access online banking, and shes also had charges added  to the account.
In March 2019 Barclays paid Miss S £170  to compensate her for the problems shed had in 
trying to get a new card and online banking access.  Theyve also offered an additional  £75, 
which Miss S rejected. But Barclays wouldnt agree  to refund any charges on the overdraft, 
as they thought theyd been correctly applied.
Our investigator found Barclays should  have provided Miss S with a replacement  card 
sooner, but he thought the £170 they paid Miss S was reasonable to compensate her for the 
frustration and inconvenience shed been  caused.  But he thought  that Miss S wouldve 
known about the overdraft  charges, and that she couldve made payments to her account  by 
other methods  telephone banking  or making  payments using her sort code and account 
number  she didnt  need access to Barclays online banking. So he didnt think  Barclays  
should refund any charges.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator. She feels that her efforts  to obtain a replacement  
card have been discarded,  and the £170  was for the phone calls she had to make  to try and 
get a replacement card  it wasnt for any charges shed incurred. Shes also said that, if the 
replacement cards Barclays  say they sent to her werent received, how can they be sure that 
she received the letters  about the overdraft charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that Miss S first asked Barclays for a replacement debit card in 2017, and 
she didnt receive  this until 2019.  Miss S had to ask Barclays for this on multiple occasions, 
and she called them about this more than once from France.  So I agree that Barclays 
couldve done better and Miss S was frustrated  and inconvenienced as a result. I also think  
the £170 Barclays have already paid is reasonable compensation  for this. 
But this compensation was only for the problems with the replacement card and access  to 
online banking  Ive not seen anything  to show that Barclays told Miss S it was also for any 
overdraft charges shed  incurred  while she was wasnt able to access her account.
Ref: DRN75498032Ive seen a copy  of a letter Barclays sent to Miss S in April 2014, explaining how their 
overdraft fees would be calculated. Ive also seen  Barclays tariff for personal customers  
leaflet dated July 2019, and this shows the overdraft  fees are calculated  the same  way as 
they were in April 2014. So Im happy  there was no change in how Miss Ss overdraft fees 
were calculated for the period of time she wasnt able to access  online banking.
Barclays say they wrote  to Miss S about  not being  able to pay regular transactions because 
shed exceeded  her overdraft limit, and that she was being charged  because of this. Miss S 
has said that Barclays cant be sure she received these letters, but she hasnt said that she 
didnt receive these letters.
But I dont think that letters  being  received or not are the crux of this matter   Miss S knew 
she was being  charged for her overdraft, and she wouldve been able to see these charges 
when she was able to access her online banking. So she wouldve been  reasonably  aware 
she was still being  charged for her overdraft when  she couldnt access  online banking.
Miss S has said she paid regular payments to her overdraft, and she couldnt  do this when  
she couldnt access online banking. But you dont  need to be able to access  the receiving 
account to make payments  Miss S had the sort code and account number for her Barclays  
account, so she couldve continued to make  payments to her overdraft. 
Because of this, I dont agree that Barclays should  refund any charges to Miss Ss overdraft 
 while  she may not have  known the exact  amount she was being charged every month, she 
wouldve known she was being charged  and couldve made payments to her account using 
her sort code and account number.
The offer of the additional £75 compensation still stands, and Miss S should let Barclays  
know if she wishes to accept this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about  Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7549803