K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr G says MBNA Limited mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think MBNA made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  
Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed  to follow  at the time 
and I can see that the representative was supposed  to only add the cover if they got the 
consumers agreement. And in asking for that agreement they were supposed to do so in 
a way that made it clear the cover was optional. I havent  seen  sufficient evidence  to find 
that this guidance was not followed in this case.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time it seems  he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And Ive 
considered that Mr G told us initially that he had no sick pay and no other means  to rely 
on in the event he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. Mr G latterly  told us he had 
good sick pay for three  months  and then it reduced significantly. However,  at the time of 
writing Mr G has not provided any evidence to support his latest testimony. So, Ive been 
unable to place  the weight  on it that he may have otherwise wished me to. This policy  
could have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event  Mr G lost his job or until he 
recovered or the balance was repaid in the event he was too ill to work. So I think the 
policy would have  been useful to him if something went wrong,  even at this low level of 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information about  the PPI and its cost would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against MBNA Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2018.
Ref: DRN75125072Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7512507