K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  confusing information she says she received  from Advanced  
Payment Solutions Limited (APS) regarding the charges that were due and payable  for her 
Cashplus account and the Credit Builder  facility.
Shes questioned whether shes been  overcharged  or mis-charged. 
background
Miss B opened a Cashplus account  with APS. She also successfully  applied  for a Credit  
Builder facility, which started a few weeks  later.  It appeared to her shed wrongly paid a charge 
for the Credit Builder  twice, as the first charge arose in the month before the facility started.
When she challenged APS about this, the company gave her what she thought was 
conflicting information. The company appeared to confirm Miss B shouldnt have been 
charged twice, yet it defended what had happened.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded the charge  in the month  before 
the Credit Builder started was for the Cashplus account. This was a monthly charge, but it 
stopped being charged when the account holders Credit Builder facility  started. After  that, 
there was a monthly charge,  for the same amount, for the Credit  Builder, the charge 
effectively being  a loan repayment.  
Basically the account holder, in this case Miss B, didnt pay a monthly charge for the 
Cashplus account all the while  she was paying a monthly charge for the Credit Builder. 
So APS hadnt  got things wrong.  There had validly been two charges: one for the Cashplus 
account and, afterwards, one for the Credit  Builder. 
Given his findings,  the investigator saw no reason to require APS to refund the charges 
when Miss B closed  her account  early.  He didnt think  APS had done anything  wrong.  
Miss B said she didnt agree with the investigators  interpretation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B but Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. 
I can think of little to add. Miss B had to pay a monthly charge for the Cashplus account, 
except when she was also paying  a monthly  charge for the Credit Builder. 
I agree  theres  no basis for refunding charges to Miss B when she closed the account early.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822782