K820x#14complaint
Mrs Js complaint is about the settlement  of a claim on her U K Insurance Limited motor 
insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mrs J says UKI didnt properly investigate the claim and shes  unhappy that despite 
initially saying it would  be settled  on 50/50  spilt liability  it eventually  accepted  what  
the third party  said and settled it against her as a fault claim.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether 
UKI has conducted a reasonable investigation  into a claim,  when making  its own 
decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy UKI is entitled  to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. 
It also doesnt need Mrs Js, or her named drivers,  approval  of any decision  to admit 
liability, settle a claim  or make  a payment to a third party.  
Overall I think  UKI has investigated  matters  reasonably. It considered the vehicles 
damage, and what all the parties  said. It also sought the opinion  of an independent  
engineer which it was entitled to rely on. But there werent  any independent  
witnesses or dash cam footage.  UKI concluded  the other  partys  door was probably 
open and it didnt think this could be successfully  or economically challenged if the 
case was taken  to court. So, it decided to accept liability and settle the third partys 
claim. 
Mrs J may disagree with UKIs interpretation  of the evidence  and decision to settle 
the claim on a fault basis but I dont think its failed to comply  with the policy  terms or 
exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the claim as 
its done. 
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise Mrs Js frustration, I think  UKI 
has acted fairly  and I dont think I can reasonably require it to do anything more  or 
differently.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Ref: DRN76384662Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7638466