K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont  refund a payment he made 
for a hotel booking. 
background
Mr T booked  a hotel room for around £290. He says the hotel  offered  a price match 
guarantee (with an additional 10% off) if he found the same room  for cheaper within  24 
hours of booking. Mr T says he found the room  cheaper elsewhere  and submitted  his claim 
for the price match. But he says the hotel was in breach of its own terms because it didnt 
respond to him within 48 hours  it only did so a few days  before his scheduled arrival at the 
hotel. He also wasnt happy that his price match claim  was turned down. 
Shortly after his stay at the hotel he asked  the hotel for a full refund. This is because he says 
the hotel and room wasnt as described and there were a number of facilities  and amenities 
missing, as well as poor dcor and general maintenance. Mr T says the hotel didnt respond 
to him. 
Mr T asked  RBS for a refund by initiating a chargeback  both for the price match and the 
poor quality  of the hotel stay. RBS said it wasnt able to help him because his claim related  
to the standard of services  received  and there  wasnt  an option to initiate  a chargeback  for 
this reason. RBS also said it couldnt help with the price match part of his claim. RBS did pay 
Mr T £20 compensation for the poor way it had communicated with him throughout the 
chargeback process.
I sent Mr T and RBS my provisional decision on 13 December 2018.  I explained  why I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Even if RBS had initiated a chargeback it wouldnt have guaranteed Mr T a refund. This is 
because the hotel would have been entitled  to defend any chargeback  claim.  If it did this, 
then it will usually mean the chargeback fails. This is because  the outcome of a chargeback 
isnt necessarily decided  by the merits of the dispute (whether Mr T is entitled  to a refund  or 
not). Instead the outcome is decided by the terms of the MasterCard rules.
The MasterCard rules say that the card issuer  (RBS) is only entitled to make  one 
chargeback claim per transaction under the same reason code.  Mr T had asked RBS to 
make two claims falling  under the same  MasterCard  reason  code  of goods and services not 
as described. One was for the price match and the other for the poor standard  of the 
accommodation. So RBS would never  have  been  able to initiate both claims anyway.  
The hotel has engaged with Mr Ts complaint over email (albeit  it appears  not as quickly  as 
Mr T would have liked), so I think its likely it would have also responded to any chargeback  
claim. Ive therefore gone onto consider what I think is most likely to have happened, had 
RBS initiated a chargeback for either of Mr Ts claims.  
price match
Had RBS attempted  the chargeback for just the price match guarantee, I think it would have 
likely failed. This is because Mr T didnt provide the terms and conditions of the guarantee to 
demonstrate that (i) the hotel had breached them; and (ii) he had complied  with them.  But 
Ref: DRN77336292even if he had supplied  the terms and conditions,  I dont  think  his claim would have 
succeeded. 
I say this because  Ive reviewed the relevant terms on the hotels website. One of the 
conditions was that a claim needed  to be submitted within 24 hours  of booking. Mr T hasnt  
been able to demonstrate  he did this. Hes provided a screen shot to show  he found a 
cheaper price on a different website, but not that he actually submitted his claim on time. Its 
clear from the hotels emails to Mr T that it believes a claim wasnt  submitted. For this reason 
I think it would have  defended the chargeback  on the same basis and his claim was 
therefore most likely  to fail.
Mr T also says the hotel was in breach  of their terms by not responding to his claim within 48 
hours. But the terms dont  say the hotel will reply within 48 hours, so its likely the hotel 
would have successfully  defended this too. 
quality of hotel
RBS response to Mr Ts complaint said that it couldnt initiate a chargeback when the 
dispute related  to the standard of service received. That isnt right.  RBS could  have initiated  
the chargeback  under  the reason  code Mr T suggested. Although RBS gave Mr T an 
incorrect explanation,  I dont think hes lost out because of it. This is because I think the 
chargeback would have likely failed anyway. 
RBS has subsequently said that it didnt  initiate the chargeback  because  Mr T had stayed at 
the hotel. It said as Mr T had asked  for a full refund for services hed received, it was unlikely  
to succeed. And I agree.  Even if the hotel  was to a poor standard, he still got some  benefit 
from staying there for three nights and its likely  the hotel would have defended the 
chargeback for a full refund for the same reasons. 
Further, the hotel  did eventually respond  directly  to Mr T about  his complaint and it offered 
him 50% off of his next stay. Its likely it would have done the same in response to any 
chargeback. Had it done  so, the chargeback would have likely failed as the merchant had 
agreed to resolve  the dispute  with a future discount. 
Lastly, RBS apologised and paid Mr T £20 compensation for the poor way it communicated  
with him whilst dealing  with his chargeback claims.  I think this was a fair offer in the 
circumstances and I dont  think it needs  to do anything more. 
RBS accepted my provisional decision but Mr T didnt. In summary he said:
He only made one request for a chargeback which was the breach of contract  on the 
price match  guarantee. He later said the standard of the stay was poor and could be 
considered a breach of contract too. He didnt care which one RBS initiated.
He felt as the deciding  ombudsman  I was under a duty to make a decision based  on 
the balance of probabilities. Hed provided screenshots  with a date stamp showing 
the cheaper alternative he found which showed it was more  likely  he did submit the 
price match  claim  in time. In response to the provisional decision Mr T also provided  
screenshots of messages he sent to the other  occupant of the hotel confirming  hed 
submitted a price  match  claim  on that day. 
If the hotel had responded within the agreed 48 hours timeframe  he could have 
cancelled his original  booking and opted for the cheaper one instead.  
RBS shouldnt have  taken the opportunity away from him of having a chargeback  
submitted as it isnt up to them  whether  it succeeds  or not. 
Ref: DRN77336293RBS has also refused to consider his claim under  S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (S75). 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill 
address the additional points Mr T has made and why these dont change  my conclusions.  
Whilst I realise Mr T did initially only raise one chargeback claim, he later asked  it to submit 
another claim for a different reason. My provisional decision explained why I didnt think 
either claim  would have been  successful in any event. 
Mr T is right that  amongst other things  my role is to decide  cases  on the balance  of 
probabilities (that is whats  most  likely to have happened). But I have no jurisdiction  to 
consider his complaint against the hotel company. This means  its not appropriate for me to 
decide in this particular case whether its more likely that he did submit the price match 
guarantee. Instead I need to consider whether its more likely  than not that his chargeback 
claim would have been successful if RBS had initiated it. 
Whilst Mr T has demonstrated  that he found a cheaper price online and discussed it with his 
friend, the issue for me to consider is whether the hotel is likely  to have defended the 
chargeback. As Mr T cant show he actually submitted the claim (and this is what the hotel 
has said to Mr T when  he complained directly  to them) I think  its more  likely than not the 
chargeback would have been  defended  on the same grounds. This means the chargeback 
have failed. 
Whilst I agree that RBS could have initiated a chargeback, it isnt a consumer right.  It is 
ultimately up to RBS if they want to do so. But I would consider it good practice to initiate 
one where there is reasonable  grounds  to do so. Whilst its disappointing RBS didnt do that 
here, I dont  think Mr T hasnt lost out because of it. This is because  I think  its more  likely 
the chargeback  would have failed anyway for the reasons Ive explained. I think  the £20 
compensation RBS has paid is a fair way to compensate him for the poor service  he 
received overall.  
Mr T says RBS hasnt considered his claim under S75. That claim doesnt  form part of this 
decision and hed need to raise that as a separate  complaint with RBS.  To be clear  to both 
parties, S75 claims  have  different considerations to a chargeback. Therefore the conclusions  
Ive reached on this case shouldnt have any direct  bearing on the outcome of RBS 
consideration of Mr Ts S75 claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7733629