K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance with 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
background 
Mr C switched his home  insurance policy to Lloyds in November 2013. It provided buildings 
and contents  insurance and initially cost £430.56 for the year.  
There was a claim for escape  of water in 2014 which impacted Mr Cs no claims discount.
For 2014/2015, the policy cost £580.33 for the year. The policys  cost then gradually 
increased over the years  and in 2018, Mr Cs renewal quote for the year was £874.22.  
Unhappy with the increase, Mr C contacted  Lloyds. Lloyds  offered a discount reducing  the 
cost to £751.74. 
Mr C remained  unhappy with the cost and switched  to another  product  which  was also 
underwritten by Lloyds.  Mr Cs new home insurance policy  cost £406.50  for the year.
Given the difference in price, Mr C says Lloyds increased his premiums over the years  
unfairly. 
So Mr C says he was charged  too much  and he should be reimbursed for the extra  he had 
paid over the years.
Lloyds reviewed Mr Cs concerns. It said that the premiums Mr C was charged over the 
years were  correct. It also explained  that part of the reason for the increase was in relation to 
the insurance premium  tax increases  that happened over the years.  
Lloyds in its response also explained to Mr C that it had sent renewal quotes each year 
which set out the cost.  And it was for Mr C to review and decide whether  he wanted to 
continue with the insurance.
It further explained that the alternative insurance  Mr C obtained was cheaper because  it 
included an introductory  discount. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr C referred  the complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, Lloyds offered  to refund some of the cost of the 
insurance. It offered  Mr C £99.23.  It also explained it would include additional compensation 
set at 8% simple interest  per year  to compensate Mr C for being out of pocket of that 
money. 
And finally, it also offered  an additional £100  as compensation  for the trouble Mr C had been 
caused.  
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
As Mr C disagreed, and as the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN76120632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mr C fairly  throughout the period  he held his 
insurance policy. 
If I find that Lloyds hasnt treated Mr C fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would  be 
fair and, in this case, whether I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
When Mr C switched his home insurance  to Lloyds in 2013, it cost £430.56  for the year. I 
understand there was an introductory discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well 
initially be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer  to seek 
to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years.
The following  year there was claim under the policy which impacted Mr Cs no claim discount 
with Lloyds and in 2014 Mr Cs policy cost £580.33 for the year.
But I can see while Mr C was aware that he could switch, as he had switched to Lloyds in 
2013 because  it was a cheaper  policy, Mr C didnt  further engage with Lloyds  about  the 
renewal quotes  he was given and his premium continued to increase each year.  
If Lloyds should  have realised Mr C wasnt the type of person who shopped around for 
cheaper insurance regularly, and it increased  the price  just because Mr C didnt engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
But Lloyds has now offered to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums Mr C 
paid  its offered  £99.23. It has also offered Mr C additional compensation for him being out 
of pocket (which will be set at 8% simple interest per year)  and £100 for the trouble caused. 
So Ive looked  to see whether I think what it has offered is fair.
Mr C thinks that his compensation should  be a lot higher. And thats  because  of the cheaper 
alternative policy he obtained in 2018.  Mr C wants Lloyds to pay him the difference between 
the two policies going back to the second year he had the policy,  so 2014. 
But the new home insurance  policy  Mr C obtained  included a new customer introductory  
discount. As I have  explained above,  this is common  practice and I think  its fair that an 
insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent  years.  I dont think its fair to expect an 
insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. 
So it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to use what  Mr Cs new policy  cost (which had a discount) 
when working out its offer.  
And Mr C, in working out what  he thinks his compensation should be, has also taken into 
account nearly all of the policys duration.  I dont think  thats  quite right, Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN76120633In the earlier  years of the policy, Lloyds was recouping  the initial discount applied to the 
policy. Also,  Lloyds wouldnt have known in the early years  Mr C held his policy that he 
wasnt the type of person to shop  around for cheaper insurance  regularly.  That wouldnt 
have become apparent for some years. 
So I wouldnt  expect Lloyds to be paying  back some of the cost of the insurance from the 
start of the policy or from 2014, as Mr C thinks should happen. Im also mindful that Mr C 
agreed to the insurance cost when he took out the policy in 2013.  And I note that Mr C did 
switch to Lloyds  in 2013 as it was cheaper. So Mr C was aware that he could switch 
insurance and switching could save money. 
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered Lloyds offer,  I think  its fair. It makes 
sure Mr C hasnt  lost out if Lloyds did increase the price  just because Mr C didnt shop 
around regularly  or didnt  engage at each renewal.
I also think Lloyds additional  compensation offer of £100, for the trouble caused to Mr C, 
throughout his complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer to refund some 
of the costs of Mr Cs policy is fair.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited should also calculate the additional  compensation 
(set at 8% simple interest per year) owed to Mr C for being out of pocket of that money.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation  offer of £100 for the 
trouble caused  to Mr C is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7612063