K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans, ranging from £60 to £220,  Lending  Stream  
provided to Miss J between August 2014 and August 2015. Using the information Lending 
Stream has provided  I have created a table giving brief details and I have referred to the 
loans by the numbers in the table.
Loan ApprovedPrincipal 
amount Original 
termInstalment 
repayment 
(rounded)Repaid/closure
114 August 
2014£220 168 days#Highest one 
was £7523 August  2014
gap
210 February  
2015£150 194 daysHighest one 
was £67 27 Nov 2015*
3 29 July 2015 £100 183 daysHighest one 
was £24-
47 August  
2015£60 174 daysHighest one 
was £14-
517 August 
2015£60 179 daysHighest one 
was £13-
# = repaid early enough and treated as withdrawn
*repaid late
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lending  Stream  needed to put things right for Miss J in 
relation to any of the loans. Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. The complaint  remained unresolved and so was passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks  to understand 
whether Miss J could  repay her loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this stage  was 
Ref: DRN79856062reached with Miss Js circumstances and so I have thought about this element but I do not 
think its applicable  here. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Miss J could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because sustainable was defined as being without undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Loan 1 was taken for a term of 168 days and repaid within 9 days  and I have seen one 
record where the loan was treated  as withdrawn.  There  was a provision within  the 
agreement for withdrawal within 14 days and that seems to be the basis  of the interest 
calculation Miss J was charged for the short  period. 
In relation to the approval decision for Loan  1, as it was Miss Js first loan with Lending 
Stream then I think that the checks it carried out were  proportionate  and so I do not uphold  
Miss Js complaint for this loan.
After Loan 1 there was a gap of almost six months  before Miss J applied for Loan 2 in 
February 2015. After  a very short lending relationship  the previous year then I think  that this 
gap is significant  enough for Loan  2 to be the start of a new loan chain and as such  I took 
this into account  when making my decision about it. In the circumstances, this was a loan of 
£150 for a term of 194 days and the highest  scheduled repayment  was agreed to be about 
£67 in the second month of the agreement. Other instalments were  less than that and as the 
months went by the repayments were scheduled  to reduce  the lowest being agreed to be 
£30 on 21 August 2015. According to the records I have been given it seems that Miss J did 
not repay that last instalment of £30 until November 2015. 
In view of the information  Lending  Stream had about  Miss J then I consider that the checks 
were proportionate for this loan and I do not uphold Miss Js complaint for Loan 2.
Loans 3, 4 and 5 were applied for in quick succession in late July and August 2015. At the 
time she applied  for these, Loan  2 was outstanding.  Miss Js last instalment for Loan 2 was 
due on 21 August 2015. From the Statement of Account  I have for Loan  2 it seems that 
Miss J did repay the last instalment  for Loan  2 late but when she was applying for Loans 3, 4 
and 5 it would not have  registered with Lending Stream that there was a problem. I say this 
because up to then Miss J had repaid her instalments  for Loan 2 satisfactorily. 
The repayments for each of Loans  3, 4 and 5 were relatively low and the combined  
repayment figure for each of those loans  added up to be relatively low. With the information 
Ref: DRN79856063Lending Stream had about Miss Js income and expenditure then I do not think  that it would 
have been alerted to any issues. 
I know that Miss J has sent to us some information  about ill health and rental arrears but 
these were at different  times to the applications  for these loans with Lending Stream.  So 
I have looked  at those documents, and I was sorry to read about these troubles, but they are 
not within the time frames for these loans. 
Even if I were to consider that Lending Stream ought to have carried out further checks such 
as checking Miss Js records for other  short term loan (STL) commitments when she was 
applying for Loans  3, 4 and 5, then I do not think it would have made a difference.  Ill explain 
here.
I know from records and information Miss J has provided to us that she took other STL with 
other lenders but when I look at the detail for those the other  STL either  they pre-date or 
post-date the ones taken with Lending Stream. And so its not likely  Lending  Stream would 
have known about these other STL commitments. And if it did know it would have 
recognised that they were not outstanding  in late July and August  2015 and so not likely to 
impact on its lending  decisions. 
So overall I think that the checks carried  out were proportionate and I do not uphold Miss Js 
complaint for these  loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985606