K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) provided poor customer service  and 
failed to answer his questions  about the redemption of his mortgage.
background
In late 2017 Mr W transferred his mortgage from HSBC to a new provider. When  his 
mortgage was redeemed with HSBC, he had a number of questions about the redemption  
figures, which he didnt  think were right. He sent a number of emails to HSBC  asking 
questions about  these figures  and didnt receive a reply, so he made a complaint. 
Mr W said HSBC  made  numerous mistakes when handling his complaint, including getting 
his name  wrong,  sending  him a blank  attachment by email,  and sending a letter to the wrong 
address (although he said luckily  the recipient didnt open it). He said HSBC paid him 
compensation for these mistakes, but they still didnt answer his questions about  the 
mortgage figures clearly,  and it took nearly  five months to get any answer at all. Mr W said 
he then asked HSBC  to clarify five final points to confirm hed understood everything 
correctly  but HSBC  refused. He said he still didnt  have the answers he needed, so he 
referred his complaint to our service.  
HSBC said the calculation of the redemption of Mr Ws mortgage was correct, but they 
acknowledged there had been a number of errors and delays on their part when handling 
this matter. They paid Mr W a total of £450 compensation, which they believed  was fair. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ws complaint and provided answers  to Mr Ws outstanding 
questions. The investigator acknowledged  HSBC could have answered Mr Ws queries 
sooner, but he felt HSBC had already fairly compensated Mr W for the level of service  he 
received and the impact of their mistakes by paying  him a total of £450.  So he didnt think  
HSBC needed  to do anything further.
In response, Mr W said he didnt disagree with our investigators view but he said it is a 
matter of principle. He said if it wasnt for the answers and explanation  given to him by the 
investigator (which he said took about  five minutes  over the phone),  he would still be waiting 
for HSBCs  reply, and worrying that the redemption of his mortgage was incorrect. Mr W said 
he asked HSBC many times  to confirm certain  information. He felt fobbed off by their final 
letter, and he wanted HSBC to explain why it refused  to answer him. Overall, Mr W felt 
HSBC should  be held accountable for never answering his questions and for their rude final 
letter. The case was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws frustration with this whole matter. There  have been a number of errors 
and delays on the part of HSBC and, ultimately, he just wanted to understand the 
redemption of his mortgage to make  sure he hadnt overpaid or lost money. He wrote to 
HSBC a number  of times in early November 2017 explaining his concerns  and HSBC 
didnt reply. He chased this again  in late November when his solicitor informed him that 
HSBC didnt release  the charge on his property on time, and again received no response   
Ref: DRN72214582which then led him to complain. HSBC acted unreasonably by not responding to his emails 
back in November. 
According to our rules  as set by the regulator  (the Financial Conduct Authority), HSBC had 
eight weeks to respond to Mr Ws complaint, and HSBC said they replied to him within  this 
time. However, in my view, HSBC still could  have answered his questions  in the meantime, 
so this doesnt change the delays on HSBCs part.  
I can see HSBC attempted to give Mr W the information he needed in their letters dated  8 
and 26 February 2018, but Mr W still didnt  feel these letters  answered his queries  and one 
letter was also sent to the wrong address, which clearly exacerbated the issues. HSBC  
made one final attempt to answer his questions on 21 March 2018,  and when Mr W came 
back with five more  questions to clarify his understanding, they refused to engage  with his 
queries further,  saying  theyd already responded. 
While the information  in these letters could have perhaps been clearer for Mr W; on balance, 
it seems to me that HSBC made reasonable attempts  to give him the information  he needed 
in response to his complaint, and invited  Mr W to call them to discuss  the details further. It is 
unfortunate that Mr W wasnt able to speak to HSBC over the telephone  due to his work 
commitments, which may have helped to clarify his understanding. However, the level of 
customer service  HSBC  provided Mr W clearly fell below the standard  Id expect in this case 
regardless. It is also disappointing HSBC refused to clarify Mr Ws final five outstanding 
points in his email at the end of March,  which may have resolved this matter a lot sooner. Im 
pleased our investigator was able to do this for him and that Mr W is now satisfied that the 
redemption of his mortgage was correct.  
Overall, the failings on the part of HSBC Ive identified above  clearly caused Mr W stress  
and inconvenience   but HSBC has acknowledged  this. They  paid Mr W £250 for the 
incorrectly addressed  letter,  and £200 for the inconvenience caused to him by the delays in 
providing this information  and in releasing  the charge on his property. Taking everything into 
account, and having regard to the general  level of awards we make,  Im satisfied the amount 
of compensation  HSBC  has already  paid Mr W is reasonable  to recognise their errors  in the 
circumstances. This means Im not asking  HSBC to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7221458