K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that esure Insurance Limited refused to pay a claim and then cancelled his 
comprehensive car insurance policy  after an accident. 
 
background
Mr F says he was leaving a retail park after shopping, when he accidentally  reversed into a 
lamppost, damaging his car. 
esure referred his claim to its fraud  department, and declined to pay it, because it didnt 
believe the accident had happened as Mr F had reported. Mr Fs policy  was also cancelled.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He wasnt satisfied esure had done enough to show, 
on balance, that the claim  was fraudulent.  So he said esure should pay the claim for damage 
to the car, remove the reference to the fraud cancellation from Mr Fs record,  and pay him 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
esure didnt  agree and so the matter has come to me to decide. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  I believe this claim should be upheld,  and Ill explain why. 
esure says that after interviewing Mr F and conducting investigations  at the site, its specialist 
investigators didnt  believe Mr Fs account of the accident was plausible. esure also noted  
that once Mr F became  aware it was investigating the matter, he didnt  proceed  with 
personal injury claims hed previously indicated  his passengers would be making.  
Mr F is reported  as telling esures  investigator that he was reversing  out of a parking space 
at a shopping centre, when his foot slipped  off the brake and onto the accelerator. He then  
backed into a lamppost,  damaging the rear of the car. 
I have considered the photos of the site, and the investigators report, along with Mr Fs 
statement. I can appreciate that there is some distance between  the parking space and the 
lamppost, and that it would have taken some  speed and delayed reaction by Mr F for the 
impact to have occurred. However, that doesnt make  it impossible. 
There is no dispute the car was damaged on the rear passenger  side,  and the evidence 
shows some  paint  transfer on the lamppost.  So, I am satisfied  the car has suffered damage.  
There is no police report of the incident, no CCTV footage and no independent witnesses. 
However, Mr F has provided a letter  from the garage which  collected  the car from the site 
after the incident (and that letter confirmed that it was considered  undriveable because  of the 
nature and location of the damage). 
The policy provides comprehensive cover, including for accidental  damage. That means  that 
unless some exclusion applies, or esure  shows it is otherwise entitled to decline the claim,  
then the claim for damage to the vehicle should  be paid. 
Ref: DRN76294522I have listened  to two calls Mr F made to esure regarding  his claim. In one, he does ask 
briefly how to claim for injuries, but makes  no further comment  in the call about that. In his 
statement, Mr F is reported  as saying that later on the day of the accident his wife and 
daughter stated theyd  developed pains in the neck and back. The statement goes on to say 
they went to their GP and were advised  painkillers, but had no further  treatment. 
However, no actual claim for personal  injuries was lodged. The investigator formed the 
opinion that Mr F had changed  his mind about pursuing that because  of the investigation.  
But I am not persuaded that would be the only reason that no personal injuries claims were 
made. I consider it reasonable to allow for the possibility that any twinges or concerns Mr Fs 
wife and daughter  may have experienced in the initial aftermath  of the incident did dissipate,  
which is what Mr F said in his witness  statement; meaning there  was nothing to pursue. 
So there is no question  of Mr F or his passengers having made fraudulent personal injuries 
claims. Nor have I seen  any compelling evidence to establish an intention  to do so.  
I acknowledge esures concerns  about the way the accident happened,  however, the burden  
of establishing  fraud  is on esure, and because of the seriousness  of the allegation, the 
threshold is high. I am not satisfied on the available evidence that esure  has established 
fraud, although I appreciate its suspicions of fraud remain. The position  esure  relies  on is 
basically that Mr F seemed to indicate there might be personal  injuries  claims, but they then 
did not eventuate; and that the manoeuvre he said he made  in the carpark was a clumsy one 
if it wasnt staged. 
But Mr F has been consistent in his account, and he provided  a signed statement containing 
a statement  of truth. My understanding  is that a person could be subject to contempt  of court  
proceedings if they knowingly make  a false statement in a document  verified by a statement 
of truth.  I also think it is less likely that he would put his family in danger by taking a 
deliberate risk in the vehicle. As I note above,  the lamp post has traces of paint on it, and the 
car was damaged.  I think the damage  was from colliding with the lamp post.  
That means I am satisfied  the claim should  be paid.  As well, Mr F has had the 
embarrassment, upset  and inconvenience  of having been accused  of fraud. It is fair that he 
be compensated for that.    
Ref: DRN76294523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. 
esure Insurance Limited  is required to settle the claim  by paying the quote previously 
obtained from Mr Fs garage for repairs to his vehicle, remove  any reference to the fraud 
cancellation from Mr Fs record,  and pay Mr F £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of being told hed acted  fraudulently.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr F accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, calculated at 8% a 
year simple.  
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.      
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7629452