K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC dealt with his transfer. Further,  he is 
also unhappy with the level of assistance  it provided after that transfer failed.
background
Mr S wanted  to transfer some money from his Barclays account. He thought  it likely this 
might trigger  some  of Barclays security procedures. On this basis  he let it know a week in 
advance about  what he planned to do. But this was to no avail.  He tried to transfer the 
money this failed. He then was not able to answer  the security questions  Barclays  asked 
him, so he wasnt able to continue  to use his digital banking facilities.
Mr S spoke to his local branch, which really wasnt all that local at all (his local branch had 
been closed). It told him what he needed  to do to get his digital banking restored. He did as it 
asked (send  it a document to prove his identity)  but this didnt work. Rather  he heard nothing 
from it in response.  
Mr S finally managed to get his digital banking  reinstated but only after he went all around 
the houses, including having  to talk to a call centre which seemed to be based  overseas. He 
was also asked a lot of questions. Mr S was displeased with this entire experience.
He made  an observation about the lack of a local branch. He suggested this meant that 
Barclays business model was flawed. On the one hand, it insisted customers  had to do 
some things face to face. On the other,  it made it difficult for the customer  to do this. Plus he 
suggested even  if he could have visited the nearest  branch  (which  he couldnt) he would 
have run up costs. He also wanted to know why hed not received a response about his 
letter containing a copy of his identity document and a second letter  he sent.
Barclays said the transfer had been  picked up by its fraud detection system. It explained that 
what it had done  was to protect Mr S and itself.  It also said it was entitled to act as it did 
under the relevant terms and conditions  of the account. It said it couldnt be held responsible  
for any costs  a customer might run up in these circumstances.
Barclays suggested it had done  nothing wrong  in asking him to pass its security procedures  
before it would unblock his account. It was his choice to send it the identity document.  He 
had been offered a home visit but he declined. In any event it had no record  of ever 
receiving the identity document. 
It thanked Mr S for his feedback about closing his closest branch.
Dissatisfied, Mr S came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short  he 
thought Barclays  had dealt fairly with Mr S. He took on board that Mr S had tried to do what  
he could to make sure the payment went  through. He had chatted  to Barclays before making  
the transfer to give it advance  warning. However,  these security  procedures are in place to 
protect customers and the bank.  It gets to decide if it blocks  a transfer for security reasons 
even if it has had advance  warning.
Our investigator took on board  that Mr S was displeased with the procedures he had to go 
through to get his online banking working again.  But our investigator was satisfied again that 
Ref: DRN79186102these procedures are there  for the mutual protection of the customer and the bank. He was 
also satisfied that the procedures  had been  applied in the way that they should have been. 
He thought it was up to Barclays where  it decided to locate its branches and how it decides 
to design its operating model and we couldnt  tell it to act otherwise.
In all of the circumstances, for all these  reasons,  he didnt agree he had any proper basis to 
ask Barclays to take any further action.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  recommendation, Mr S did not. In summary, he 
responded to say Barclays had not given customers  accurate  information  in suggesting they 
could do their banking  using entirely digital  means.  He thought  it wasnt  correct that we 
accepted Barclays  could make commercial  decisions  about how it operates,  in these 
circumstances. He suggested Barclays had not given accurate information to us about 
receiving correspondence  from him. He repeated  he had given Barclays notice of his 
intentions before he transferred the money.
We could go no further with Mr Ss complaint at this stage  in our process. Therefore I was 
asked to take a completely fresh look at his complaint and reach a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
First, Im very conscious  that Ive summarised  this complaint in far less detail than the parties  
and in my own words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point made by all the parties  
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ss frustration  that having  warned  Barclayss about the transfer it still stopped it jumps off 
the page. It seems  he thinks  that his warning should  have  been  enough to allay any fears  
Barclays might have  had about the legitimacy  of the transaction. 
However, its just not as simple as that. Customers are defrauded even when they tell their 
banks in advance  about transfers.  
Barclays is obliged to have procedures in place to deal with fraud  and that does mean  that 
sometimes they also stop transfers  that their customers want to make,  like here. Barclays 
clearly had such measures in place, arranged to take account  of what it knows about actual 
and potential risks. 
Ref: DRN79186103The manner in which those security arrangements are established is a matter for the 
organisations and their regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me or indeed  Mr S to know the extent to which fraud detection  systems and 
procedures operate.  In all these  circumstances, I cant  fairly agree that Mr Ss pre-warning  
should have been enough to allow the transfer  through.
Further Barclays applied its security arrangements and removed them once it was able to 
establish that Mr S was who he said he was and that he genuinely wanted to do the transfer. 
I appreciate Mr S was unhappy about all of this. But I dont agree Mr S was treated unfairly 
by being asked to comply  with these procedures.
I can well understand  that Mr S would have found it more  convenient  to go to a branch if he 
had one locally. But Barclays  has chosen to close his local branch and that is its choice to 
make. 
I dont doubt that Mr S sent the letters he tells us about. It was not ideal that Barclays didnt 
respond. I accept though that it didnt register receiving the letters.  It seems  likely it must 
have lost them. I find this explanation much  more likely than that it received them but did 
nothing. It had nothing to gain by taking this approach.  Mr S clearly  wasnt going to let the 
matter rest so brushing the issue under the carpet  would have got it nowhere.
Ultimately though Mr S did get his online banking reinstated  which is what he wanted. And 
as I have already  said, I dont hold Barclays responsible for him losing this access in the first 
place. 
I realise Mr S suggests that the reality is that Barclays does not allow its customers to do all 
their banking via digital means.  Im not the regulator  for Barclays  so I cant look at whether 
its advertising is misleading to customers and ask it to make changes. But what  I can look at 
is the individual impact on Mr S of Barclays behaviour. For all the reasons I have gone 
through I dont agree  he has been  treated  unfairly  by Barclays. It follows I have no proper 
basis to ask it to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7918610