K821x#15Complaint
Mr P has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
complete enough  affordability checks before approving his Safety Net facility. Mr P says he 
had to borrow his full credit limit on a weekly basis, and it was irresponsible for SNC  to keep 
increasing his credit  limit as he was clearly dependant on the facility.  
Background
Mr P approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in March 2016. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
Mr P was initially  given a facility with a £200  credit  limit in March 2016.  His limit was 
increased on a further nine occasions with his final increase   taking his credit limit to £800 
in July 2018. The most recent correspondence from SNC shows  there is an outstanding 
balance of around £600 as of February  2019.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ps complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  And that the information SNC gathered about 
Mr Ps circumstances suggested he would be able to afford  the repayments he was 
committed to making. 
But due to the way Mr P used the facility  our adjudicator thought SNC should have stopped 
allowing him to continue using it from 9 July 2016.
Mr P agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided  the following 
points:
SNC thinks the product was eminently affordable throughout the duration based  on 
Mr Ps disposable income and the increases were  well within  his affordability  profile.  
The increases  to Mr Ps credit  limit were not as a result of changes  in his 
circumstances, but as a result of SNCs increasing  confidence in the management of 
his account.
Over  the life of the account  (around 30 months), Mr P paid much more  in principal 
than in interest (over  8 times more) and never paid any other fees and charges.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the facility  was provided. 
To begin with, Mr P seems to accept  our adjudicators opinion,  that SNC wasnt  wrong to 
approve his running  credit  facility. For the avoidance of doubt,  I also dont think SNC was 
wrong to have initially granted the facility. So this decision will focus on whether SNC did 
enough to monitor  Mr Ps facility whilst he held it and whether there was a point which  SNC 
should have halted any further  borrowing on it.
Ref: DRN75511212Although I dont think SNC was wrong  to have initially granted the facility,  I do think it was 
unfair for it to have  allowed Mr P to continue to drawing down on the account from 
9 July 2016.  This is because I think the way he was using the account indicated he wasnt  
using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think  this is the case.  
Firstly, under the provisions outlined  in CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action where 
there are signs of actual  or possible repayment  difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically  linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like;
The following matters,  among others,  of which a firm is aware or ought  reasonably  to be 
aware, may indicate  that a customer is in financial difficulties;
(1)consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment  of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow  further to repay existing debts,  or the customer  only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets  or security;
(5) consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other  debt solution or to seeking 
debt counselling.
So CONC  sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Ps use of the facility  and then 
CONC 1.3 provides  indications  which could  suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty. In addition to this, SNC  has a fairly good indication of Mr Ps financial position,  
because throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access  to his bank 
account. 
In its recent correspondence,  SNC has made  reference to (CONC) 5.2A.28 which states: 
 a firm should consider  the customer's  ability to repay the maximum amount of credit  
available (equivalent to the credit limit) under the agreement within a reasonable period; and 
may, in considering  what is a reasonable period, have regard to the typical  time required for 
repayment that would apply to a fixed-sum unsecured personal loan for an amount  equal to 
the credit  limit. 
However, the above regulation came  into effect from November 2018, which is after the 
period Im considering here. And as SNC hasnt provided any context regarding its referral  to 
this rule I fail to see the relevance of it in this case.   
In any event I dont  think  it was unreasonable of SNC to have believed that Mr P would 
repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time when the facility was first 
granted. And I think  that this would have resulted in monthly repayments of around  £20  
Ref: DRN75511213given a credit limit of £200. After all, this is what was expected, and the way this facility was 
designed. But if Mr P wasnt using the facility  as intended, this could indicate to SNC that he 
was having wider financial problems.
What I would point  out here, is that even  though  it wasnt unreasonable for SNC to have  
assessed Mr Ps ability to repay on the payments required to clear  the balance  over a 
reasonable period of time,  at the outset, Im mindful that the following provision  is contained 
with the credit agreement  for the facility;
We will only ever take a repayment when your Bank Balance is higher than your 
SafetyNet Level.
We will never take a repayment which reduces your balance to the SafetyNet Level 
and therefore  triggers a Credit Instalment. To make sure this is the case  whenever 
we take a repayment we will always leave you a balance  which  is at least  £20 above 
your SafetyNet Level.
Subject to the above, the repayment  amount will be the full amount you owe us in 
outstanding capital and interest  whilst  leaving you a Bank  Balance  which  is at least  
£20 above your SafetyNet Level or such lesser amount as will leave you a Bank 
Balance at least £20 above  your SafetyNet Level.
The final bullet point  is clear here  that SNC will collect the full amount owed should 
sufficient funds be present in the borrowers account. So this is why, I think,  in this case, 
when SNC  was monitoring the account,  it needed  to be mindful of Mr Ps repayment record. 
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair to allow  Mr P to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr P returned  for further borrowing. After all, if Mr P was 
drawing down similar sums within  days of SNC  taking a payment from his account this ought 
to have indicated  that SNC taking the full payment from Mr Ps account  was causing him to 
once again borrow  the funds that SNC had just taken. 
Looking at Mr Ps circumstances in the month  prior to July 2016, SNC  would have  seen that 
Mr P was continuing to take out large  amount in cash withdrawals  totalling £1,400 in June 
2016. From  the start of the borrowing relationship, SNC could see from Mr Ps statements 
that he was regularly drawing out large amounts of cash. And in the four months he held his 
account, he had drawn  out around  £1,700 in March,  £1,180 in April and £1,540  in May 2016. 
These cash withdrawals were equal  to the majority of Mr Ps wages. This suggests that Mr P 
had other  expenses elsewhere which  couldnt be seen on his statements. In any event  the 
amount of cash being withdrawn couldnt  go unexplained and I think  this is something which 
SNC should have  enquired about in further  detail.  Mr P has told us he had a relationship 
breakdown in 2016 and he was technically homeless. Hes told us he was drawing out large  
amounts of cash to pay for places to stay, eating out a lot and was repaying money he owed 
to friends. I think the information Mr P told us about  his circumstances at the time was 
reflected on his bank  statements. So, I dont think what  Mr P told us was unreasonable at the 
time.
In addition to this, Mr Ps statements show a number of returned direct debits and standing 
orders which had been a regular occurrence on his statements.  This was likely due to Mr P 
being paid weekly  and not having  enough  funds in his account to pay a bill which  was 
coming out monthly. I can also see Mr P had an outstanding payment to another  payday 
lender when he borrowed £445. The repayment  for this loan was due in July 2016 and it took 
Ref: DRN75511214up the majority of his wages which was likely to cause a knock-on effect with his other 
normal living  costs.
In my view, Mr Ps account activity shouldve been  enough for SNC to have proactively 
contacted him to arrange smaller payments as permitted by the agreement and in line with 
what it would  take for the facility to be cleared within a reasonable period, rather than 
continue taking the full account  balance on a regular basis. After  all, I dont consider it fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to on the one hand argue that the facility  was affordable 
because it could be repaid within a reasonable period of time when it never collected 
payments on this basis. And the credit  agreement actually  suggests to me that there was 
never any intention  to collect payments on this basis either.
When considering  all of the information  SNC  had available to it about Mr Ps circumstances  
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think  by 9 July 2016,  it was clear 
that the facility  had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing  Mr P to once again borrow  the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to his financial situation. But instead  of doing this 
SNC increased his credit  limit. This meant  that it would default  to taking even larger  
payments from Mr Ps account thus leaving a greater hole in his finances.
I think this is further demonstrated  by the way he continued to use the facility for a further  
two and a half years in the same manner. I think that if SNC had proactively contacted Mr P 
and arranged to collect smaller payments, which were more  in step with what  he was able to 
pay; Mr P wouldnt have needed  to keep borrowing as the hole left by SNCs collection of 
payments wouldnt  have kept getting larger.
Ive taken on board what SNC says about the cost of facility to Mr P. It has said that 
Mr P received over £37,000 in funds and only repaid  just over £41,000. 
SNC says that this means  the facility was cheap for Mr P. But Im not persuaded by SNCs  
argument or its analysis  of the costs. The first reason I believe this is because the interest  
rate for this product is set at 0.8% per day. This is the same as the maximum daily interest 
rate high-cost short-term credit providers  are permitted to charge. I think its important to 
note that high-cost short-term credit providers are only entitled to charge these amounts for 
short-term periods rather than a reasonable period  of time. I accept that SNCs terms and 
conditions meant that it could only charge  this rate for a maximum period of 40 days.  But I 
dont think that this helped Mr P because of the way that SNC  was collecting payments from 
him.
This brings  me onto me next concern with SNCs analysis. I think  its somewhat misleading 
to use a figure of £37,000 in any interest  comparison  as Mr P never had access  to £37,000 
from SNC.  He only ever had access to a maximum of £800 and, in reality,  most of the 
£37,000 SNC has referred to went back and forth between Mr Ps account and SNC.  In 
these circumstances,  I dont think its fair, reasonable or accurate  to highlight the amount of 
interest Mr P paid in comparison to the total funds advanced as Mr P wasnt  provided with a 
loan of £37,000 with payments amortised to clear the balance within a reasonable period of 
time. 
The more  accurate way of assessing the cost of Mr Ps facility  is the amount of interest he 
paid relative to the funds he was in possession of at any one time.  As Ive explained the 
highest credit limit Mr P was provided with was £800. And while  Mr P had this facility  he had 
Ref: DRN75511215an average balance  of just under £600. He paid a total of £41,380.55 to SNC (as of February  
2019) which was £3,883.44 more than the £37,497.11 SNC says he was advanced. 
Even then its my understanding that there  was an outstanding balance  of around £675  on 
Mr Ps account with SNC in February  2019. So for the roughly  three  year period Im looking 
at Mr P had an average balance of around £600 with SNC  and the highest  amount of credit 
he could ever have  at one time was £800.  Yet he made £3,883.44  more in payments than 
total funds received and he still owed SNC £675.  
So its clear that SNC collecting Mr Ps payments in the way that it did meant that Mr P paid 
a high amount  of interest for access to a relatively  small amount  of funds. And the fact that 
Mr P still has an outstanding balance similar  to his average over the period Ive looked at 
means that he didnt  make any real headway into what he owed. And in reality the amount of 
interest paid in proportion to the funds Mr P had available  is very similar  to interest payable 
on a high-cost short-term  credit product. The only difference  here of course is that the effect 
of SNC collecting payments and then providing  drawdowns in this way is that it managed  to 
keep this arrangement  going for three years, which is something that a high-cost short-term  
provider wouldnt be able to do on a single agreement. Taking  all of this into account I simply 
dont agree that this was a cheap product, or that SNCs argument means that it treated 
Mr P fairly and reasonably in this instance.  
Overall and having thought about  everything  I think that SNC shouldve proactively  
intervened and contacted Mr P to arrange  for him to repay what he owed within  a reasonable 
period of time. Had it done this, I dont think that Mr P would have  accepted the credit limit 
increase in July 2016 or continued using it in the same way from this date.  As Mr P went on 
to pay extra  interest  and charges because SNC didnt  intervene as I think that it ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  done, I think Mr P has lost out as a result of SNCs actions.
What SNC  should  do to put things right
If the debt has been  sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes,  buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress  below. If it isnt able to, or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve  the same  results.
Remove all unpaid  interest, fees and charges from the outstanding  balance that were 
applied from 9 July 2016,
SNC should rework the account  from 9 July 2016 so Mr P only has to repay the 
principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mr P to SNC (and the 
third party  if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr P had repaid enough  to repay  the principal, then any overpayment  
should be refunded to Mr P. To this overpayment  8% simple a year interest should 
be added  from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above,  an outstanding principal balance remains,  SNC
should make  an arrangement with Mr P to repay  the balance. But Id remind  the 
lender of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 9 July 2016  until the facility  is closed,
Ref: DRN75511216*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7551121