K820x#14complaint
H, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account and would 
not follow its instructions  about dealing with the closing balance.
background
H says it had been through a business  review with HSBC in 2018. And had provided all the 
information required. When it received a further email  request for information it sent an email  
back referring the author to the person who carried  out the previous review. And H says it 
then found out on 31 October  2018 that its account had been closed and the only way to 
receive the substantial  account balance was by cheque. H did not have another bank 
account. It agreed with HSBC to use part of the funds  to repay a loan. But it still has not 
been able to access the remaining balance.  H thinks  that HSBC  did not act reasonably by 
closing the account as H says it had met all the requirements.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC could 
have responded  to H when it sent an email  about the information request. But it wasnt 
required to do so and it could close the account  with two months notice. HSBC had shown it 
had written to H stating that the account would be closed on 24 October  2018. It had also 
fulfilled its responsibility  by sending H a cheque  for the balance of the account. HSBC  did not 
have a record of the calls which H said it made  to members of staff after the account  had 
been closed. The director said he spent  time on the calls and was not receiving help.  The 
investigator said that based  on what  had been said the service  could  have been  better.  But 
that HSBC had not made a mistake  in closing the account in the first place.
H did not agree. It said that it had had a long relationship with HSBC and had always  
complied with what had been asked of it. It was not reasonable to close the account whether 
notice had been given or not. And it had only been allowed five days  to provide the 
information. The different parts of HSBC  were not communicating  with each other. H had 
provided a board resolution to HSBC  with its instructions about the closing funds in the 
account. The directors are not resident in the United Kingdom  and it is not clear  if H will be 
able to open another account. Over  six months had passed since  the account  closure.  The 
calls it made  took up management time and it wanted to know how it could be compensated 
for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked HSBC for some clarification about what had happened. It made  a number of points 
to me and Ill explain what I think about them below.  HSBC  accepts  that H had been subject 
to a long review in 2018 and this had covered the repayment of its term loan that had 
expired in 2011. The conclusion of that review  was a decision that it no longer wanted  to 
offer a bank account. And it wrote to H about  that. Separately it had identified that H would 
have needed to complete a safeguard review  for a different purpose  and to help guard 
against financial crime and fraud.  HSBC accepted that as the account was being  closed 
anyway there was no requirement  for that review. And that it was started  and then stopped 
within a matter of days. A further  letter saying  that the account would be closed was issued. 
HSBC maintains it gave  the required notice even if its final response  letter  was not 
technically correct in explaining the reasons for this.
Ref: DRN71354562my assessment
As H has explained its directors are not based  in this country. It has said that the address for 
correspondence from HSBC is a service address. I understand its position  to be that it did 
not receive the letters from HSBC about  the account  closure. From what Ive seen Ive no 
reason to think that these letters were not correctly dispatched. And HSBC did not need to 
do more than send  a letter about the account closure  there was no requirement  to follow 
that up with an email or telephone call.
The first letter about the account closure was dated  14 August 2018. It said that it had 
conducted a thorough review and that we will not longer  be able to provide you with 
banking service and products...  The date for the account closure was to be 14 October  
2018.
Ive seen evidence  that this review  had been  taking  place over a number of months. And H 
has provided a related  email from HSBC dated 18 July 2018 which seemed to agree to H 
repaying the business loan at £1,000 per month starting from 1 August 2018.  But I think  the 
subsequent letter made clear that in fact HSBC did not want to continue with the banking  
relationship.
On 16 August 2018 a different member of HSBC  staff sent an email  to H about the 
safeguard review. There was also a letter  sent about  this that day. H assumed that the 
information required as part of this review would  have been covered in the previous review. 
And it sent an email  to the author that day giving the name of the person carrying the other 
review out. HSBC did not respond to that. But Ive seen internal correspondence showing 
that HSBC realised what had happened  and that the safeguard review was no longer 
necessary.
This led to HSBC sending  a second  letter giving notice of closure dated 21 August 2018 
stating that the account would be closed because H had not provided the required 
information. This letter said that the closure  date would be 24 October  2018.
I dont think it was reasonable  for H to assume that its account would not be closed. HSBC 
had sent it two letters saying that the account would be closed.  And Im afraid HSBC had 
made its position about closing the account clear. HSBC could reasonably  think  that H had 
received these letters.
But as Ive indicated  it does not appear  that H had made reliable arrangements to receive  
letters from the service company. So that when the account was inhibited  there  were  a 
number of problems  that resulted. I need to think about whether those were  inevitable ones 
as no action had been taken to respond  to the letters. I think  in large part that was the case. 
But what  didnt help was that the explanation  that HSBC gave for the account closure was 
based on the second letter. I understand why H thought that HSBC not following up on its 
email and only allowing  five days for the information was unreasonable. But Ive now 
explained the actual position  here as I understand  it.
HSBC stands by its decision to close the account  and Im afraid I agree that its followed its 
own terms and conditions  in giving notice. It doesnt need a reason to do so if it provides two 
months notice as it did here. I would note that where it does choose  to give a reason I would 
have expected that to be a correct one but for the reasons  Ive given that still doesnt  affect  
the outcome here.
Ref: DRN71354563Once the account is closed HSBC insists on paying money to H alone. I can understand that 
position as there is no mandate  anymore  and so requirement for it to follow that mandate 
even under a board  resolution.  There are no more payments  made from the account as the 
closure letter explains. I dont think HSBC can be responsible for any consequences of it 
following its normal process  here.
I consider that HSBCs communication has been poor. And I think its internal communication 
has been affected by the short period  of two days that separated  one review  finishing and 
another starting. But even if HSBC had clarified  this better by letter I dont  think  this would 
have made  a difference for two reasons. Firstly H did not appear to be either receiving or 
acting on the letters about the account closure.  And secondly the clear  decision of HSBC 
was to close the account which would  always have resulted in the issues  for H that its 
mentioned. Complaint handling  is not a separate regulated  activity  and having thought 
carefully about what H says I am not persuaded  that any compensation for H as a separate  
legal entity to the director is warranted  here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135456