K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Ulster Bank Ltd allowed a service provider to reinstate a direct  debit 
after hed cancelled  it.
background
Mr D cancelled a direct debit with Ulster Bank  in September 2017 but the service  provider 
reinstated the direct debit in November  2017. Mr D didnt realise the direct debit was 
reinstated until several months later by which time the provider  had taken almost  £500 in 
direct debits from his account. When he realised  this he contacted  Ulster Bank about the 
money that had gone out. But Ulster Bank  said,  because thered been no bank  error  it 
couldnt give a refund and he should contact the service provider if he disputed  the 
payments. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this so he came to this service. Our investigator didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  so Mr D asked  for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why. 
Although Mr D cancelled  the direct  debit, Ulster  Bank  would have no way of knowing 
whether or not he was still in a contract  with the service provider. This is why the direct debit 
indemnity process  doesnt apply to cases where  a direct debit is reinstated  by the service 
provider. So I dont  think Ulster Bank needed  to refund Mr D the payments taken after he 
cancelled.
Its unfortunate that the direct  debits went on for so long before Mr D realised what was 
happening. Ulster Bank didnt contact Mr D before reinstating the direct debit on request 
from the service provider. But it did send regular bank statements which  showed  Mr D the 
direct debit was active. So I think it did enough  to give Mr D the information he needed  to 
take the issue up with the service provider if he questioned the payments. I understand that 
hes now taking that up with the service  provider and I hope  hell be able to resolve things 
directly with them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7981951