K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc has allowed money to be taken out of 
her account  without her authority.
background
Ms B says that RBS had allowed her husband  - who has now passed away  - to take money  
out of her savings account. She thinks the total is about  £14,500.  This happened  when he 
was unwell and vulnerable.
RBS said it wouldnt be refunding any money  to Ms B. It said that it had looked at the 
payments from the account since 2008 and said that the majority of payments were  transfers  
to Ms Bs current  account. Ms B hadnt  specifically identified which  of the payments she 
hadnt made, and it had sent her copies  of her statements  so she could mark them.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-RBS no longer had the original application  form for the savings account opened in 
2004. But it had shown that in January  2010 Ms B had signed a removal  of party 
form for this savings account.  This removed her husband as a joint account holder. 
-Ms B accepted that this signature captured at the time seemed to be hers.  And he 
told her that if she wanted an expert to analyse whether it was genuine  that was 
something she would need to arrange.   
-He provided a list of the payments from the account. All those from the savings 
account after 2010 had been transfers to her current account in her sole name.  So 
even if her husband had somehow still been able to use the account there hadnt 
been a loss for Ms B.
-Ms B had said that her husband had also been subject to fraud from his account, but 
we couldnt look at that in a complaint about  her account.
Ms B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed.  She said that she disputed ever 
having a joint savings account  with her husband and wanted to see the application  form. She 
understood from a manager in her local branch that her husband had come in every  couple 
of weeks and taken  money from her account. She is questioning payments before 2012 
when he went into a care home. She came to realise the money  was missing after he 
passed away in 2017 and she had financial  difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficulties Ms B has been facing. And I know she genuinely 
believes money has been taken out of her account without her knowing about  it.
Im afraid I dont think that there  is evidence  of fraud  here.  RBS isnt required to retain  
records indefinitely. But the documentation  now available shows  that this savings account 
was held in joint names for at least a period before January 2010. Ms B says she didnt sign 
the removal of party  form. I agree with our investigator that it seems genuine. And I cant  see 
it would  make sense for anyone to forge  that form  as it meant her husband was no longer 
a party  to the account.
Ref: DRN77368952Our investigator has arranged for Ms B to have  copies  of the statements for both her savings 
and current account.  He also provided analysis  to show that the transfers had been made 
from the savings  account  to Ms Bs own current account. Shes  not told us about any fraud  
from her current  account and which seemed to have genuine payments. So, Im not 
persuaded that there is any evidence of loss from her savings account.
I dont doubt that Ms B was distressed  to realise  she didnt have as much money saved as 
she thought she should from her pension. And for this to have come at a time of personal 
loss and financial issues for her. I can only look here at whether there is a basis  to say that 
RBS should refund any money to her. I know she will be deeply disappointed  when I tell her 
that for the reasons Ive given I dont think that there  is and so I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7736895