K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Tait Walker  Financial Services Ltd (TW) has not managed his pension  
plan adequately since 2009 or undertaken appropriate reviews. He says that this has caused  
his pension to be worth less than it otherwise  would  have been. He has said that his wifes 
similar plan is worth significantly more. Mr C also complains about  the fees that were taken 
by TW. 
 
background
Mr C had a group personal pension plan provided  by his employer, into which  his employer 
was paying contributions.  In 2009 a fund switch took place to a Cautious Managed 
investment fund. No further switches took place.  
TW did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that a fund switch had been undertaken in 2009  
after a risk assessment  took place which showed Mr C was cautious.  It said existing 
reviews were arranged with Mr Cs employer but it was disengaged so it was unable  to 
provide any future reviews to individual members or review the scheme as a whole. 
It said the charges/commission to be taken were agreed with Mr Cs employer. However it 
offered to refund the fund based  commission it had received of about  £110.  
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service at which  point  TW said that the complaint had 
been made too late  outside the applicable time limits. This issue  was then considered by 
an ombudsman who said that whilst  it was too late for Mr C to complain  about  the switch  to 
the Cautious Managed fund (his complaint  that he wasnt aware  of it), she did think that the 
issue of Mr C being invested differently to his wife and the suitability of the fund itself, could 
be considered. She also thought that the issue of ongoing reviews/charges could  be 
considered.
The merits of the complaint  were then considered by an investigator.  She did not believe the 
complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that the fund switch was unsuitable, as it was 
recommended in line with Mr Cs attitude to risk. She believed the crux of the complaint was 
about the value of the plan as it hadn't performed  in the same way as Mrs C's. She clarified 
that disappointment  with investment performance  was not normally something that would be 
considered a valid cause for complaint. She didnt  think that TW had a requirement  to carry 
out proactive reviews  and Mr C could have contacted an adviser  if he required a review.   
With respect to the charges taken by TW, she was satisfied  that Mr Cs employer was made 
aware of the commission to be taken from the plan for the provision of advice in setting up 
the plan. She hadnt seen any evidence of a commitment to provide ongoing advice to Mr C.
She suggested that Mr C should consider whether  to accept TWs offer to refund the fund 
based commission charged on the plan - totalling  about  £110.
Mr C did not accept the investigators  assessment.  In summary he said:
If TW was not under any obligation to provide any ongoing advice or service, why did 
they recontact  him after two years  to recommend  changing  his investment into 
cautious managed  funds? This led him to believe it was being managed. If it had not 
taken it upon itself to recommend this, he would  be in a much better financial state. 
He believed that TWFS set a precedent by doing this.
Ref: DRN70103452He had never been in touch with TW in relation to pensions  for other employees. This 
is dealt with through the main office  and the employees themselves. His pension  was 
totally separate from the rest of the employees.
He believed that TW cannot state that advice was only given when  the pension  was 
taken out in 2007 as they themselves  have contradicted this and therefore his 
complaint should be upheld  and compensation paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree materially with 
the findings of the investigator.
I have seen a risk assessment for Mr and Mrs C which they have  signed  and dated on 11 
February 2009. This resulted  in a risk grading at the more cautious  end of the risk spectrum.  
Although I have not seen any documented recommendations  which  followed this, a switch 
was then made from Mr Cs existing pension funds to a Cautious Managed  fund. I see that 
Mr C signed the instruction  to switch to the Cautious Managed  fund in March 2009. It is likely 
that this switch followed the assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk  which showed that 
current investment choices presented too much  risk. So the switch  was not in my view 
unsuitable and seems appropriate in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr Cs comment  that he still had a significant  period until retirement and 
therefore questions  whether this more cautious fund would be appropriate. There is certainly 
an argument that when an investor  has a longer time horizon in which to invest, then more 
risk can be taken  because it allows any volatility to even out. But he was still invested  in a 
risk based  fund which contained  an appreciable amount of stocks  and shares  so 
considering his attitude to risk, it seems  to me a reasonable balance was struck  between 
timescale and attitude to risk. 
It is correct that Mr Cs wifes pension has a higher value than Mr Cs. But that is the result of 
being invested in different funds  which  were  seemingly thought unsuitable  for Mr C in 2009 
because of his attitude to risk. It is not necessarily  the result of poor management but what 
different returns different  funds have produced over time. 
Mr C could have taken  a higher degree of risk with this fund choices but that would not likely 
have been appropriate for his attitude to risk. Taking  higher risks does  generally  present the 
opportunity for higher  returns, but also greater  losses. The fact that Mr Cs pension is worth 
less than Mrs Cs is not therefore evidence of mismanagement. And it is also not evidence  of 
his pension not performing well. I think that comment  is made with reference  to Mrs Cs 
pension value  which is not an appropriate  comparison as it was invested at a different risk 
level since 2009. It would appear that Mr Cs pension is worth  significantly more than the 
contributions invested  albeit less than Mrs Cs. 
 
I note Mr Cs query about his wife not similarly being advised to switch to the same fund. 
Notwithstanding that they are individuals with separate  plans (and therefore can take 
independent decisions  about them), the evidence indicates that it was also intended that his 
wife was to switch at the same time (there is a letter of February 2009 that indicates that 
switch forms were  expected from both Mr and Mrs C). So it would appear that they were  
given the same advice  but, for whatever reason, Mrs Cs switch was not actioned. It may 
Ref: DRN70103453well be therefore that she was invested in higher  risk funds that were suitable for her since 
2009. But that would appear  to have generated a higher value that would otherwise have 
been the case.  
In terms of reviews, TW did carry out at least one review for Mr C. But I dont believe that set 
a precedent that it should do so after that point. I have not seen any agreement to provide 
regular reviews or that TW agreed to manage  Mr Cs pension  on an ongoing  basis.  Mr C 
could have requested a review from a financial adviser if required.  
I would also say that, in any event, it is not possible to know with any certainty whether  any 
fund switches that could have been made  since 2009, within  a suitable level of risk for Mr C, 
would have produced any increase in the value of the pension,  even  if it could be known 
when such switches would have  been made.
In terms of the fees or commission that TW received,  it did agree its fees and how they 
would be recouped for provision of its advice with Mr Cs employer at outset.  That did not 
include providing ongoing proactive reviews. Having said that it has agreed to refund the 
fund based commission  of about  £110.
 
In summary,  it is more likely than not that the fund switch in 2009 was made so that the risks 
being taken were appropriate  for Mr Cs attitude  to risk. And I have not seen that TW were 
required to provide ongoing  reviews  after that point. Even  then, there is no certainty  such 
reviews would have  produced  a better  result  in terms of pension value.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. If Mr C wishes to accept TWs offer he can 
contact it direct. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7010345