K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four loans Satsuma provided to Mr L between  June 2016 and 
September 2017. Mr Ls borrowing history  is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 15/06/2016 09/12/2016 26 weeks £500.00 £184.15
2 03/09/2016 20/01/2017 26 weeks £470.00 £285.80
3 28/02/2017 26/11/2017 10 months £550.00 £110.00
4 14/09/2017 26/02/2018 12 months £660.00 £219.56
Mr L said that the proper checks  were  not carried out and he didnt think any of the loans 
would be issued if his statements  had been checked, as he had other short-term loans with 
other lenders. He also said he was struggling  to pay his current overdraft and everyday 
expenses. Mr L also told us Satsuma offered a new loan on the same day as repaying his 
first loan and his third loan was given as he was part way paying off his second loan. His 
fourth loan meant he was in great debt, encouraged him to borrow more  than he could truly 
afford, and it has affected his health.
In its final response,  to Mr L, Satsuma said it would not uphold his complaint.  It told Mr L it 
had carried out various  checks  which did not demonstrate the loans  issued were  
unaffordable or unsustainable at the time of the applications.
Initially, our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said she didnt think  it would have 
been proportionate to ask for the amount of information needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable. Later, she thought Satsuma should  have taken steps to build a better picture 
of Mr Ls financial situation.  But she said she hadnt seen anything in the information  
provided which might suggest  the lender would have known that the repayment  of the loans 
was unsustainable.  Mr L disagreed with this view. He said if the proper checks  had been  
carried out, he wouldnt have been issued with loans 3 and 4. 
Another adjudicator  reviewed the complaint and told both parties that he thought  that loans 
2,3 and 4 should not have been given. Satsuma didnt respond so the complaint was passed 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN71295082the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to 
uphold loans  2,3 and 4.
As our second adjudicator explained when Satsuma gave loan1 to Mr L, it was early in the 
relationship and I think the checks  Satsuma did were proportionate and wouldnt have 
indicated that the repayments for this loan were unaffordable.
But on its own checks Satsuma said it applied safeguarding buffers and worked  out that 
Mr Ls disposable income after repaying  the loans would have been £19.07 for loan 2 and 
£40.49 when Mr L borrowed loan 3. When Mr L borrowed loan 2 he still had loan 1 
outstanding and looking at the amounts  Mr L would have had available to him in disposable 
income for both loans  2 and 3, I dont  think he would have had enough for any unforeseen 
expenditure he might have needed.  I think Satsuma should have been alerted to the fact that 
the repayments for loans 2 and 3 were unsustainable.
When Mr L borrowed loan 4, this time Mr L had loan 3 still outstanding. His recorded 
disposable income by Satsuma was £95.78- so it was higher than it had been for loans 2 
and 3. But at this point, Mr L had now been indebted to Satsuma for over a year without any 
Ref: DRN71295083substantial break and loan 4 for £660  was the largest amount Mr L had asked to borrow over 
a longer period of twelve months. So, I think further checks  should  have been carried  out so 
that a more detailed picture  could be gained of Mr Ls financial circumstances. If it had 
carried out further checks I think it would have been made aware  that Mr L was already 
indebted to around three other  short-term  lenders and still had loan 3 outstanding. So, I think  
Satsuma should  have been  alerted to the fact that Mr L was having problems managing 
money and that his repayments for loan 4 were  also likely  unaffordable  and unsustainable. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2,3 and 4 and Satsuma should put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on 2,3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about 2,3 and 4 from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7129508