K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains National Westminster Bank  Plc unfairly placed a Credit  Industry  Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He wants  NatWest  to remove  the 
marker.  
background
Mr A had a current account and savings account with NatWest.
Below is a list of the relevant transactions   
Date & time Credit Debit Transaction details
09/03/2018 23:28 £500 Bank transfer from bank  B into 
Mr As current account
10/03/2018 01:56 £500 Bank transfer from bank  B into 
Mr As current account
10/03/2018 13:40 £900 Branch  cash withdrawal  using 
Chip and PIN
11/03/2018 05:11 £3,500 Bank transfer from bank  B into 
Mr As current account
12/03/2018 £3,150 Mr C  ref: overheads - bank
transfer in branch using Chip and 
PIN
12/03/2018 £250 Mr C  ref: overheads - bank
transfer via mobile  banking  to 
Mr Cs account
13/03/2018 11:18 £2,500 Bank transfer from bank  B into 
Mr As current account
13/03/2018 £200 
£200 
£200
£200
£200
£200
£200
£200
£200
£200
£20011 Betting shop withdrawals using  
CHIP and PIN
TOTAL £7,000 £6,500
On 27 March, NatWest were contacted by bank B. Bank B said their customer did not 
authorise the four payments made  into Mr As account on 9, 10, 11, and 13 March 2018. 
On 28 March 2018, NatWest contacted Mr A and spoke to him about the payments into his 
account. Mr A told NatWest that they were  from a friend, who I will refer to as Mr C, who 
didnt have access to his bank account card. To help Mr C hed allowed him to pay money 
into his account.  And then Mr A transferred the money back  into Mr Cs personal account. 
Mr A told NatWest  that the money had come from Mr Cs joint business account.  
Ref: DRN72669332On 29 March 2018, NatWest removed the money left in Mr As account, £1,405.01 and 
returned it to the sending  bank. NatWest made a decision to close Mr As account but 
allowed Mr A to withdraw the remaining balance in his savings account. 
On 4 April 2018,  Mr A rang NatWest to make  a complaint. During the call he told NatWest 
that I took a payment through my sort code  and account number in March, and I transferred 
it back to my friend, I done him a favour. I took it out from the bank myself. Later in the call 
Mr A told NatWest  that he had been a victim and believed  Mr C had used him as a money 
mule. 
Mr A says because NatWest applied the CIFAS  marker,  he hasnt been able to open  another  
bank account,  which has caused him a great deal of trouble and upset. In particular, 
Mr A says hes had problems being able to get a job because he cant  provide any potential 
employer with a bank account. So he wants NatWest to remove  the CIFAS  marker.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint and asked him some  additional questions about 
the four payments.  Mr A told the investigator  that at the time he sold trainers via an online 
platform and through  word of mouth. He said hed met a customer,  Mr C, and sold him two 
pairs of trainers. Mr A explained that prior to the four payments hed sold Mr C trainers  and a 
shoe cleaning kit. He said his contact with Mr C was mainly via phone and WhatsApp (a 
messaging service).
Mr A said in March 2018, he sold Mr C a pair of trainers  for £100. But Mr C accidently 
transferred too much  money to Mr As account.  And instead of £100 he paid £1,000 to his 
account, in two separate payments of £500. So Mr A withdrew £900 from a branch, met 
Mr C and gave him the £900 and trainers.
Following this, Mr A said he sold Mr C another pair of trainers  and the same  thing happened 
again. Except this time Mr C deposited £3,500 into Mr As bank account. Mr A says he took 
out the cost of the trainers (£450) and transferred  the balance, £3,150 back to Mr C. 
Mr A told the investigator that the same thing happened a third time on 13 March  2018, 
when Mr C transferred £2,500 into his bank account.  Mr A explained that on this occasion  
Mr C contacted him and asked him to withdraw  the whole amount in cash.  Mr A says at first 
he didnt agree. But Mr C came to his home  address.  Mr A said Mr C wouldnt leave him 
alone and was pestering him. So he agreed to withdraw the money at a nearby  betting shop 
and give it to Mr C. Mr A says at the betting shop he used his card in the cashiers terminal  
and entered his CHIP and PIN repeatedly. He then gave Mr C the cash. 
The investigator asked  Mr A why he had provided  a different explanation to NatWest.  Mr A 
said when he first contacted NatWest  he didnt explain that the payment was for goods  hed 
provided as hed been receiving letters from HMRC and didnt want to get in to trouble for 
not paying tax from the sales he made  selling footwear. 
The investigator asked  Mr A to provide evidence of his footwear sales,  his contact with Mr C 
and letters from HMRC  regarding tax payments. Mr C said he was no longer able to contact 
Mr C. And he wasnt able to provide any copies of letters hed received from HMRC or any 
invoices for sales of trainers. 
Mr C did provide screenshots  of some Whatsapp  messages he said were from Mr C. The 
messages show Mr A sent Mr C a screenshot of his bank statement on 11 March  2018. 
There are also missed  calls from Mr A to Mr C on 12 and 13 March 2018.  On 18 March 
Ref: DRN726693332018, Mr C sent Mr A several messages asking where he is. Theres  also a message on 24 
March 2018 threatening Mr A. 
The investigator didnt  think NatWest had done  anything wrong when it applied the CIFAS 
marker. She said Mr A had received fraudulent  funds into his account over a period  of days  
in four separate transactions, which had been  moved out of the account quickly.  And whilst 
she accepted  that mistakes can happen,  she thought it was unlikely that Mr A wouldve 
received an overpayment for trainers from the same customer  on three  occasions.  Mr A 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Prior to making my decision I also 
contacted Mr A for some  more information.  
NatWest says it applied  the CIFAS marker because Mr A received  fraudulent  funds into his 
account. So Ive looked at whether NatWest  was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. And what  the rules say about applying 
such markers.
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good reason to 
believe it could have  suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press  
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should  be more  than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker  can have  on someone,  the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached  to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Ive considered the information NatWest has provided to support  its actions.  This includes 
the information it received from bank B on 27 March 2018, which  alerted NatWest  that the 
£7,000 which was paid into Mr As account between 9 and 13 March  2018 was fraudulent. 
And that their customer hadnt authorised the payments. 
I can see that NatWest spoke to Mr A on 28 March 2018, to give him an opportunity to 
explain the circumstances surrounding  the payments into his account. From looking at the 
contact notes, I can see that Mr A told NatWest  the payments were from a friend  who didnt 
have access to his card, so allowed him to place the funds into his account.and believed  it 
had been sent from a joint business account  and thats why the names were different on his 
statement. But based on the information  from bank B, Mr As explanation wasnt correct. 
Taken together, I think  the information  NatWest relied upon to record  the marker, did provide 
them with a reasonable cause for concern. 
Ive also considered what Mr A told our investigator about the payments into his account. 
Mr As explanation was different to what he told NatWest. He told the investigator  that hed 
sold Mr C trainers  and that Mr C had simply over paid him, not once or twice, but on three  
separate occasions. However, despite  being asked by our investigator, Mr A hasnt been 
able to provide  any evidence  of selling footwear to Mr C. So whilst I can accept mistakes 
such as overpayments  can happen,  I think its unlikely this happened  with the frequency 
Mr A suggested. 
Ref: DRN72669334 
On 4 April 2018,  during  a phone call, Mr A told NatWest that hed been a victim and after 
completing some research realised hed been  used as a money mule by Mr C.
Ive already said that before reporting a customer to CIFAS,  a business needs to be satisfied 
that the circumstances  and issues  its concerned about meet  certain criteria. There are a 
number of different  criteria, but they include whether  a business could make a formal 
complaint to the police  or other law enforcement  agency and whether there are reasonable 
grounds to believe  that a fraud or financial crime has been committed. NatWest  has 
confirmed that it feels  that the reasons it reported Mr A to CIFAS met these criteria.  
Its not in dispute  that Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account.  Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr A tried to cancel these credits  or disputed them with NatWest.  And despite  
Mr As concern about being used as a money mule Ive not seen any evidence that Mr A 
contacted the police.  I also havent seen any evidence that supports Mr As explanation  that 
his interaction with Mr C was purely  a business  transaction based on the sale of trainers.   
Instead the evidence shows Mr A retained some of these  fraudulent  funds, approximately  
£500. And he provided an explanation  to NatWest about the payments which he knew was 
untrue. 
I spoke to Mr A on the telephone prior to coming  to my decision. I asked him if he could 
provide any evidence of his trainer sales business. Including the sales  hed made  to Mr C. 
Mr A explained that at the time, he had sold trainers using an online  platform but this 
account was no longer  active. So he didnt think he would be able to provide me with any 
evidence. I asked him to explain why hed given NatWest a different explanation to what hed 
told our investigator.  Mr A said he was concerned about tax implications as hed been 
receiving letters from HMRC.  I asked him to provide  me with copies of the letters.  But he 
said he had been  unable to locate any. And that HMRC had been very difficult to contact.
Mr A confirmed that he had authorised all of the transfers and withdrawals from his account 
to Mr C. He explained  that on one occasion  he went with Mr C to a betting  shop.  And that he 
put his card into the cashiers terminal, entered his PIN a number of times and gave the cash  
to Mr C. Mr A said he did this because Mr C had come to his address wanting the money  
hed paid into his account and the banks had closed  for the day.
I asked Mr A why he didnt question the transfers  into his account. Mr A said he did. But that 
Mr C kept putting money into his account  and pestering him. Mr A said he just wanted Mr C 
to go away and leave  him alone. And that Mr C had threatened him. So he withdrew some  of 
the money and authorised transfers  to Mr Cs account.
Mr A said he was no longer in contact with Mr C. And said he hadnt reported the matter to 
the police  because hed transferred the amounts back  to Mr Cs account.  So he didnt think  
Mr C had done anything  dodgy as the money was going back into his account. Mr A said he 
didnt report Mr C to the police for threatening him as he thought the matter was dealt with 
once hed given  Mr C the money.   . 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said. Having done so, I think  its possible that 
Mr A did feel threatened by Mr C as hes described. But I also have to take into account  that 
Mr A didnt report this to the police. Its also possible that Mr A did sell Mr C some trainers. 
But despite  being asked, Mr A hasnt  been able to provide any evidence of these  sales such 
as invoices, adverts or stock. Ive also kept in mind that Mr A provided  different explanations 
Ref: DRN72669335to the bank and our investigator about  his involvement with Mr C and the reason why the 
money was paid into his account. 
Im satisfied that fraudulent funds were  paid into Mr As account.  Mr A has confirmed he 
authorised the removal of these funds. And that he kept £500 of the fraudulent funds  to 
cover the costs of the trainers he says he sold to Mr C. Having reviewed all the available  
information here, I agree that NatWests  reasons met the criteria too  so I think  its fair that 
it reported Mr A to CIFAS. And Im not going to ask NatWest to remove the marker. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both NatWest and Mr A had to comply  with, 
say that under certain circumstances it could  close Mr As accounts immediately. However, I 
note that NatWest wrote to Mr A and gave  him 14 days notice. I think this is a reasonable 
amount of time for Mr A to make alternative  banking arrangements. So its entitled to close  
the accounts as it seems  its already  done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7266933