K821x#15complaint                            
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mrs H in 2003.
Its been agreed that AXA France  IARD (AXA)  will take responsibility for the sale and this 
complaint. So to keep things simple  Ive referred just to AXA in this decision.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 12 March  2020,  which forms part of this final decision. 
In that earlier decision  I set out the background to and circumstances of this complaint and 
explained why I was intending  to uphold it. I invited Mrs H and AXA to send me any more 
information or comments theyd like me to think about before issuing my final decision. 
Neither of them has sent anything  further, although AXA has said that while it has no more 
points to raise, it doesnt agree with my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
From doing  that Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional  decision, for the 
same reasons. I still think that on balance its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. 
putting things right
AXA is to put Mrs H in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
So AXA should:
A. Find out how much Mrs H wouldve  owed  when she closed her store card account if 
the PPI policy  hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple  interest on the difference between what Mrs H wouldve owed 
when she closed her account, from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN72292912C. If, when  AXA works  out what Mrs H wouldve owed each month without PPI, Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, AXA should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed AXA something  on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs H what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs H that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress  shown above.
  H.M.  Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding this complaint.  AXA France  IARD is to pay Mrs H 
the fair compensation that Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72292913                                       copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mrs H in 2003.  
Its been  agreed that AXA France  IARD (AXA)  will take responsibility for the sale and this complaint. 
So to keep things simple  Ill refer just to AXA in this decision,  although AXA didnt actually sell the 
PPI. 
background
In 2003 Mrs H took out a monthly premium PPI policy relating to a store card account. Along with 
other cover which it provided,  the policy  would  pay part of her account balance  each month if she 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness or lost her job. The policy was later cancelled. AXA 
says that by then Mrs H had paid premiums totalling just under £36.
Mrs H thinks  the PPI was mis-sold and she wants the premiums repaid,  together with any resultant 
extra charges and interest.  Among other things, she says the cost and terms of the PPI werent fully 
explained to her. And she feels her employee benefits,  savings and other insurances meant she didnt 
really need it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mrs H disagrees. So its come to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive provisionally decided that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I can see from her application form for the store card, completed in July 2002, that Mrs H didnt ask 
for PPI at that stage.  But based  on AXAs records, I think its likely that she took out the PPI over the 
phone, around nine months  after her card account was opened.  
Understandably after such a long time, theres no recording or note of that phone  call available now. 
And equally understandably Mrs H doesnt have much recollection of it. AXA says she wouldve been 
given information about the PPI during  the call, followed up later by written details. But I dont know 
what was discussed about PPI, or why she apparently changed her mind  about  having  it. And Mrs H 
feels it wasnt  properly  explained to her.  
Mrs H and AXA are agreed that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to her personally. As far as I know, 
thats probably right.  This meant AXA didnt  have  to find out about her circumstances, to check  that 
the policy  would meet her needs. She had to decide that for herself.
But AXA did still have  to give Mrs H clear and full information about the cost, benefits  and main 
features of the PPI, before  she agreed to buy it, so she could decide  if it was right for her. And Im 
proposing to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because,  looking at the information Ive been given,  I dont 
think AXA did this well enough.
The policy provided  her with benefits if she was off work  owing  to illness or injury, or lost her job. But 
Ive not currently been shown that Mrs H was made sufficiently aware  of, or wouldve  properly 
Ref: DRN72292914understood, the PPIs cost or the benefits it offered.  And from what  Ive been told about her 
circumstances, I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs H. 
Mrs H has told us that she wouldve got good  sick pay if she was off work  because  of accident or 
sickness  six months full pay and then six months of half pay. Looking at the job she had, I think  
thats likely to be right.  Shed  been in her public  sector role for approaching 20 years when she took 
out the PPI, so its likely she wouldve felt it was fairly secure. And shed probably have got a good 
redundancy package if shed lost it.
Shes also told us that she had around £2000 in readily accessible savings when she took out the 
PPI, and Ive no reason  to doubt what shes said. And since  our adjudicator expressed her views on 
the complaint, Mrs H has sent us information  showing  she had an income  protection policy in place 
too, which  would seemingly have paid out £200 per week after her full sick pay ended. Ive also now 
seen evidence that Mrs H had accidental  permanent injury insurance  and possibly  critical illness 
cover at that time, as well as an investment plan which  she says she couldve cashed in whole or part 
if necessary.
I dont have full details of these other insurances, or evidence of her savings.  But although  it may not 
have fully duplicated the PPI, when  this other cover is taken into account, along with her job situation,  
employee benefits  and likely savings, in my view Mrs H probably wouldnt have felt she had a real 
need for the PPI, if shed  properly  understood its cost and benefits. 
Overall, Ive not so far been  shown that AXA gave Mrs H good enough  information  about  the PPI. And 
in her particular circumstances I dont think she wouldve wanted the policy, or thought it provided  
value for money, if shed been given better details of it. To my mind  its unlikely that she wouldve 
taken it out. I think shes lost out because of what AXA did wrong. 
So on balance, on the information  Ive got at present I think its fair and reasonable to uphold  her 
complaint. And I dont need to deal with the other issues shes  raised about the sale.  
what Ill be telling AXA to do
I propose to tell AXA to put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
So AXA should:
A. Find out how much  Mrs H wouldve  owed  when she closed her store  card account  if the PPI 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her account 
and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H wouldve owed when 
she closed her account, from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. If, when AXA works out what Mrs H wouldve owed each  month without  PPI, Mrs H paid more  
than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mrs H paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mrs H wouldve  owed AXA something 
on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN72292915D. AXA should  tell Mrs H what  its done  to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs H that relates to this PPI sale, that 
sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
  H.M. Revenue & Customs requires  AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must  give Mrs H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive read and been told up to now, Im intending to uphold this complaint and to tell 
AXA France IARD to pay the compensation  Ive set out above.
But I invite Mrs H and AXA to send me, by the date Ive said, any more information or comments 
theyd like me to consider before I give my final decision.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7229291