K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix  Life Limited unfairly  delayed the payment of a lump sum he 
was due following  the commutation  of some pension benefits.
background
Mr P took out a free standing additional  voluntary contribution (FSAVC) pension plan with 
Abbey Life in 1988. Phoenix is now responsible for Abbey Life and for ease I will refer to 
Phoenix as the responsible business throughout this decision.
The FSAVC  that Mr P took was subject to exit penalties  if the benefits  were taken before his 
normal retirement date. For Mr Ps plan that retirement date was his 65th birthday in 
March 2019. Mr P has said that the exit penalties  that originally applied  were significant. But 
he also notes that following  recent  changes in legislation these  charges  were capped at 1% 
of the value of his pension  fund.
In June 2018 Mr Ps financial  advisor contacted Phoenix to request details of the benefits  
that would  be due to Mr P the following year. Phoenix issued this information and in 
September 2018 Mr P got in touch to say that he wished to take his benefits in the form of a 
commutation payment.  He completed the required documentation and this was received by 
Phoenix in October  2018.
Around a week  before Mr Ps 65th birthday Phoenix  wrote to him to confirm that it had all the 
information it needed to pay his retirement benefits.  In that letter Phoenix confirmed that it 
would carry out Mr Ps selected  retirement  instructions on his retirement date and that any 
payment would be made no later than two weeks after that date.
Mr Ps 65th birthday  was on a Sunday. So he agrees that it would be unreasonable to expect 
Phoenix to have processed  the payment due to him on that day. But he says that he should 
have been sent the money  due to him the following day when Phoenixs offices reopened. 
But Mr P didnt receive his pension benefits the day after his birthday. Phoenix didnt make  
the payment until a week later, and since the payment was made by BACS it wasnt received  
by Mr P until ten days after his 65th birthday.
Mr Ps complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  the time it 
had taken Phoenix to make the payment to Mr P was unreasonable  and the time taken 
was within  the service standards that Phoenix  had previously stated to Mr P. So she didnt 
think that Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
Ref: DRN71891002and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Mr P has said that he believes this dispute centres  on contract law. He thinks that in law it 
would be proven that Phoenix defaulted on the contract because  the payment was made  
late. But that isnt the basis on which this service decides complaints. Although  I will of 
course take the law into account, I am required to decide complaints on the basis  of what  is 
fair and reasonable. And so that is the test that I will apply here.
Phoenix has told us that it would  have been  unable to determine the value of Mr Ps pension  
benefits until his retirement date had passed. His pension fund was invested in assets that 
changed in value on a daily basis. So until it had valued those benefits at the selected  
retirement date Phoenix couldnt calculate  how much should be paid to Mr P. I think that is a 
reasonable explanation  of how this process should  work.
It took Phoenix a week to conclude its calculations. In itself that might  appear to be a 
relatively long time for what is a fairly simple calculation. But I also need to take into account 
what Phoenix would see as its normal service standards. It wouldnt normally be appropriate 
for me to interfere with what is after all a legitimate exercise of Phoenixs commercial 
processes. But I have considered the time taken, and think  that it falls well within  the bounds 
of what I would consider  to be reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr P sees this complaint, to some degree,  as a matter of principle. He has 
said that the sums involved and the compensation he is seeking  are not material. But he 
says that he has been,  to some extent, trapped into a pension  plan providing virtually no 
growth due to the exit penalties that Phoenix  imposed. He thinks that Phoenix shouldnt  be 
allowed to keep his money for any longer than the contractual  date that applied to his 
pension benefits.
I do have some sympathy for what Mr P has said. And if I thought  that Phoenix was 
deliberately delaying payment to him for financial gain then I would have  no hesitation in 
upholding his complaint. But here I think there  are reasonable and genuine reasons for the 
short delay between  Mr Ps 65th birthday and the payment  being  made.  And I think that 
timescale was within the expectations that Phoenix gave to Mr P when it notified him of the 
benefits he could  take. So I dont think Phoenix  has acted unfairly here,  and so I dont  think 
the complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7189100