K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  and closed his account. Mr Os also unhappy 
that Santander wont return money left in his account.
background
Mr O had had a current account with Santander.
In October  2018, Santander reviewed Mr Os account. And it asked Mr O to provide 
information about two payments of £400  which had been made into his account on 27 and 
31 October 2018. 
Whilst it conducted the review Santander  restricted Mr Os access to his account. And it 
asked Mr O to provide proof of his entitlement to the money in his account.  Soon after 
Santander received  a claim from another bank to say that one of the £400 credits  which  had 
been paid into Mr Os account was fraudulent. So it didnt release the money  to Mr O.
Mr O told Santander that the two credits were payment  for a car he was trying to source  and 
intended to sell overseas. And that he could  verify  all the credits  into his account.  He 
provided Santander with some  paperwork. But Santander said it needed more information.
In December 2018, Santander  closed  Mr Os account. And it hasnt allowed Mr O access  to 
the remaining  balance.  Santander says Mr O hasnt provided enough information about the 
origin of the money in his account. So its not satisfied that Mr O is entitled to the money in 
the account.
An investigator looked into Mr Os case. She said Santander acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it asked Mr O for more information about  the payments into his 
account. So she didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed. He accepts Santander can 
close his account.  But hes unhappy Santander wont  allow him access to the remaining 
balance in his account. So the complaint  has come  to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says he is entitled to the money  paid into his account. He says it is a legitimate 
business transaction and he hasnt done  anything  wrong. That may well be the case.  And I 
appreciate that Mr O is upset. But for me to uphold his complaint I have to think  the bank has 
done something wrong. And in this case,  I dont  think it has. Ill explain  why.
Banks must  be able to talk to each other to protect their customers  when money  has been 
sent to the wrong account or they believe  fraud has taken place. And this is what  happened  
here. The other bank  told Santander a credit to Mr Os account was fraudulent. So it 
returned the money to the other bank. Ive looked at the evidence  which  Santander relied on 
to return the money.  Having done  so, I cant say Santander has done anything  wrong.  
account access
Santander is required to have measures in place  to review payments. As part of its review 
process Santander are entitled to ask a customer for more information.  And its not for this 
Ref: DRN77297172service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened.
Mr O says the money going  into his account was payment for a car he intended  to source  
and ship overseas. Hes provided bank statements from a third party which he says shows 
the origin of the money. And hes provided  written statements from five individuals stating 
that they made numerous transfers into Mr Os account between 30 September and 1 
November 2018.  Mr O says this proves hes entitled to the money in his account. I dont 
agree. I say this because  the paperwork does not state the purpose or reason  why 
numerous credits were made into Mr Os account. Theres  no reference to any vehicles. Ive 
also not seen  any evidence to show Mr O had been  asked  to source a car for anyone.
Ive looked at Mr Os account activity  between January and November 2018. But again  
I cant see any reference to car purchases. Ive also kept in mind that there are multiple 
payments into Mr Os account, which Mr O told Santander he doesnt  recognise and cant 
explain. So  when I weight everything up, Im not satisfied that the paperwork  Mr O has 
provided so far in anyway supports what Mr O is saying about the origin of the payments into 
his account.
Santander has spoken to Mr O on more than one occasion and asked him to provide more 
information about the credits into his account.  Santander  also wrote to Mr O to let him know  
what it was doing.  So I think Santanders kept Mr O informed about what  its doing. And what 
information it needed from him. And Im satisfied Santander have taken appropriate 
measures to find a way forward for him to be able to access the money  remaining  in his 
bank account.  Mr O says he is still working  on collating the information Santander have 
asked him to provide. But so far Mr O hasnt been  able to show  that he is entitled  to the 
money remaining  in his account.
Having looked  at the evidence Im satisfied that Santander were acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations when reviewing  Mr Os account and asking him questions about 
the money in his account. I dont think its done anything  wrong. So Im not going  to ask 
Santander to return the money to him.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Os accounts confirm Santander can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. I think considering what  happened  in this case, its 
fair and reasonable Santander took the action  it did. I can see that Santander wrote  to Mr O 
in December 2018 to let him know it was closing his account. So Im satisfied Santander has 
complied with the terms and conditions. 
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  Mr Os frustrations with the situation  relating  to his 
account. And that the account  being blocked and subsequently closed impacted on him. I 
dont think Santander  failed to properly follow its own procedures.  So Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything.
Ref: DRN77297173my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 5 May 
2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7729717