K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about the poor service she received from TSB Bank Plc following its 
changes to its computer  systems. 
background
TSB made significant  and extensive  changes  to its computer systems in April 2018, which  
caused major problems,  both in the short and medium term for large numbers of its many  
customers. Customers had particular problems accessing their internet accounts, making 
payments into and from those accounts  and with contacting TSB to establish what  was 
happening. As a result  TSB was inundated  with complaints,  which it was unable  to deal with 
in a timely manner. This generated yet further complaints.
Mrs T was one of those affected by the computer  upgrade. Specific  problems she has 
complained about:  inability  to access her online account for around  two weeks; inability  to 
open a new monthly  saver account;  inability to close an existing account and transfer the 
balance plus interest to another account;  very long waiting times when trying to contact TSB 
by phone; TSB now sending her correspondence using  her full name rather than just her 
initial as it had in the past. 
Mrs T registered a number of complaints with TSB about these matters and with reference to 
her lack of internet access to her account  noted that she had opted for internet banking  as 
her nearest  branch was too far away for her to visit. TSB paid Mrs T £25 compensation for 
the lack of access to her account, and £6 to cover the cost of her phone calls.
Mrs T was dissatisfied with this saying  that shed spent a long time trying to resolve matters 
and had been significantly inconvenienced by what had happened.  She said shed made 
numerous phone calls and made  many branch visits.
Mrs Ts complaint was considered by our mass  complaints  department as the TSB computer 
upgrade had resulted in very large numbers  of complaints many  of which  raised similar 
issues.
Having considered all of the points  raised  by Mrs T our investigator  recommended that TSB 
pay Mrs T a total of £300 with that sum inclusive of any money  TSB had already  paid.
TSB accepted that outcome, but Mrs T did not. She was particularly concerned that the 
recommended amount  didnt adequately compensate her for the many journeys shed made 
to her branch during  that period or for her numerous  phone calls. She said shed requested  
and received a copy of her personal data from TSB,  but was exceedingly disappointed to 
discover that the bank hadnt  recorded  all her phone calls or branch visits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues  raised  by Mrs T are typical of those  experienced  by many thousands of other 
TSB customers when it tried to move  them from one computer system to another. To 
describe the short term result as chaotic would not in my view be overstating  the case.  
Ref: DRN76211402Customers were  inconvenienced to a greater  or lesser extent and many  incurred financial 
penalties when direct  debits werent paid and their salaries werent credited to their accounts 
resulting in overdraft  fees and charges. This was plainly  a major failure on TSBs part from 
which it has taken it many months to recover. It was also inundated with complaints that it 
didnt have the resources to deal with in a timely fashion.
Looking at the impact  on Mrs T it is clear  that she was unable to access her account  online 
for some two weeks,  which was both a worry and an inconvenience. And then not being able 
to contact TSB by phone exacerbated the situation. But as far as I can see Mrs T didnt 
suffer any direct  financial loss. Mrs T has said that she was initially  unable  to transfer money 
between accounts.  That problem was subsequently  resolved although Mrs T says one of the 
accounts remains open despite  her request that it be closed.
Mrs T has also complained that correspondence from TSB now uses  her full name. Before 
the computer  change TSB used only her initials and she wants  it to revert to that system. 
This would appear  to be a function of the new computer system and as such  Im afraid it is 
not a matter over which I have any jurisdiction. It is for TSB to determine  the computer 
system that it considers best meets  its needs  and this includes decisions about the form of 
address it uses in contacting its customers.
Mrs T has said she made numerous calls to TSB and made  long journeys to visit her nearest 
branch on many occasions. We asked her to provide us with any supporting evidence she 
had, but unfortunately she hasnt been able to do so. But her best estimate is that she 
phoned at least  10 times,  and made  5 branch visits totalling 140 miles. Mrs T hasnt said 
why she went to the branch, but I assume all visits were attempts to resolve  the problems 
she has set out in her complaint to us.
Having considered the full details of Mrs Ts complaint  my view is that £300 total 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My view is that 
that sum appropriately  compensates  Mrs T both for the inconvenience she has been caused 
by TSB and for the costs  she has incurred in trying to resolve  matters.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mrs T a total of 
£300. TSB Bank  Plc should reduce this sum by any amount it has already paid Mrs T in 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621140