K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wont  cover  the cost of her 
Caesarean section (C-section) under her private medical insurance policy.  
background
Mrs H has had two previous C-sections and a report from her consultant says she has some  
thinning of the uterus. She developed pelvic vein thrombosis during her current  pregnancy, 
for which shes been prescribed medication to prevent blood clots.  She told us this condition 
can lead to a pulmonary embolism,  so her consultant says she should have a C-section. 
AXA declined her claim on the basis it is preventative treatment.  
Mrs H says just because  its planned  doesnt mean it is preventative,  as she has to have it. 
Shes provided letters from her consultant outlining the reasons why he thinks  the C-section 
is necessary. AXA issued a final response  letter confirming that theyd declined the claim 
because it amounted to preventative treatment. So Mrs H made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt uphold  the complaint as, in 
summary; he thought  the evidence suggested  the treatment was preventative. Mrs H 
provided more information  from her consultant,  saying the procedure  was needed to treat 
the pelvic vein thrombosis. AXAs clinical  team reviewed this information and said it didnt 
change their thoughts  about the claim because  there was no cover  to prevent post-partum 
haemorrhage. And AXA highlighted that the consultant had referred to the risks of 
haemorrhage or uterine  rupture, rather than an existing condition. 
Having reviewed the comments and further  information our investigator issued a further  
opinion on the complaint.  He acknowledged  the consultant thought  a C-section was the best 
course of action for Mrs H. But he still didnt  think this fell within  the scope of her policy  
because it was a preventative  procedure to avoid the risk of a pulmonary embolism, rather  
than a condition  shed been diagnosed with or was being treated for. So he didnt uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. She says the policy  
covers treatment in pregnancy and the consultant has said this procedure is needed to treat 
her existing medical condition, pelvic vein thrombosis.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I say at the outset  that I have a great deal of empathy for Mrs Hs position. Its clear  that she 
is anxious to have her consultant present at the birth and has confidence that he can provide 
her with a standard of treatment she feels comfortable with. Thats entirely understandable 
and I can fully appreciate  why she feels  so strongly about AXAs decision to decline the 
claim. I can also understand why its been a source of worry and concern for her during the 
pregnancy. 
Ref: DRN75394412the relevant policy  terms and conditions
Mrs Hs policy doesnt cover routine pregnancy and childbirth.  The policy  terms and 
conditions say: 
As pregnancy and childbirth are not medical  conditions and because the NHS 
provides for them, our cover is limited. 
We dont cover the normal checks or other  interventions, such  as monitoring and 
screening which you will have during pregnancy and birth.  However, if you develop  a 
medical condition  while pregnant or giving birth we may cover  it
We will cover the additional costs for treatment of medical conditions  that arise  during 
pregnancy or childbirth. For example:
Ectopic pregnancy  (pregnancy where  the embryo or foetus grows outside the 
womb)
Hydatidiform mole  (abnormal cell growth in the womb)
Retained placenta (afterbirth retained in the womb)
Placenta praevia 
Eclampsia (a coma  or seizure  during pregnancy and following pre-eclampsia)
Diabetes 
Post-Partum Haemorrhage  (heavy bleeding in the hours and days 
immediately after childbirth) 
Miscarriage requiring  immediate surgical  treatment. 
The policy also doesnt cover preventative  treatment. It says:
Eligible treatment  is treatment of a disease,  illness or injury  where  that treatment
Is of an acute condition 
Is conventional  treatment 
Is not preventative 
And it goes  on to explain: 
Health insurance  is designed to cover  problems you are experiencing at the moment, 
so it generally doesnt cover preventative  treatment  or screening tests
We do not pay for: 
preventative treatment
routine preventative examinations  and check-ups .
has AXA declined the claim unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint because I dont think AXA have  treated  Mrs H unfairly. I 
say that because:
Ref: DRN75394413Its not in dispute that Mrs Hs consultant  says shes at risk of a post-partum 
haemorrhage or a pulmonary embolism. Mrs H hasnt  yet given birth,  so its not 
known if she will suffer from post-partum  haemorrhage or an embolism. Her policy 
may offer her some  cover if those scenarios arise. But I dont  think its unreasonable  
for AXA to conclude the C-section amounts to preventative treatment to avoid those 
risks, rather  than treatment for an existing  condition. Im not suggesting  its 
unreasonable for Mrs H to want a C-section,  or its unnecessary. But her policy  
simply doesnt offer cover in the circumstances; 
I can see in his most recent report the consultant says, in order  to treat the venous  
thrombosis we would require insertion of a caval umbrella under direct  vision  
following delivery of the infant by caesarean section, in order to minimise the risk of 
massive haemorrhage,  hysterectomy, and fatal pulmonary embolism . Whilst he does 
refer to treating  the venous thrombosis  this is linked to minimising the risks of the 
other conditions hes mentioned.  I also note this is consistent with the consultants  
original reports which focused on minimising risks involved in the birth rather  than 
treatment of an existing  condition.  So this information doesnt  change my thoughts  
about the outcome of Mrs Hs complaint; 
The policy makes it clear  that cover for pregnancy and childbirth is limited  and sets 
out a number of examples in which additional treatment may be covered. I note by 
the inclusion  of the word  may this isnt something that is guaranteed. And I can also 
see Mrs Hs situation  doesnt  fall within the scope of any of the examples provided in 
the policy. So this further persuades me that its not unreasonable  for AXA to reject 
the claim;
I do understand that Mrs H is anxious to have her consultant  present at the birth and 
feels he is better qualified to handle her birth than an NHS practitioner. I also 
appreciate she has trust and confidence  in him. However, taking into account the 
terms of the policy and the medical evidence, I dont think its unreasonable  for AXA 
to decline her claim in the circumstances.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7539441