K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tansar Holdings Ltd cancelled his motor  insurance policy without 
notice. He wants it to indemnify him for driving  whilst uninsured. Mr S is represented in this 
matter by his solicitor.
background
Mr S took out a policy with Tansar through a broker over the phone. He was told his 
documents would  be sent by email, but the address was incorrectly  recorded so he didnt 
receive these or the later cancellation emails. Mr S said he was found to be driving whilst 
uninsured and now faces court proceedings. 
Tansar paid Mr S £50 compensation for taking down his email  address incorrectly.  Tansar 
said Mr S was also sent the documents by post and it texted him before the policy cancelled. 
But Mr S said he didnt  receive these. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
email address had been taken down incorrectly but he thought the £50 compensation for this 
error was fair. And he thought Mr S had been  sent his policy  documents  and notice  of 
cancellation by email and post. And the final cancellation warning was also sent by text. He 
didnt think Tansar was responsible for Mr S not receiving any of these.
Mr S replied  that hed told Tansar that the only way to contact him was by email. He said itd 
agreed that itd made a mistake  and tried to reinstate  the policy.  He also said he wanted it to 
pay for a claim made following an accident  in his car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tansars agent said Mr Ss policy was cancelled because it didnt receive  all the requested 
documentation to validate his policy. It had asked for some of this in the sales call and 
emailed Mr S to request further documents. But these werent  all provided. 
I dont think its unusual  for an insurer to request further documents  to validate a policy. Ive 
seen copies of the Welcome  Pack  emailed  and posted to Mr S and later correspondence. I 
think these clearly requested certain documents and I cant see that Mr S provided all of 
these. 
In the sales call, the agent told Mr S that he would receive his Welcome pack by email, but 
Mr S didnt chase this up when it didnt arrive. Mr S later said hed used the broker before for 
his other  car and he understood  its procedures. I didnt hear Mr S say that he was only to be 
contacted by email.  
Tansar then instructed its agent  to start its seven day cancellation  process. Our service  
believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told 
that their policy has been cancelled  as this will have  serious consequences for them and 
expose them  to possible court action.
Ref: DRN72964852The agent  again emailed Mr S at the incorrect address.  But Ive seen evidence  that it also 
sent the Welcome  Pack, cancellation notice and cancellation confirmation by post. I can see 
that these were sent to the correct  postal address. It also sent Mr S a final warning by text to 
the mobile phone  number  hed provided. Tansars records show that the text was delivered.
So I think Tansar took reasonable  steps to warn  Mr S that his policy  would cancel and then 
confirmed this had been done.  I cant say why Mr S didnt  receive  the letters or the text sent 
to him. But I cant reasonably hold Tansar responsible for this as Ive seen evidence  that 
these were sent out. 
When Mr S found that he was uninsured  after receiving a letter,  he called the broker.  Ive 
listened to these calls which  I can see were provided to Mr S. The agent  told him the policy 
couldnt be reinstated. A manager  checked to see if the policy  could be reinstated, but 
Tansar didnt agree this. So I dont think any commitment was made to Mr S that the policy 
could be reinstated  due to the incorrect email  address. 
So I think Tansar gave Mr S reasonable notice to provide his documents or else the policy  
would cancel. I think it gave Mr S reasonable warning of the cancellation and notified him 
that this had been done. I think its offer of £50 compensation, by waiving its cancellation fee, 
was fair and reasonable compensation for taking his email address down incorrectly. Its 
what Id require in similar circumstances. So I dont think Tansar  needs  to do anything  further 
in response to Mr Ss complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7296485