K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997  when they took out their mortgage and in 2004  
when they took some  further borrowing.
background
The policies sold in 1997  and 2004 only covered Mr G. Mr and Mrs G paid a monthly amount 
for the policies. In the event of a successful claim, if Mr G became too ill to work  or became 
unemployed, the PPI would have covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  per 
claim.
Mr and Mrs G feel very strongly about their complaint. Mr and Mrs G say that with both the 
sale of the PPI in 1997 and 2004, they did not feel they had a choice and were pressured  by 
the in-branch sales adviser that they needed  to take PPI in order to get the lending.  
Mr and Mrs G say they were pressured into buying  it when they did not need  it. They  say 
Mr G held a good  stable job with good sickness cover, and Mrs G was also in employment 
and her earnings could  help meet  repayments. Mr and Mrs G also consider the fact that no 
claim has been made on the PPI policy shows it wasnt needed.  
Theres only limited information  available about  both sales  of PPI. 
None of the paperwork from the original  sale in 1997 is available. HSBC  couldnt confirm 
how the mortgage or PPI was sold. But HSBCs records  show  that Mr G had a PPI policy  that 
started in April 1997 that protected  Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage that was also taken in April 
1997. The policy cost £17.82 per month  and in the event of a successful claim it provided a 
monthly benefit of £300.
With the further borrowing in 2004 there  is a little more information available.  HSBC have 
provided an electronic mortgage application  record and the equity release loan agreement 
form. These show that the further  advance was taken in October 2004. The policy  cost 
£23.77 per month and in the event of a successful  claim it provided a monthly  benefit  of 
£400.
So in total,  from 2004, Mr and Mrs G were paying  a monthly amount of £41.59 which  
provided a monthly  benefit of £700.
Mr and Mrs G told us the mortgage and the PPI were arranged  during  a meeting in branch 
and it was the same process in 2004  when they took the further advance.
Ive taken all this information into account when  thinking about this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel there  was enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with our adjudicators view. As the matter  hasnt been resolved the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.   
Ref: DRN77919092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. That isnt surprising given the sales took place so long ago. That said,  Ive still 
reached a conclusion taking into account  the available evidence, knowledge and experience 
of these types of sales and whats  fair to both parties.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know how HSBC  would have presented PPI to Mr and Mrs G or explained  it to them  
during any discussions. As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale of each PPI 
policy, I cant say for sure that Mr and Mrs G were told they had the option of refusing PPI, or 
that they agreed for it to be added.  Equally, theres nothing  to show  the PPI wasnt 
presented to them as optional  or that they didnt choose to go ahead with it. 
I dont expect HSBC  to keep records indefinitely. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr and Mrs G to remember exactly what,  if anything,  they were told when they took out PPI 
as the sales happened so long ago. I dont think it is fair to solely rely on what Mr and Mrs G 
say happened. Memories  can, and do, fade naturally over time. I have to look at everything 
and decide what  I think is most likely. 
For example, Mr and Mrs G say that with both the sale of the PPI in 1997 and 2004, they did 
not feel they had a choice  and were pressured  by the in-branch sales  adviser that they 
needed to take PPI in order to get the mortgage and further borrowing. But its just as likely 
Mr and Mrs G were told they should consider taking out the PPI, rather than they had to.
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint Id have to find that its likely they werent  given 
a fair choice about PPI. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs G not to choose  PPI if they didnt want to have it. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a number of years.  Their  
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  So, I can see 
why Mr and Mrs G mightve felt PPI was useful  to have. On balance, I think its more likely 
that Mr and Mrs G decided  they wanted  to have the benefits  the policy could offer and it was 
added when they decided  to buy the policy covering Mr G. 
As such,  I dont uphold  the complaint on this basis.
As I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI its not clear whether HSBC mightve 
advised Mr and Mrs G to take out the policy for Mr G, so whether it needed  to check if the 
policy was suitable  for him. But I dont need to make a decision about  this because it doesnt  
look like PPI was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN77919093Mr G was eligible for the PPI policy and met the requirements to have the cover.  
Mr G has told us he wouldve received generous  sick pay from his employer that he could 
use to meet  the repayments if he couldnt work.  Mr G also says that Mrs G was earning and 
her income could be used  to meet  repayments  also. Ive thought carefully about everything 
Mr and Mrs G told us. But Im not persuaded that Mr G couldnt  have benefitted  from the PPI 
if hed needed  to claim or that his circumstances  meant he didnt need  it. Heres why I say 
this.
Mr G was entitled to six months  full sick pay followed by six months  half pay. The policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay for up to 12 months per claim.  As hed have  
been on half pay only after 6 months off work, I think that couldve been a useful benefit  at a 
difficult time  especially  if he faced extra costs as a result of being ill or disabled.  And if 
Mr G was made unemployed,  he could have potentially claimed for up to 12 months  under 
the policy also.
While I appreciate Mrs G was working  at the time, her circumstances could have changed 
and she might not have  been able to help when  needed. I also note that Mr and Mrs G didnt 
hold any other insurance policies  or have any other savings that they could have used to 
meet their repayments.  Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs G had the peace of mind  that if 
anything unfortunate  was to happen meaning Mr G was unable  to work for a lengthy period 
or if he lost his job, their mortgage repayments were  covered.
So, looking  at Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs G have also said that they never claimed under the policy   and this shows they 
didnt need it. But insurance is there to protect  against the unforeseen. There was no way of 
knowing in 1997,  and again in 2004,  what could happen to their circumstances. Just 
because Mr and Mrs G didnt claim under the policy, doesnt automatically mean it wasnt 
right for them or had been mis-sold. And in the same way, just because  a consumer claims 
successfully under the PPI doesnt  mean the policy cant have been mis-sold. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr G. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Gs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs G when they bought the policy. 
But, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that they couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. 
Mr and Mrs G say that them being able to afford the premiums doesnt mean the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs G are right in saying  that. I would like to clarify  why I think  about  the 
cost of the PPI alongside the benefits  it provides. In assessing whether a consumer would 
have taken out PPI, I need to consider that if the consumer genuinely couldnt afford it  then 
despite the protection the PPI offered, a consumers decision may well have been to not take 
PPI because of their short term financial needs.  But as Ive said above, there is nothing to 
make me think Mr and Mrs G couldnt  afford the policy.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt give Mr and Mrs G clear information about  all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think its likely  that Mr and Mrs G chose to take out the policies and I can see why 
they mightve thought it could be useful. Taking all their circumstances  into account, even if 
there were failings in the way HSBC sold him the policy, I dont think that better information 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs G off having  it. 
Ref: DRN77919094I have carefully considered what Mr and Mrs G have  said,  including what they have said 
about the sale and what they have said in response  tour adjudicators findings. But for the 
reasons given above, these points dont change my decision.
All things  considered, based on the available information I have regarding the sales, the PPI 
policies and Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, I dont  think the PPI policies were  mis-sold.
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies to 
Mr and Mrs G.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because  in 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some  
new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI. 
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
HSBC, in light of the FCAs  rules  and guidance,  looked at Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy.  HSBC 
said that the level of commission  and profit share it received did create an unfair relationship. 
So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr and Mrs G paid each month  for the 
time the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Its 
offer also includes 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs G for any time 
they were out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs G say the fact that HSBC  did not make the commission  they earned  from the 
sale clear supports the fact that the PPI policies were mis-sold. But in this case,  HSBC  has 
made Mr and Mrs G an offer of compensation in relation to the level of commission it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.
So HSBC  has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Gs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means HSBC  should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling HSBC  to do anything more.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN77919095HSBC has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so it doesnt need to do anything further.  
I also understand Mr and Mrs Gs PPI policy is still live. It is up to Mr and Mrs G as to 
whether or not they wish to continue with the PPI in light of everything  said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before28  April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7791909