K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Rs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Rs application  for the credit  card.  It includes a section  on 
Credit Care (a form of PPI).  It says Bank of Scotland strongly recommends the cover, 
and theres a box to sign if the applicant wishes to take it. Mrs R signed the box. I think  it 
would have  been clear from the form that the PPI was optional.  And I think  Mrs R chose  
to take it  although I can understand why she may no longer remember  this, so many 
years later.
Mrs R told us she cant remember how she took out the PPI. But Im satisfied from the 
evidence provided  that she applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think its 
unlikely that she had any direct contact with Bank  of Scotlands staff during the 
application process. And I dont its likely that Bank of Scotland made a personal 
recommendation to Mrs R about  the PPI. This means  it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. But it did have a responsibility to ensure  that it gave Mrs R enough 
information to decide for herself  whether she wished to take the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. But Mrs R chose to take out the policy.  So she appears to have  
wanted this type of cover,  even if shes understandably  forgotten that now. Ive borne in 
mind that Mrs Rs told us shed have been entitled to relatively generous sick pay from 
her employer.  But from what  we know of similar policies  being  sold at the time, its likely 
the policy  would  have helped with Mrs Rs monthly  credit  card repayments for at least 
12 months  per successful claim. So it would potentially  have paid out for longer than 
Mrs Rs told us shed have been entitled  to full sick pay for. 
Whats more,  the policy would have  paid out in addition  to any sick pay or redundancy 
pay Mrs R received  from her employer. So she could  have used any payments from her 
employer to meet other day-to-day  expenses. Taking  everything into account, I think the 
policy could have  been useful to Mrs R- especially as shes  told us that aside from her 
employee benefits, she didnt have any other means she could have used to make  her 
monthly credit card repayments if shed been  off sick, or if shed lost her job.
Ref: DRN74504682Based on what shes told us about her circumstances when she took out the policy, 
Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the main  things it didnt  cover  (for example, provisions 
about unusual  employment arrangements, or existing medical  conditions).  And the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So taking  everything into account, I think its unlikely Mrs R would have made  a different 
decision even  if better  information  had been  provided.  On balance I think  shed  still have 
taken out the policy.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about  that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450468