K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Cash On Go Limited, trading as Peachy, lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr R is represented by a third party.
background 
Using information from Peachys records it has sent to us here is a brief summary table of 
Mr Rs approved loans.  The system  in place with Peachy seems to be that a Running 
Account Credit agreement  is entered into with a ceiling limit set. In Mr Rs case that was 
£700 on 17 April 2015. One term is: Further requests for advances  will not be considered  by 
Us until any outstanding  advances, including interest and charges, have been repaid in full 
and will be governed  by a separate agreement.
I do not have any other  copies of any earlier Running Account agreements. I do have copies 
of the individual draw-down agreements which are dated to dovetail  with the loan numbers 
in the table above. These are labelled  by Peachy as Loan Statements. Those individual 
agreements set out the loan repayment  schedules. 
Peachy has informed us that there  are arrears on the account for Loan 5, the balance 
outstanding earlier this year was over £925  and a third party  has ownership of it now. 
Loan
(drawdown)Approved Amount Agreement
(rounded figures)Repaid date
1 22 March 2014 £100 19 days 10 April 2014
2 16 June 2014 £250 147 days
5 instalments the highest 
due to be £11010 November 
2014
3 10 November 
2014£300 151 days
5 instalments - highest 
due to be £155Due to be repaid  
10 April 2015 
(deferred once see 
3A below)
3A 10 February 
2015£180 87 days
3 instalments highest  
due to be £93Due 8 May 2015 
and repaid
15 April 2015
4 17 April 2015 £200 £299  originally 10 
instalments and repaid  
early8 May 2015
5 8 May 2015 £500 368 days
12 instalments highest 
due to be £147outstanding
Mr R has articulated  his feelings about  these  loans and has asked on his complaint form, 
and in emails to us since we took on the complaint,  that he gets the following:
Refund of interest  & charges with 8% Interest.
Removal of adverse history from credit report.
Compensation for damage to credit report as a result of irresponsible  lending.
Peachys final response letter indicated concern at Mr Rs situation but it did not think that 
the complaint  was one it could uphold. 
Ref: DRN71354502One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Peachy should put things 
right for Mr R in relation to Loans 4 and 5. 
Peachy agreed  and conceded on Loans 4 and 5. It calculated redress  in line with our 
adjudicators opinion letter, which included the set-off for the unpaid Loan 5. Mr R did not 
accept this. So, the complaint remains unresolved  and has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
Peachy has conceded on Loans 4 and 5 and so these are undisputed and there is little 
reason for me to review  them.  But as Mr R is unhappy overall then I have  reviewed the first 
four loans (Loan 3A being a refinancing  of Loan 3 effectively). 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I do not think that this point  was 
reached in Mr Rs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the regulator at the time defined sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
Ref: DRN71354503and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator that proportionate  checks carried  out by Peachy for Loans 1 to 
3A appear to have been done and as such I agree that these are not lending decisions  that 
Id expect Peachy  to correct. I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint  for Loans 1 to 3A. 
Loans 4 and 5 have  been accepted as being  ones  that it needs to put things right for Mr R 
and so I say no more about them other than endorsing  the uphold  for Loans 4 and 5 and 
addressing the concern Mr R has raised  on the redress. 
the redress 
This has been set out very carefully by our adjudicator in her view and I agree with it. I have 
set it out here again for the avoidance of doubt  for Loans 4 and 5. I say to Mr R that the 
accounts show that Loans 4 and 5 added up to be £700 of principal sums which,  having  had 
the benefit of those  funds, need  to be repaid.  I do not consider it fair to Peachy that these 
principal sums are written  off. I appreciate that is what Mr R would  like to happen, but it is 
not our usual approach, I cannot see any reason to depart  from our usual approach  and I do 
not direct  that this happens in Mr Rs case.  
I appreciate that debt can be a very upsetting and troubling issue to deal with, but it seems  
from Mr Rs explanations that he may have had other reasons to be troubled by debt not just 
these loans approved by Peachy, and as such I do not feel it fair to award anything 
additional. 
The recompense that Mr R seeks is built into the redress calculations  with the 8% annual 
simple interest on any surplus Mr R may have paid to Peachy. But Loan  4 was repaid quickly 
and so the loan interest  paid to Peachy was not a large sum and therefore the redress 
interest on it is not high.  And Loan 5 is outstanding  to a large degree.  The sums repaid to the 
third party will be put towards  the reduction  of the sum owed. And it is right and fair that any 
redress due from this complaint is set-off against  the amount that Mr R owes  to Peachy. 
Effectively the calculation  of redress on the two loans which Peachy has accepted it needs 
to do something about reduces Mr Rs outstanding balance  for Loan 5.  And effectively 
means the loans  will have been  interest-free. I think that this is fair. 
In relation to Mr Rs credit file, Peachy is being  asked by us to amend  the payment 
information on his credit file for Loans  4 and 5. I do not think  it fair to ask it to do more.
Any payment arrangement that Mr R has come to with his own representative is a matter  for 
him and it is not part of this complaint.  
putting things right - what  Peachy  needs  to do
Ref: DRN71354504If Peachy  has sold the outstanding debts Peachy should buy these back  if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. 
If Peachy  is not able to buy the debts  back then Peachy should liaise  with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
A)Peachy should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr R towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans  without an outstanding balance,  (Loan 4 for Mr R) not 
including anything Peachy has already refunded.
B)Peachy should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr R 
which were considered  as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Peachy should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans  (Lona 5 for Mr R), and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though 
they had been  repayments  of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr R 
having made overpayments  then Peachy should  refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments  would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is s mounts calculated  in A and B and move  to 
step E.
D)If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans.  If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr R. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  then 
Peachy should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
E)Peachy should remove any adverse payment information Peachy has recorded on Mr Rs 
credit file in relation to loans 4 to 5. If Peachy has sold any of the loans Peachy should ask 
the debt purchaser  to do the same. Peachy does not have to remove  any outstanding loans 
from Mr Rs credit  file until these  have been repaid, but Peachy should still remove any 
adverse payment information  recorded  about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that think that I uphold Mr Rs complaint  in part and Cash on Go Limited,  
trading as Peachy, should do as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135450