K822xcomplaint
Miss C has complained about her home insurer  Fairmead  Insurance  Limited as she feels it 
handled her water leak claim poorly,  the repairs for which are still outstanding.
background 
Miss C called Fairmead on 4 January 2019  as shed noticed water  damage at her home. It 
transpired the tank in the loft was leaking. This was repaired and Fairmead accepted a claim 
for the water damage. 
Fairmead sent a surveyor to the property on 7 January 2019,  and a drying company 
attended on 15 January 2019. The drying  company noticed damage not identified by the 
surveyor. This included  that the wall between the lounge and the kitchen was wet and that 
the lounge flooring needed replacing.  Later Miss C found damage to the kitchen floor, just on 
the other side of the wall from the lounge. Fairmead said it felt this was unrelated  and would 
be subject of a second claim. 
Fairmead said though  that it accepted the kitchen ceiling was damaged during the original  
leak and would pay for this repair. Sometimes  the payment  for this was referred to by 
Fairmead as for reinstating the ceiling and walls  at other times it only accepted the ceiling 
was damaged. Whilst Fairmead  accepted  that reinstatement of two bedrooms,  the landing  
and the lounge was required under the policy it halted all works whilst  it tried to resolve the 
kitchen issue with Miss C. In May 2019  Fairmead said it accepted  it could have done some  
things better  so it would  pay Miss C £100  compensation.  Miss C complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Fairmeads scope for repair was out of date, so she said it should 
complete a new one. She said it should  pay £250 compensation. Fairmead agreed. Miss C 
did not. 
Miss C felt Fairmead had let her down already and she didnt trust its contractors to repair 
her home. She obtained estimates for repair ranging from around £9,000 to £15,000. But 
she explained that whilst Fairmead had sent her an initial scope, shed never  been  satisfied 
by that and Fairmead had never  answered  her concerns about it. So she accepted that her 
estimates may not reflect  the work Fairmead had agreed to (although the extent  of what that 
was remained unclear).  The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made.
I felt Fairmead had failed  Miss C  it hadnt  handled her claim well and that had meant it 
wasnt particularly clear  what  damage  was identified and accepted by it as being related to 
the original water leak. I issued a provisional decision explaining what I felt was needed to 
resolve this situation.
Miss C said she was pleased by my decision, but added some  comments for consideration. 
Fairmead said it had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
Ref: DRN79871102kitchen floor and wall
Fairmeads drying contractor found  the wall between the kitchen and lounge  was wet, and 
that the lounge flooring was too. Ive no reason to doubt this finding and I note that 
Fairmeads surveyor didnt re-attend  at that time to verify this additional  damage  which  he 
hadnt identified  in his visit the week before.  And no-one, at this time, seems to have thought 
to check the situation in the kitchen. Whilst in April the kitchen side of the wall was found to 
be dry, this was two months after the drying  contractor said the property was dry. It doesnt 
persuade me this wall wasnt initially wet or that the damage to the kitchen flooring is 
unrelated. In saying  that, I bear in mind its not unusual for water  to track across a 
floor/under flooring. And I note that Fairmeads  surveyor initially felt it was likely the kitchen 
damage was linked  that isnt the conclusion noted  in the report,  but I see that the report  
was only written several months  after the visit. And it gives  no reasoning  which might 
persuade the reader  as to why the two areas of damage arent  likely  from the same  cause. 
Im going  to require  Fairmead to accept the damage  to the kitchen floor and it will need  to 
re-assess whether the plaster on both sides of the adjoining wall needs remediating.
reinstatement of the property
This has been outstanding for too long  there was absolutely no reason why Fairmead  
couldnt have  continued with the repairs whilst the issue of the kitchen was being  debated.  
Fairmead will now have to reassess what is needed  to reinstate the property. It will have to 
take into account that it must make  good the kitchen flooring, determining what  is needed  to 
do that. It will also have to revise  its scope to include the wallpapering in the bedroom and 
lounge which are not included in its original  scope  and make sure any current scope is 
accurate. I say the latter not least because its initial scope allowed for removal  of radiators  
but Miss Cs property doesnt  have any. I think Fairmead should have a loss adjuster,  
surveyor or similar organise  the review  and they will need to manage things as the claim 
continues  what Ive seen to date is that there was no management and the drying,  scoping 
and planned  reinstatement was completely  disjointed. I dont think Fairmeads  reinstatement 
contractors have acted  so badly on this occasion that I could reasonably  say it should move 
to using a contractor chosen by Miss C, and Miss C accepts  that her estimates  so far arent 
necessarily accurate. But I think its clear that relations have broken down between Miss C 
and Fairmeads original contractor  so, and in the interest of moving things on, I think it is 
fair to say Fairmead  should use another contractor.  
Whilst Miss C believes loft insulation needs replacing, I note Fairmeads drying  contractor 
said this was dry/not water damaged. Im not going  to require Fairmead to replace the 
insulation. But if Miss C has evidence  its damaged  and in need of replacing, Fairmead 
should consider  that.
Miss C said Fairmead is still to settle her contents  claim, which  she said totalled  £120. 
Regarding the building reinstatement claim, she said Fairmead  had let her down so badly 
she cant trust it to complete the work. She asked that I make it pay the lowest of the 
estimates she obtained to allow her to organise repairs. 
I asked Fairmead about the contents claim. It said it was happy to settle  this at the £120 
requested by Miss C. For completeness  Ill add that to my award. 
I asked Fairmead if it was willing to settle  the building reinstatement  claim based  on the 
lowest estimate Miss C had obtained  (around £9,000).  It said it was prepared  to make a 
Ref: DRN79871103cash settlement, but before it could agree to pay based on this particular estimate, it would 
have to consider  the breakdown of work contained.  
I appreciate how Miss C feels about  Fairmead.  But as I said provisionally, I dont think it 
acted so poorly that I can reasonably move  to making it cash  settle  the claim based on her 
estimate. But I do think its reasonable, where it continues to reinstate the property, to 
require it to use different  contractors than before and to use a loss adjuster or similar to 
manage the claim. This should give Miss C some much needed  reassurance  that things  will 
be better this time. 
Im also mindful that whilst Miss C has referred to the lowest  of her estimates there is no way 
to know that even that is reflective of the insured work needed to reinstate  the property.  
I can understand why Fairmead isnt inclined to just agree to settling at that cost. In short,  
Fairmeads initial scopes  were inaccurate, Ive found  it is liable  for work it had previously 
declined and Miss C has confirmed her estimate  is not based  on agreed insured work.  So it 
would be remiss of me to make an award against Fairmead which  required it to pay that 
sum. Simply  put I might  be requiring it to pay for work it isnt liable  for and/or Miss C might 
end up out of pocket. But if Miss C still wants to pursue a cash settlement, Fairmead  has 
indicated its minded to consider that option. Ill amend my award to reflect  this.
My provisional findings continued: 
storage and alternative accommodation
I think its also clear  that Miss C has some  poor health. The work in her property is quite 
extensive, the damage affecting every room,  except the bathroom. I think its fair to say that 
Fairmead should arrange to store her belongings for the duration  of the work and organise or 
pay for alternative accommodation  for Miss C.  I dont  think  she can reasonably be expected 
to remain in the property during the repairs. 
Miss C said that she wants accommodation to include her dog, rather than sending him to 
kennels. Thats not an unreasonable request and it isnt unusual for an insurer to provide 
alternative accommodation to include pets. I see no reason not to ask Fairmead  to do this 
here. But it can make finding  suitable  accommodation more  difficult; this may mean that 
Miss C will have to assist  Fairmead in finding  somewhere  suitable and/or that compromises  
on other key aspects of the accommodation  may need to be made.  For example, pet friendly 
accommodation may only be available further from the home than other non-pet  friendly  
options. I dont  know this will be the case for Miss C and Fairmead  but I mention it here 
with a view to trying to avoid and/or ease any future disagreements that might otherwise 
prevent this long-running and much  overdue claim from concluding.
I went on in my provisional findings  to consider compensation:
compensation
I can see this has been upsetting for Miss C. And I know she had some  health issues  which 
have made  dealing with this harder  for her. But I must bear in mind  that the dispute and 
Fairmeads final answer on it, all occurred within a few months  of the initial  claim. And the 
unresolved damage  didnt  make the home uninhabitable. I think  Fairmead  should  pay a total 
of £250 compensation.
   
Ref: DRN79871104Miss C made no specific comment about  my compensation award. But in the course of her 
reply regarding the building reinstatement  she explained how she felt Fairmead had treated 
her during  this claim and the stress shed felt dealing with it. I acknowledge Miss Cs 
comments in this respect. But Im not minded to change my compensation award.  
summary
Ive considered Miss Cs comments  made in reply.  But they havent given me cause to 
markedly change the outcome of this complaint. I have amended my redress  slightly to take 
account of the contents settlement requested  and agreed, as well as Fairmeads offer to 
consider settling in cash. But my view on the complaint largely remains  as that provisionally  
stated. As such my provisional findings, as updated by my final findings, set out above, form 
the findings of this my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss C £120  to settle  the contents  claim for replacement curtains and cleaning a 
rug.
Accept the kitchen  flooring needs  reinstating as part of this claim.
Re-assess the work, determining what is needed  to reinstate the kitchen,  including the 
flooring and the adjoining lounge wall, to create an accurate  scope of works which 
includes wallpapering.
If Miss C provides any evidence to show it is wet/water damaged, consider replacing the 
loft insulation.
Manage that reinstatement  work,  with Miss Cs belongings being placed into storage, 
alternative accommodation for Miss C and her dog being provided/paid  for and using  a 
different contractor. But if Miss C wishes to settle for the reinstatement  and/or  storage 
and/or alternative  accommodation costs in cash,  tell her what  work is agreed and what it 
is prepared to pay her in settlement for that work. And if required, what  costs it will cover 
for storage  and accommodation. 
Pay Miss C £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7987110