K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the remedial works carried out by Legal & General Insurance Limited  
(L&G) when  she made a claim  on her buildings insurance policy following a leak.
background
In 2018, Ms S made a claim  on her policy after noticing an escape  of water which caused 
damage to the downstairs bathroom.  L&G approved  the repairs which could only be carried 
out once the water damaged areas were dried. To do this it meant Ms Ss home  would be 
inhabitable, so L&G provided  her with alternative accommodation.
Once the contractors  were satisfied the areas were dry, repairs were carried  out. Ms S didnt 
think the area was dry when she visited the property while the works  were going on. She 
contacted L&G who provided her with a report to say the affected areas were dry and that no 
damp was detected. Ms S still wasnt happy  so L&G agreed she could get her own 
independent survey,  and if the results  showed  there was still damp,  they would reinvestigate  
this.
The independent report Ms S got, showed  there  wasnt any damp. The contactor was only 
able to asses this through  a small access area, as the repairs  had already been completed.  
Ms S wasnt satisfied they were able to provide  a detailed  enough  report, and that the one 
investigation was inclusive due to the limitations of the inspection.
L&G were  satisfied Ms S home was habitable  once the repairs were completed and advised  
her to move back to the property. Ms S says there was still damp in the property and was 
unhappy L&G wouldnt  continue to provide alternative accommodation until the matter was 
resolved to her satisfaction.
Ms S bought the complaint to our service for an impartial review. Our investigator agreed  
with L&G.  After looking at the evidence provided, there wasnt any damp  detected, the 
remedial works had been completed and the property dry. So L&G didnt need to continue 
providing further alternative accommodation for Ms S. As Ms S didnt agree with the 
investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear the circumstances have caused Ms S considerable anxiety. But I must  decide if 
theres enough evidence to show the repairs have been done properly by L&G,  and Ms S 
property restored to the condition  it was before the claim. From  the evidence  Ive seen, Im 
satisfied L&G have  done enough  to show  theyve completed the works correctly,  so Im not 
upholding Ms S complaint. I know Ms S will be disappointed with my decision,  but Ill explain 
why I dont think L&G need to do anymore.
The main  issue Ms S remains unhappy  with is that she feels the affected area, the bathroom  
hasnt been dried  out properly. Ive looked at the various reports from the loss adjuster, the 
contracted repairers and the independent  surveyors Ms S instructed to complete a survey.
Ref: DRN79495852The loss adjusters original report says, there are minor drying issues  with this claim and 
they do not envisage the need for a drying  company  to be appointed on this occasion Once 
defective areas are removed we would recommend affected joists are treated  with 
antifungicidal solution and allowed to dry naturally  before reinstatement commences.
Ms S was provided with alternative accommodation by L&G while  the drying was being  
done. Ms S visited the property during that time and inspected the joists.  Ms S says the 
joists were still damp. The contractors appointed to complete  the works completed  their own 
damp inspection. The report confirms the following:
Issue 1 Bathroom floor is a wooden suspended floor above compacted earth
Issue 2 Test shows no damp in and around  the exposed  area
Issue 3 As above
Issue 4 A reading of 0.8 is dry the timbers and floor boards show under 0.8 are dry
Issue 5 The ground also shows under 0.8 and is dry
Issue 6 The bathroom walls were also dry
Issue 7 As above.
Ms S wasnt happy with this report,  so L&G agreed  she could arrange to get her own 
inspection report.  L&G said if this report indicated the area was still damp, they would 
complete further  investigation. L&G also agreed that while  she was getting the report, theyd 
extended the time she was in the alternative accommodation.
While Ms S was getting her own in dependent surveyors, the contactors completed the 
repair works, including relaying the bathroom floor. This meant  that when Ms S surveyors 
came to complete  their damp  inspection,  they only had limited  access.  Ms S surveyors 
report concludes:
In our professional  opinion we do not consider that any further  remedial action, treatment or 
preparation works are necessary at the present time. The structural timbers, elements and 
flooring within  the ground floor bathroom are considered to be reasonably sound and 
satisfactory overall condition to the type and age, and there was no apparent  evident  of 
significant decay,  deterioration, inadequacy, failure or contamination by hygroscopic  salts.
From reading the full report, even with the limited  access  they had to complete their 
assessment, Ms S surveyors were satisfied that no more repairs were needed. But Ms S 
says It cannot be concluded that the area is dry as this would require a full report  beyond 
the preliminary report provided by. 
Overall, based on the available  evidence,  I cant fairly conclude  that the affected area is still 
damp as Ms S suggests. I cant fairly ignore the expert evidence available  the surveyors 
reports  because that wouldnt be reasonable. In the absence of any expert evidence to 
support Ms S comments, Im unable to reasonably agree that this complaint should  be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN79495853my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Helen Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7949585