K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the amount  of compensation she has received for two mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies taken out alongside two loans with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS).
background
Mrs C took out two loans  with RBS and with each loan she bought  a PPI policy.  The cost of 
the policy was added  to the loan in each case so interest was paid on the amount borrowed  
for the PPI. Mrs C later complained to RBS the PPI had been mis-sold. At first RBS said it 
couldnt find any PPI was sold with the loans. However it later said it had found the PPI and 
agreed it was mis-sold.
RBS offered compensation for both PPI policies  and Mrs C signed  to accept the offers in 
December 2018.  RBS also in December 2018  made  an offer of £50 in vouchers for failing to 
identify all accounts initially. Following  further  contact by Mrs C it paid an additional offer of 
£100 for distress  and inconvenience for delays that had occurred. 
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service  in 2019 about the compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  she had been put through in pursuing her complaint about the mis-sale of 
PPI with RBS. Mrs C wanted additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
We informed her we could not look at complaints purely about complaint handling, we could 
only look at distress and inconvenience payments when brought  as ancillary  to a regulated 
activity, such as the mis-sale.
Mrs C then said she wanted this service to look at how RBS had calculated the 
compensation as she wasnt  sure it was correct. She had to first take this up with RBS and 
after she received  its response,  she said she still wanted us to look at the calculations but 
also still consider the additional compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator said what RBS had offered in compensation for the mis-sold  policies  was fair 
and also that the compensation paid for the distress and inconvenience was fair.
The consumer was still unhappy with the compensation paid for the distress and 
inconvenience and asked for an ombudsman  to look at her complaint. The consumer is 
represented by a third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed the PPI was mis-sold and offered compensation to settle the complaint.  
Mrs C signed to accept  the offers on both loans  in December 2018. However, she brought a 
complaint to this service  in February 2019  which stated it was purely about the way her 
complaint about  the PPI mis-sale had been handled  by RBS. RBS had paid some  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its complaint handling, but 
Mrs C wanted substantially more.   
Ref: DRN71494052We explained to Mrs C in March 2019 that we could not look at complaints  purely about 
complaint handling as it did not fall within our permitted  jurisdiction,  complaint  handling  not 
being a regulated activity. 
Mrs C came back to us in April 2019 and said she wanted us to look into the calculations 
undertaken by RBS for the mis-sold  PPI with her loans and in addition to consider what  RBS 
had paid for distress  and inconvenience. Mrs C first needed to raise her concerns about the 
calculations with RBS which  she did. 
When Mrs C went back to RBS it provided some more information about the figures used to 
work out the compensation due. Mrs C then came back to this service in August 2019  with a 
complaint that she still wanted us to consider the redress amounts paid but also that she 
wanted us to consider the amount given for distress and inconvenience. 
redress amount
The purpose of redress compensation  is to put a consumer as far as possible in the position 
they would  have been in had they not taken out the PPI. That means  refunding all the costs 
paid for the PPI plus some compensatory interest for any times a consumer was out of 
pocket. 
I have looked  at the figures and calculations provided  by RBS. I can see that Mrs C 
borrowed extra on her first loan for the costs of the PPI. She then settled her first loan early.  
So on settlement she got a partial  rebate of the premium added to the loan for the PPI. RBS 
has worked out how much Mrs C paid in repayments when the loan was active  and also the 
amount that remained in the balance repaid after the rebate for the PPI had been removed. 
These amounts  are for both the PPI premium and for any interest caused and paid by Mr C 
because of the PPI being  part of the loan.
I think RBS has worked  out the costs of the PPI fairly. It has also worked  out some 
compensatory interest  for the period Mrs C was out of pocket for all the payments she made  
for the PPI with this loan. In total it offered £ 750.55 after tax. I think this is fair compensation 
for this policy mis-sold  with this loan.
Looking at the second loan with PPI, RBS has confirmed this loan ran to its full term. So the 
full premium added to the loan and all interest caused by that have been taken as the 
redress to be repaid. Again compensatory interest  for the periods Mrs C was out of pocket 
have also been  calculated. The total for this PPI mis-sale  came  to £7,544.15 after tax. Again 
I think this is fair compensation for the mis-sold PPI with this loan.
So I am satisfied that the calculations carried out by RBS clearly  refund to Mrs C all the 
costs she paid for the PPI and also compensatory interest is included as appropriate for the 
times she was out of pocket.
Ref: DRN71494053award for distress and inconvenience
Turning to the issue of additional compensation for distress and inconvenience, I cannot  see 
in dealing with Mrs Cs complaint about the calculations of the compensation RBS has done  
anything wrong, and no additional  compensation is due in relation to this.
RBS had also agreed that there  had been  some problems in the way it had handled the 
complaint about  the mis-sale when it was first taken  raised by Mrs C and it has paid a total of 
£150 by cheque and vouchers for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mrs C. 
When Mrs C first came to this service her complaint  form and covering letter  were  clear that 
she was seeking  only additional compensation for delay,  stress and inconvenience in the 
way RBS had dealt with her complaint.  It was explained to Mrs C we could not look at 
complaints purely  about complaint handling.
In submitting the complaint to this service relating to the redress  calculations, after receiving 
a response from RBS, the correspondence from Mrs Cs representative  indicates  redress 
was probably properly calculated  and then goes on at length  to talk about  why additional 
compensation should be paid for distress  and inconvenience. But this additional 
compensation relates solely  to the issues raised  previously about  the mis-sale  complaint 
handling, after Mrs C had signed to accept the offers made  in full and final settlement.
I have considered the redress  calculations above  and found  that the amounts paid are fair. 
As our adjudicator informally addressed  the issue of additional compensation, and the 
business has raised no objection to consideration of this, I shall make some  comment on 
this. However, I would state  that this service  should  not consider complaints purely about 
complaint handling.
RBS paid in January 2019 a cheque for £100 to Mrs C for the complaint handling issues  
relating to delay  when  considering the mis-sale  aspects she complained about. It had also 
given her a £50 shopping voucher for problems caused by human error in identifying all the 
accounts. 
Mrs Cs representative is arguing  that the additional compensation for distress and 
inconvenience should be £1,000 and also the costs  Mrs C has been  charged by her 
representative to bring  this complaint  should  also be paid by RBS.
A consumer  does not have to be represented to bring a complaint to this service.  Mrs C 
could have brought her complaint direct to this service at any point if she had remained 
unhappy with RBS responses to her before she instructed her current  representative. She 
did not choose to do so. If she is unhappy with the amount she is now paying  to her 
representative that is a matter  between them. I can see nothing  exceptional  in this case 
which would lead me to believe there is any justification in awarding Mrs Cs representatives  
costs.
With regard to the complaint about  how RBS denied any mis-sale of PPI and its complaint 
handling in relation to this, RBS has acknowledged there may have been an error and some 
delays caused  in getting this matter resolved. So it has in total given Mrs C £150  additional  
compensation. 
Ref: DRN71494054Mrs C has also received  8% simple interest for the period she was out of pocket which was 
to the date of final payment of all the compensation. So even though  she may have been out 
of pocket longer,  she has been compensated for this.
I think what RBS has offered in additional compensation is fair and so I am not intending to 
ask it to do anything  more.
I have noted all the comments made by Mrs C and her representative about another case 
with RBS. When a complaint is brought to this service we look at each case  individually  
based on the evidence presented. What has happened in any other  cases for other 
consumers or with other businesses is not relevant to the individual  case  we are looking at. 
My decision  about Mr Cs complaint is based on the specific circumstances raised  and the 
evidence presented relating to the PPI with her loans and the compensation she was 
offered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I think that the Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has 
calculated and paid fair compensation to Mrs C and I am not directing it to pay anything  
more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7149405