K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a sofa he financed  through Temple Finance Limited (Temple), trading 
as Perfect Home, was not of satisfactory  quality.
Background
In July 2017, Mr G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Temple  Finance for a 
refurbished  two and three- seater sofa.
In November 2017, Mr G contacted Temple as he thought the frame under  the sofa 
was damaged.  Temple asked an independent  company, EcoMaster,  to inspect the 
sofa. They called on 20 December 2017  but were unable to gain access  to the 
property.
In January 2018, they called again.  On inspection of the sofa, they found there to be 
a manufacturing  fault, and the sofa needed some repairs. The report  found  that 
the fabric had an uneven  finish  and it needed unpicking  and refitting.  The repairs  
were carried  out. They  confirmed  Mr G was happy  with the repairs.
In February 2018,  Mr G contacted Temple again  to complain  his cushions were  sagging. 
Temple says they tried to contact Mr G to discuss this further but were unable to reach  him.
In March 2018, Mr G contacted Temple  again about  the sofa cushions. Temple says they 
tried again  to contact  Mr G to arrange an inspection but were unable to so do so.
In August  2018,  Mr G contacted Temple again  about the sofa cushions  and staples  sticking  
out of the sofa. On this occasion Temple were successful in contacting  and arranging  an 
inspection with Mr G.  A  number of repairs were  carried out. These included, tightening vinyl 
to remove creases, removing the seat section and hammering  the staples flat. The repairer 
noted the inside lining  was torn but this damage was caused  by pets.
Temple explained this type of damage wasnt covered on the theft and accident  damage 
insurance but it agreed to pay for the repair as a gesture of goodwill. It also says it carried 
out all the required  repairs but felt the second  set of repairs were unduly delayed  and it 
offered to compensate Mr G four weeks payments  totalling £80.46 in recognition of this.
Mr G remained  unhappy. He doesnt think the compensation offered is enough. He feels six 
months payments  would be more in keeping with the delay. He also says he still has 
ongoing issues such as sagging and staples and screws  coming undone.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He found that the repairs were  all carried out 
successfully and Mr G had reported  he was happy  with them at the time. When he looked 
into Mr Gs further  concerns about the sofa sagging and screws and staples coming undone  
he concluded this was more in keeping  with wear and tear rather than a fault at the point of 
sale. He found  the compensation offered by Temple to be fair and reasonable and didnt ask 
it to do anything further.
Mr G disagreed. He says there remains screws  lose and a squeaking noise he has reported 
to Temple but they havent done anything about  it. He says he doesnt have any pets that 
could have caused damage. He maintains the sofa is of unsatisfactory quality. He asked for 
an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN74295052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators view. I know  that will 
disappoint Mr G so please let me explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think  is more 
likely to have happened. 
Because Temple has supplied the sofa under a fixed  sum loan agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects,  and durability. I would expect a brand 
new sofa to be of a very high standard as compared to a refurbished sofa, as supplied  to Mr 
G, where I would expect to see a degree of wear  and tear. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  the finance  provider, Temple, are liable for the quality 
of goods at the point of sale and where a fault is found within the first 6 months, its generally 
up to the business to put things right. But that doesnt mean it has indefinite  liability for faults 
that develop during the life of the goods.  
I can see Mr G reported  the faults  he found with the sofa in October 2017 and again in 
March 2018. The faults were all repaired at no cost to Mr G and as far as I understand, he 
was happy with the repairs  at the time. I understand Mr G says that some  of the damage 
reported by Eco Master couldnt have  been cause by pets, as he doesnt have any.
The report  actually says consumer damage  (pets) rather than a fault with the sofa about the 
torn lining. The repairer, on inspection of the sofa,  makes the comment.  The repairer may 
have assumed pet damage, but in any case,  the repair was carried  out at no cost to Mr G, 
even though it wasnt covered by the theft and accident insurance. 
I have looked  closely at the photographs  Mr G has sent this service  to illustrate his concerns 
over what  he says are ongoing issues. These include sagging  cushions, screws and staples 
coming loose. 
On balance, I find it more  likely than not the images represent a level of wear  and tear. Im 
not persuaded the images clearly show faults, which were  present at the point of sale or 
even in October 2017 or March 2018. I say this because Temple  repaired all the reported 
faults to Mr Gs satisfaction at the time. If the faults  Mr G has since reported  were present 
then I wouldve expected them to be identified on the earlier  inspection.
I appreciate Mr G is looking for around  six months  premiums refunded  by way of redress.  I 
understand he feels this would  more  fairly  reflect his inconvenience. I cant  see any evidence 
Mr G has been without  the use of his sofa and Temple  have carried out all the reported  
repairs so I cant fairly  ask it to refund six months of premiums. Temple  has agreed it could 
Ref: DRN74295053have acted sooner  to complete the repairs and Im persuaded four weeks premiums  fairly 
reflects that delay  and so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7429505