K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed card payments made  from his 
account.
background
In March 2018, Mr J went  away for the weekend with a group of friends. On one evening  
during this trip, he attempted  to make a withdrawal from a case machine but this was 
declined. Approximately  one hour later,  three card payments were made from Mr Js account 
totalling £451.69. And as these transactions were made  overseas,  Mr J was also charged a 
non-sterling purchase  fee on each transaction totalling £3.75.  Mr J still had possession of 
the card and was able to use it for later on during the same trip. 
Mr J complained to Santander  that he hadnt authorised  these transactions.  Santander 
refused to refund them. It said its evidence showed that the transactions had been carried 
out using his card and that theyd been authenticated when the PIN was entered. Mr J has 
told us that the card was in his possession  at the time the transactions  were made and, even  
if that wasnt the case, nobody else knows his PIN and he doesnt have it recorded  
anywhere either.
Santanders records suggested that the recipient of the payments was a bar or nightclub. But 
Mr J says he didnt visit the venue  in question. He says there were other places that he did 
visit, but he didnt  use his card in any of them. He was travelling with friends but he told us 
that it wouldnt have  been possible for any of them to have made use of his card without him 
being aware of it. 
Unhappy with the response from Santander,  Mr J referred the complaint to this service.  It 
was looked at by an investigator who concluded  that Mr J likely did authorise  the 
transactions. Theyd been carried out using Mr Js card and the PIN was entered  correctly  
first time. The investigator also felt that, if these  transactions had been carried  out by a 
fraudster, theyd generally be expected to take full advantage of having temporary access  to 
Mr Js account by spending as much  as possible.  That wasnt the case here.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. In his view, the most likely explanation is that 
his card was cloned when  he attempted  to use a cash machine an hour earlier and that his 
PIN was identified by an attached recording device. The investigator said that, although 
cloning the magnetic  strip on a card is possible,  were yet to see an example of someone 
successfully cloning the chip. Mr J feels that we cannot rule out the possibility that he is the 
first victim of such a practice.
Because Mr J disagreed  with the investigators opinion, the case  has been passed  to me to 
come to a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The basic  position  is that Santander can hold Mr J liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.  For 
Ref: DRN76214062all 3 transactions, Santander  has been  able to provide evidence showing that Mr Js genuine  
card was used, the chip was read and the PIN entered correctly.  But that isnt enough on its 
own for it to hold Mr J liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence  suggests its more  
likely than not that Mr J consented to these  transactions.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander  to hold Mr J liable for 
them. Hes told us that the card was in his possession throughout the period in which the 
disputed transactions  took place. I find it unlikely that a fraudster would have taken and used 
his card only to return it without him noticing.  And I agree with the investigator  that, if an 
opportunistic fraudster had genuinely managed  to get access to his account, they wouldve 
looked to make full use of that opportunity particularly given that Mr J has told us that he 
tried to maintain  a high balance on this account.  But from the evidence Santander has 
provided to me, there were no other attempts to withdraw money from his account or use the 
card around this time.  
Mr J has speculated that his card might  have been cloned and that a recording device 
couldve been placed on the cash machine he used in order  to identify his PIN. But although 
its possible to clone  the magnetic strip on a card and produce  a replica, theres  no evidence 
to suggest thats  possible  with the chip. So given that Santander has been  able to show that 
the chip was read,  Im persuaded that these  transactions were  carried  out with Mr Js 
genuine card.
Mr J also said that, although theres been no evidence of anyone  successfully cloning the 
chip on a plastic card, we shouldnt  rule out the possibility that hes the first victim of such a 
practice. Ive considered  this but Im not persuaded that this is what  happened here. I say 
that because,  if a fraudster had managed to obtain  access to Mr Js account in this way, Id 
have expected them to try to withdraw  as much cash  or authorise as many  payments as 
possible before  Mr J contacted Santander. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr J authorised  the 
disputed payments and it follows that Santander  is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621406