K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  Sesame  Limited is that the investment bond  they took out 
in 2007 wasnt  suitable for them.
background
Mr and Mrs M met with an adviser  in October 2007. At the time they were aged 69 and 68 
with no dependents, and they were both retired.  
The adviser asked  Mr and Mrs M about  their personal and financial circumstances, and their 
investment needs.  Following the advisers  recommendation,  Mr and Mrs M put £42,500 into 
an investment bond.
Mr and Mrs M withdrew £16,000 in 2013 to make a large purchase. I understand they 
surrendered the bond in 2017  and received £19,942.  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that the bond wasnt a suitable investment for them. They  say 
they were advised  to invest too much from their available funds, and they didnt  want  to 
invest for the medium or long term given their age. They think  the investment carried a 
greater risk than they were prepared to take.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He thought  the bond wasnt a 
suitable investment  for Mr and Mrs M and that Sesame should compensate them.  
Sesame disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in December 2019.  The key issue  I looked at was whether the 
bond was suitable for Mr and Mrs M at the time they were advised  to make the investment. 
Id seen a copy  of the financial  review  completed by the adviser and the letter he sent to 
Mr and Mrs M following their meeting. The adviser  asked  Mr and Mrs M about  their income 
and expenditure,  and their existing investments. He also discussed with them  how much 
they had available to invest and their investment objectives.
Mr and Mrs M told the adviser they had £68,500  of savings  on deposit. It was agreed that 
theyd keep £10,000 in a savings account  they could access in case  of emergencies.  
According to the paperwork, Mr and Mrs M told the adviser they wanted  to invest  £42,500 
over the medium to long term. They were  looking  for an investment  that had the potential for 
growth with some form of capital protection, and that would allow  them to draw an income if 
required in the future.
The adviser asked  Mr and Mrs M about  the level of risk they were prepared to take with their 
money. Their attitude to risk was categorised as three, out of six categories. The adviser  
said: you agreed that you were  prepared to accept a small degree of risk and that your 
financial position is such that immediate access to your money  is not essential, and believe 
you have to take some risk to have the potential for future capital growth.
It appeared the adviser considered a number of alternatives but recommended a protected 
investment portfolio bond. He said this offered Mr and Mrs M the chance  to invest  in stocks 
Ref: DRN71176072and shares while offering  some protection against market  volatility.  It also guaranteed to 
return the full investment  in the event  of death.
The bond  offered Mr and Mrs M access to a range of different funds.  The adviser 
recommended that the full £42,500 available should be invested  into one fund. That fund 
guaranteed that investors would always get back a portion of their initial  investment, 
equivalent to 80% of the highest value. 
Mr and Mrs M had said they were advised  to invest too high a proportion of their available 
funds. But they kept £10,000  in a savings account  and had access to some  other  funds. 
Taking account of their circumstances  at the time,  I didnt think  Sesame did anything wrong 
in recommending that they invest as much  as they did.
Mr and Mrs M had also said they didnt want to invest for the medium or long term. 
But based  on the paperwork from the time, I thought they were  looking to invest for that kind 
of period. And given the aims they discussed with the adviser, I thought  it was reasonable for 
Sesame to recommend  an investment over that kind of timeframe.
Id looked closely  at whether the investment recommended to Mr and Mrs M matched their 
attitude to risk. Mr and Mrs M were  described as category 3 investors. The description of 
that category  said: I understand that under some  circumstances I could lose a small amount 
of my money. 
The financial  review said that typical investment  types for a category 3 investor  would 
include high yield corporate  bond funds, distribution funds, UK property funds and cautious 
managed funds. The next risk category (4) included balanced managed  funds and UK equity 
(mainstream) funds.
The information on the protected investment bond said it gave access  to a variety  of different 
funds, some of which carried a higher risk than others.  The fund recommended to Mr and 
Mrs M was described as suitable  for an ethical investor requiring some form of protection.  
The notes on the fund said that it was made  up of a maximum of 70% in UK equities at any 
one time,  with the remainder in cash. 
Mr and Mrs M were  prepared to accept a small degree of risk and understood they could 
lose a small amount of money. But I thought the fund they invested  in exposed  Mr and 
Mrs M to a higher level of risk than they wanted to take, or Sesame had assessed they were 
willing to take.  And although the fund offered  some  protection against market volatility,  they 
were only guaranteed to get back 80% of the bonds highest value.  
Based on what Id seen,  I didnt think Mr and Mrs M were given clear enough information 
about the composition of the fund,  or the extent of the capital protection it offered. If that 
information had been clear to them, then I didnt think theyd have gone ahead with the 
investment. 
Overall, I didnt  think the investment met Mr and Mrs Ms objectives and I didnt think  it was 
suitable for them. I said that I was therefore planning  to uphold their complaint and tell 
Sesame to pay them fair compensation. I set out what I thought would be fair compensation, 
aiming to put Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably be in if they hadnt 
been given unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN71176073responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs M have  accepted my provisional  decision. Sesame disagree with my provisional 
decision. They say the investment recommended to Mr and Mrs M was consistent  with their 
attitude to risk. Ive considered what theyve said in my findings  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sesame say the investment recommended to Mr and Mrs M aimed to provide some capital 
growth whilst  also protecting against market volatility. The asset  mix was rebalanced to 
ensure a maximum of 70% in UK equities  at any one time.
Sesame accept that the fund would only protect up to a certain level of the initial  investment 
and not the whole amount. But they say Mr and Mrs M had confirmed they could accept the 
risk of a small loss to their money.  Sesame  say that, having  discussed and discounted  other 
investment products and researched funds, the adviser's recommendation was appropriate 
for Mr and Mrs M's attitude to risk and their circumstances.
Ive considered everything that Sesame have  said, but my conclusions remain  the same  as 
in my provisional decision.  
I agree  that Mr and Mrs M were prepared to accept  a small degree of risk and understood 
they could lose a small amount of money.  But as much as 70% of Mr and Mrs Ms money 
could be invested  in UK equities at any one time. I think that exposed them to a higher level 
of risk than they wanted to take. And I think it was a higher level of risk than the adviser had 
assessed they were  willing to take.
  
The fund offered some protection  against  market falls. But Mr and Mrs M were only 
guaranteed to get back 80% of the bonds highest  value.  
Overall, I dont  think the investment met Mr and Mrs Ms objectives and I dont think  it was 
suitable for them. Ive therefore decided to uphold this complaint.
Sesame have said they disagree  with the compensation  that I proposed in my provisional 
decision. They dont  think the method suggested reflects the fact that Mr and Mrs M were 
prepared to take some risk and were not classed as cautious investors. 
Ive considered what Sesame have said. But the compensation I proposed was based on 
Mr and Mrs M saying  they were looking for capital growth and were prepared to take a small 
degree of risk. As I said in my provisional  decision, its not possible to say precisely what  
Mr and Mrs M would  have  done if theyd not been given unsuitable advice.  But Im satisfied 
that what I proposed  is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and 
objectives when  they invested. 
 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs M as close to 
the position they would probably now be in if they hadnt been  given  unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN71176074I think Mr and Mrs M would have  invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would  have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
what should  Sesame  do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly,  Sesame must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional interest
protected investment portfolio bond
 surrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
2/11/07date surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Sesame 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
Ref: DRN71176075If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Sesame totals  all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr and Mrs M's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared  to take a small level of risk to attain their investment  objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs M into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs M would have invested 50% of their money  in a fixed  rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker  fund.  Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr and Mrs M could 
have obtained  from investments  suited to their objective and risk attitude.  
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  
against Sesame  Limited.   
Sesame Limited should  put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7117607