K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy with the premiums charged by Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  from 
2009 to 2014 for his home insurance
background
Mr J bought his insurance through his bank branch in 2009 when he arranged a re-
mortgage. The price  then was £401:  it rose over the years until 2014 when it had increased 
to £829.84. In 2015 Mr J found a policy through a price comparison website for £500 less. 
He felt he had been misled by Lloyds into thinking its policy  was competitively priced  
compared to others  on the market. Lloyds reviewed  his complaint but said the price offered  
was correct and reflected  the risk to it.
After referral to this service, and because the complaint was held up in our general  review of 
pricing cases, Lloyds  offered compensation of £100 in an effort  to clear the complaint.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the case and said Lloyds  could have done more  to engage Mr J 
with the renewal process. She said it might  have been appropriate to refund part of the 
premiums for the renewal  years 2013  and 2014. But she noted Lloyds offer of £100 and 
thought this was appropriate and that Lloyds  didnt need to pay any more.
Mr J rejected the offer as he felt that Lloyds had been deceitful towards him.
Lloyds pointed out that it hadnt accepted any liability. It said the adjudicators findings 
amounted to a retrospective application  of the rules introduced  in 2017 by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  requiring insurers, after the fourth  renewal, to advise customers 
that they may get insurance  cover for a better price if they shop around. It also said the 
wording in its policy renewal letters didnt discourage customers  from shopping around.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I havent seen  any evidence  that Lloyds itself wouldve been  able to offer a 
cheaper policy to Mr J. There were presumably cheaper policies on the market but that 
doesnt mean that Lloyds overcharged  him. I note that Mr J has been  able to find a cheaper 
policy for considerably  less than Lloyds was charging. But I dont  know if this offers exactly 
the same  cover and its likely that the policy was sold at a discount for new customers.
Mr J says the renewal documents were misleading,  saying  Whatever you decide with us 
you will always receive excellent service,  bringing  you high quality cover at a competitive 
price, And that the policy benefited from substantial discounts. Lloyds has told us that it 
has carried out behavioural analysis  and as a result  it doesnt think those words  impact 
renewal rates.
But I would think that those words could imply that the price  is competitive compared with 
other policies on the market. And that is a high bar to justify. So I agree  with Mr J that they 
could be taken to be misleading. 
Ref: DRN76151162The words  substantial discounts " clearly  refer to the no claims discount and to the discount 
available for having a working burglar alarm. I dont think  those words are misleading in 
themselves but when  taken together with the other  wording, they do create an impression 
that the policy was good  value.
I note Lloyds' reference to the FCA rules.  It will be aware that the FCA considered that the 
rules and guidance that it was proposing at the time were intended to reinforce what  was 
already required  of firms, although in a more prescriptive way than previously. Insurers  are 
required to give clear  information that isnt misleading and I don't think  its a retrospective 
application of the rules  to say that the information  given  to customers  must  be set out in a 
way to ensure  that those who dont engage  in the renewal  process  (an inert customer) are 
encouraged to do so. I would think  that describing  the price  as competitive wouldnt 
encourage that. But I think  in Mr Js case  he wasnt inert and was quite able to use 
technology and would  have been  aware  that there  were other insurance providers. 
Our adjudicator looked at the policy price from the 2012 renewal onwards. Before then she 
quite rightly said that the policy  would have had an element of introductory  discount. And the 
level of cover that Mr J had from Lloyds and the service that he would  have expected had he 
needed to make a claim, werent necessarily comparable with the alternative policy he found  
in the market place. So I do think that Mr J should  have been  encouraged to engage more in 
the 2012 and 2013 renewal years, but because  of the misleading wording in the renewal 
documents, he perhaps didnt. 
However, the loss that I think he suffered as a result  was in this case  quite minimal, 
particularly bearing  in mind the cover levels he had from his Lloyds policy and the fact that 
there is no set price an insurer has to charge for cover. Ive therefore estimated that the loss 
he suffered as a result  of the advantage  that was taken of him was below £100 and so 
Lloyds offer of £100 compensation is, I think, a fair way of resolving the complaint.
my final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited should pay Mr J £100  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7615116