K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car he is financing  through an agreement with Mi Vehicle Finance 
Limited (MIVF) is not of satisfactory quality.
Mr R has at times been represented  by his parents in this complaint but for ease I will refer 
to Mr R throughout this decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr R took receipt of a used car in April 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with MIVF. The car had 80,588 delivery miles and was 11 years old at the 
inception of the agreement.
But Mr R has had problems with the car. The car was returned to the dealership on several 
occasions for the following  problems:
within the first month low fuel pressure
July 2017 engine misfiring; new water pump also fitted
August 2017 engine misfiring, plugs and coil caps  replaced
November 2017 engine misfiring; coil packs replaced
In November 2017 the dealership noted the oil level was low on the car and they said this 
invalidated the warranty. So Mr R complained  to MIVF. He said he wanted to reject  the car 
and terminate his finance agreement with them.
An independent inspection was organised and the inspector  was able to replicate the misfire 
Mr R complained about. He suggested  it was probably due to a fuel system  problem.  
But MIVF didnt agree. They thought it likely that the faults Mr R complained of had been  
fixed and the subsequent  issues were  caused  by oil starvation.
Dissatisfied with MIVFs response  Mr R referred  his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  his opinion. He thought there  was clear evidence that the car was 
misfiring and had been for some  time.  He said that Mr R had returned his car on three 
occasions within the first six months for the same issue and it was clear MIVF had failed to 
resolve the problem.  He didnt think it was related to oil starvation and he thought  it would be 
fair for MIVF  to allow Mr R to reject the car; terminate his finance agreement and refund his 
deposit. He thought they should  also refund half of one monthly  instalment as, although he 
was satisfied Mr R had been able to cover  reasonable mileage  in the car, he realised it had 
been in for repair  for 16 days. He added that he thought  MIVF should pay Mr R £200 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr R provided  some  additional comments too. He explained that he hadnt driven the car since 
April 2018 and hed driven less than 5,500  miles per year in it. He said MIVF were benefitting 
from delaying this process as he was continuing  to pay for a vehicle he wasnt  using. And he 
wanted them  to refund the cost of the independent inspection  hed had to pay for.
Ref: DRN77256012MIVF agreed to allow Mr R to reject  the vehicle but they disputed  the need  to refund the 
whole deposit.  They said that they should only need to pay a proportion of this deposit back 
as Mr R had fair use of the vehicle. They asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr R should be allowed to reject  the car but I dont currently  agree with the redress 
our adjudicator has suggested. Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MIVF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr R. The car here 
was around eleven years  old and had travelled 80,588 miles. So Id expect to find some 
problems but I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to persistently misfire 
regardless of the age and mileage.
The relevant  legislation  says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Mr Rs car was returned to the dealership on three  occasions in the first six months  so I think 
its likely  it did have a misfiring problem when it was supplied to him.
The issue  clearly hasnt  been resolved and the independent inspector has suggested  its due 
to a fuel system problem.  I dont  think it would be fair to suggest this has anything to do with 
oil starvation as MIVF  suggested. Theres no evidence  of that. 
So as MIVF havent been able to resolve the problem that was present or developing in this 
car at the point  of supply, I think its fair and reasonable for them to allow Mr R to reject the 
vehicle.
Ref: DRN77256013In those circumstances its this services usual  approach to tell the business to refund  the 
deposit and here I dont  see any reason to deviate  from that. The amount being financed 
was net of the deposit and the deposit  simply allowed  Mr R to finance  a smaller amount and 
consequently pay lower instalments. Any loss of use of the car should be compensated by 
refunding some of those  instalments as it would be unfair for Mr R to pay for a product he 
wasnt receiving full benefit from. But I dont think the deposit can be treated the same way. 
Its purpose was to reduce the amount of credit required.
Mr R has explained that the car hasnt been  driven  since April 2018 as it entered  limp mode. 
Hes provided an odometer reading  to show the car has now covered 92,005 miles. So in 
just over two years  hes completed about  11,500 miles. 
The hire purchase agreement was established  with an annual mileage limit of 12,000 so I 
think its fair to suggest Mr R expected to complete about that mileage. Although I think its 
likely he wouldve set this limit a little higher than his expectations as he wouldnt have 
wanted to risk attracting excess mileage charges. In the first year I think its therefore 
reasonable to say he completed a fair mileage in the car of about 11,500.  This was in line 
with his expectations when he signed the hire purchase agreement.
But thereafter hes not been  able to drive the car but he has been paying for it. I therefore  
dont currently agree with the adjudicators suggested redress.  I think  its fair and reasonable 
for MIVF to refund all instalments from April 2018 and add half a monthly  instalment for the 
time the car was in the garage and Mr R was unable to use it.
Its clear too that Mr R has been inconvenienced by these issues  and having considered  all 
the circumstances I agree  that £200  is reasonable compensation.
Mr R wouldnt  have had to pay for an independent  inspection of the car if MIVF had agreed 
to allow  him to reject it earlier.  I think there was clear  information available  to them at that 
time that the misfiring problem had not been  resolved and that Mr R therefore had a strong 
case for rejecting  the car. So Im expecting to tell MIVF to refund the cost of the inspection 
Mr R commissioned.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Mi Vehicle 
Finance Limited  to:
terminate the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr R
refund all finance instalments paid from and including April 2018  and add half of one 
monthly instalment in recognition of loss of use
refund Mr Rs deposit  and add 8% interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced
refund the cost of the independent inspection on provision of the receipt
my findings
MIVF and Mr R accepted my provisional decision and so Ive found no reason  to change it.
Ref: DRN77256014my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mi Vehicle Finance Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr R
refund all finance instalments paid from and including April 2018  and add half of one 
monthly instalment in recognition of loss of use
refund Mr Rs deposit  and add 8% interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced
refund the cost of the independent inspection on provision of the receipt
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725601