K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Canada Square Operations Limited  trading  as Egg  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Canada Square Operations  Limited  as Egg.
background
The policy was added  to Mrs Ps at the same time as taking out a credit card online in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she cant remember  how the policy was sold to her. Egg says the policy was sold 
during an online application. From the information  Ive been given it looks like it was an 
online application. Whatever way the policy was sold, Egg shouldve made Mrs P aware  she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI. Mrs P says she wasnt aware the PPI had been added.
Egg has explained the sales  process and given us screenshots  of how the PPI wouldve 
been shown to Mrs P at the time of the sale. I have no reason to think Mrs P wouldve seen 
something different.  So Ive looked  carefully at these screenshots  and I can see Mrs P 
wouldve been given  a choice to select yes or no to buy the policy. The process  wouldve 
required an option to be selected before an applicant couldve moved on to the next section. 
And the fact the PPI was added to Mrs Ps account makes me think its more likely  she 
selected the yes option.
So I think Egg made Mrs P aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it.
The policy was taken  out over the internet, without any apparent  involvement from an Egg 
representative so I dont think it recommended the PPI to Mrs P. This means  Egg didnt have 
to check it was right for her. But it shouldve made sure it gave Mrs P enough information to 
allow her to choose whether the PPI was right for her or not.
Looking at the screenshots, I think the information  Egg gave Mrs P about the costs, benefits 
and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. So Ive got to consider 
whether better information about  the policy wouldve put Mrs P off taking  it out.
I dont think it would  have.  Mrs P doesnt appear  to have been affected at the time by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover  such as any existing health conditions  or any 
unusual working  patterns.
Ref: DRN74693892Mrs P says she wouldve  received some  sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside these benefits  and would have also covered her repayments 
if she was made unemployed. She also says she didnt  have  any other means  of making  her 
repayments  such as savings. So I think Mrs P would have had a use for the policy.   
Taking everything into account,  even if Mrs P had been given  clear  information, I still think  
she wouldve bought  the policy. Which means  Egg doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs P.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs P about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7469389