K821x#15complaint
Ms G is unhappy with what Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) has 
offered to do to put things right as a result of irresponsibly giving her a Safety Net Facility.
background
Ms G approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in 2016. This was a running credit account  
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a Safety Net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms G was initially given a facility with a credit  limit of 
£350, this was later increased to £500 in August 2016.    
When SNC investigated Ms Gs complaint, it said it hadnt done anything  wrong. And based 
on the checks it carried out it discovered that Ms G had sufficient disposable  income to be 
able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
 
Ms G wasnt  happy with SNCs response and referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Ms Gs complaint and she thought the checks  SNC carried 
out went far enough.  But, there was information that SNC shouldve queried  with Ms G, 
including the fact that one of the incomes recorded wasnt actually hers and at the time the 
facility was approved  and she was responsible  for all of the living costs of her household. So 
the adjudicator  thought that, had SNC  asked  further  questions about the information it found 
during its checks,  it wouldnt have given Ms G the facility,  and so she fully upheld Ms Gs 
complaint. 
SNC accepted the adjudicators recommendation, and explained that after the redress  
calculation had been carried out Ms G would still have an outstanding balance  to be paid, 
albeit shed owe a much smaller amount. SNC  also offered Ms G the opportunity  to set up 
an affordable repayment  plan,  to clear the outstanding balance. 
Ms G disputed the settlement figure and outstanding  balance provided to us by SNC.  The 
adjudicator approached SNC with Ms Gs concerns and SNC then provided a new 
breakdown of how it reached  the outcome, but the figures remained the same. The 
adjudicator reviewed these figures, and agreed that SNCs calculations seemed broadly fair.
But, Ms G didnt respond to our adjudicators  final email, so the case  has now been  passed 
to me for a final decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think what  SNC has agreed to do is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case. Id like to explain why I think  
this.
Ref: DRN78773682Both Ms G and SNC are in agreement  that she shouldnt have been given the Safety Net 
facility and any funds  as a result. So I dont need  to look at whether SNCs checks  were  
reasonable and proportionate, I only need decide whether what it has offered to do to put 
things right is fair. But, as Ms G appears  to be unhappy with the settlement Ive focused on 
this.  
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to try to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been  in if the facility hadnt been granted.  In an ideal world, wed tell 
the lender to put Ms G into the position she wouldve  been had the facility not been 
approved. But that isnt always possible. After all, Ms G has use of the funds. 
So, its simply not possible  to put Ms G in the position she would be in if she hadnt  been 
given this Safety Net facility in the first place.  And we have to look at what  else we can do to 
put things right in a way thats fair to all parties. In reality its the (increasing) interest  and 
charges on these loans,  thats the main  adverse  consequence  of a business  giving  a 
consumer a loan it shouldnt have and which was unaffordable.  
As a result, where  a lender provided  a consumer with credit it shouldnt  have, wed expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and / or 
charges on the facility.  So in practice  this mean  wed ask the lender to refund  any interest 
and charges a consumer  may have paid.  
And if those  interest  and charges  were paid, wed also add 8% simple interest per year, until 
the date of the refund.  The lender will normally  also remove adverse information  rather  
than all reference to the loan - recorded  on the consumers  credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on those loans. And given the consumer will have had and used the 
funds wed usually expect  the funds borrowed to be repaid. 
So looking  at what happened in this case,  both SNC  and Ms G agree that while  she used the 
facility she borrowed a total of £1,870.05. And the statement of account  provided to us by 
SNC also supports  that this sum was lent. SNC  also says it added  a total of £348.39 worth of 
interest to the above amount.
It also acknowledged Ms G had made repayments  totalling £1,552.97. This left an 
outstanding balance to be paid of £665.47.  But of the £665.47, £165.47 was interest that 
had been added to the balance by SNC but which hadnt been paid by Ms G, so this amount 
would be removed from the outstanding balance Ms G would need  to repay.  
So thinking  about putting things right for Ms G, the total outstanding principal sum due was  
£500, minus £182.92 worth of interest that Ms G had already paid (out if the £348.39 of total 
interest) and with the 8% simple interest added Ms Gs outstanding balance,  to be paid was 
£291.13 and this figure was correct as of May 2018.
The information above, along  with the statement of account and the calculations provided to 
this service by SNC appear to be broadly speaking in line what it was told it needed to do to 
put things right for Ms G.
Overall, it doesnt seem  that the calculations provided to us by SNC are unreasonable.  And 
Ms G hasnt given us any specific reason, (following our adjudicators final email)  as to what 
SNC has done wrong or why she feels shes entitled to more  compensation. 
Ref: DRN78773683I accept that this decision may come as a disappointment  to Ms G that weve upheld her 
complaint and she will still have  a balance to repay. But, overall  and having carefully thought 
about what Ms G has said, I think what SNC  has already  agreed  to do, is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of his particular case.  And I dont think  it needs  to do anything more in 
order to put things right for Ms G. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Ms G, SNC  should,  in line with what  it has already agreed to do:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Ms Gs Safety Net facility; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit  file as a result of this facility 
having been given to her.
I understand that Ms G has an outstanding balance remaining on her Safety Net facility.  If 
after having  removed all the interest  and charges  applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, SNC can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Ms G. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
SNC has also said that if Ms G would  like to set up a manageable repayment plan she 
should contact  its complaints  department.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7877368