K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with her home 
emergency insurance policy claim. My references  to Admiral include its agents.
Mrs G is the sole policyholder. Shes represented in her complaint by her husband, Mr G.
Mrs G will note that my decision is about a business with a slightly  different name to the 
business our investigator's  correspondence  referred  to. Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  
is the insurer of the policy  and the correct business for my decision to be about. It hasnt 
objected to the change and the change hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
background
On 23 May Mrs G claimed on her boiler emergency cover  insurance as she had no hot 
water. Admirals contracted engineer made numerous visits to try to repair the problem 
which was finalised on 5 June. 
Our investigator has detailed the chronology of events. In summary, Mrs G complains that 
Admirals engineer caused damage  to a boiler part, the manifold/hydroblock, while carrying  
out the repairs. That meant a more expensive repair. Admiral confirmed to us that Mrs G had 
to pay £214.65  as the repair cost exceeded  the £500 policy limit. Also after the engineer's 
visit on 25 May the family were left without  heating as well as no hot water. Mrs G complains 
that if Admiral's engineer hadnt broken the part and not ordered wrong parts the boiler 
would have been fixed in about three  days,  not the two weeks it took.
When Mrs G complained  to Admiral it agreed  to pay her £250, which was the alternative 
accommodation benefit under the policy, as her house had been  uninhabitable. Admiral  
hadnt told her about the benefit  during the repair period.
Mrs G complained to us. She wants Admiral to refund the £214.65  and pay more 
compensation. She said Admiral's  delay caused a lot of inconvenience. Mr G had to search 
for parts and speak to the boiler  manufacturer to make sure the engineer  had ordered the 
correct parts. The family had to boil kettles for washing and use their local leisure  centre for 
showering facilities. Mrs G has a back  condition  and wasn't able to have a hot bath to help 
her discomfort.
Our investigator thought Admirals engineer had damaged  the manifold/hydroblock  while  
refitting the replacement diverter  valve. Admiral  should  pay Mrs G £214.65  plus interest. It 
should also pay £150 compensation in addition to the £250  policy  benefit paid.
Admiral paid Mrs G the £150 compensation, which she agreed.  But Admiral's engineer didnt 
accept it had damaged  the part so it wouldnt pay the £214.65. It said the part disintegrated 
due to the age and condition of the boiler. 
Before I made my decision I asked if Mrs G had any evidence direct from the boiler  
manufacturer to support that the part failing was likely due to damage by Admiral's engineer.  
Mr G, on Mrs Gs behalf, had provided comments from his telephone conversations  with the 
boiler manufacturer. Mrs G provided evidence which Ill refer to below.
Ref: DRN75514912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have now agreed the £150 compensation for Mrs Gs distress and 
inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt,  I think thats a reasonable amount.
The only issue left for me to decide is whether Admiral should  refund the £214.65, and 
I think it should. I uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Admirals engineers work report for the second visit says:
After removing and fitting a new diverter valve head and automatic air vent on the pump 
I discovered that the hydraulic block of the diverter valve was also damaged in two separate
places so this also requires replacing.
The photos  provided by Admiral from the first visit show the manifold/hydroblock wasn't 
damaged at that point. The work  reports show the damage to the part was first noticed by 
Admiral's engineer  during  the second visit, after he replaced the diverter  valve.  The photo in 
the job sheet for that visit shows the manifold/hydroblock leaking.
Admirals engineer says the relevant part disintegrated due to the age and condition  of the 
boiler, the disintegration hadnt just occurred and the part had been holding on by luck.
Mr G told us the boiler manufacturer said that if there had been damage  to the 
manifold/hydroblock before the diverter valve was refitted, he would have seen evidence of a 
major leak. The boiler manufacturer has now written to confirm that point. There  was no 
evidence of a leak until Admirals engineer refitted the diverter value. 
I also accept Mr Gs point that if the manifold/hydroblock was already showing signs  of 
disintegration when Admirals  engineer  removed  the original diverter valve, he wouldnt have 
done a reasonable repair  by fitting  the new diverter to a disintegrating manifold/hydroblock.
Looking at the available evidence I think its more  likely than not that the manifold/hydroblock  
was damaged by Admiral's engineer. Admiral's notes show  the £214.65 Mrs G had to pay 
over the policy  limit was a result of the cost in relation  to the relevant part.
Admiral must pay Mrs G £214.65 plus interest  as detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  to pay Mrs G:
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused (as its now agreed 
and paid), and 
£214.65 plus interest*  at 8% simple  a year from the date Mrs G made the payment to 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN75514913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7551491