K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains as a director of S, a limited company about what  Allianz  Insurance Plc did 
after he made a claim  on Ss commercial  insurance  policy. 
background
S has insurance with Allianz which includes cover for contents, stock  and business 
interruption. In October 2018  there  was an escape  of water into Ss business premises.  Mr F 
made a claim on the policy tor the damage caused and for business  interruption. The claim  
progressed and Allianz agreed  to pay £7,112  (the maximum  set out in the policy schedule) 
for the contents  claim and around £1,600  for stock damage (less the policy  excess  of £250). 
Initially Allianz said it wouldnt pay the business  interruption claim as S had continued trading 
since the incident took place; it said it would assess this once it had to close for repair work. 
However, it subsequently  agreed to make a payment of around £20,000 on the basis of the 
forecast interruption as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr F was unhappy the contents element of his claim didnt include all the items hed claimed 
for, in particular the replacement cost of flooring and lighting at the premises. Allianz said it 
couldnt pay more  than the policy limit for contents.  And it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong in relation to the business interruption claim. But it accepted  some  of its 
communication with Mr F could have been  better and offered to pay £75 in recognition of 
this. 
Our investigator thought that was fair and said any issues Mr F had with how the policy  had 
been set up and the sum insured for contents  would need to be raised with the broker  who 
arranged it. Mr F didnt  agree. He said it was unfair  he had to raise it with the broker  and 
thought Allianz  should take responsibility  for this as theyd chosen  the broker  and would in 
any case be recovering their costs from his landlords insurer. So I need to reach  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a really difficult experience for Mr F. I recognise the difficulties it 
caused for S which  hes described. However,  the Trade Contents section of his policy  says 
the Insurers liability under this Section is limited to the Sums Insured shown against each 
respective item on the Schedule. And the policy defines the sum insured as the maximum 
amount the Insurer will pay for each  item insured under any Section.  
Ive looked at Ss policy schedule and I can see it was only insured for contents to the value  
Allianz has paid out in this case.  So the maximum amount the policy provides for contents 
cover (and which the premiums S paid reflected) has been paid out. And I dont think  there 
are any other elements of Ss policy under  which outstanding  items  could be covered; for 
example S doesnt have buildings insurance. I appreciate that does mean the full value of 
Ss claim  hasnt been paid but I cant fairly ask Allianz to do anything more here. And while  I 
agree there were some  customer service failings  by Allianz in dealing with the claim I think 
the £75 its already agreed to pay does  enough  to put things  right here.  
Ref: DRN72093212If Mr F is concerned the policy didnt  meet Ss needs that is something hes going to need  to 
raise with his broker. I appreciate he feels Allianz should be responsible  for their actions. If 
the broker was an appointed representative or agent  of Allianz he might be right. But I dont 
think it is; the brokers entry on the Financial Conduct Authority register of regulated firms 
doesnt show it as having that sort of relationship  with Allianz.  
Mr Fs complaint to Allianz  was also about the settlement of the business interruption claim S 
made. Allianz initially said it couldnt assess  this until after the reinstatement work at the 
property had been completed. But it subsequently agreed to pay nearly £20,000 in advance  
of that taking place as a gesture of goodwill. Mr F hasnt raised this in recent 
correspondence and appears to have  accepted  that amount. And I think  Allianz acted fairly 
in making that payment. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think Allianz  Insurance  Plc has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F (on behalf of 
S) to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7209321