K821x#15complaint
Mr S, a named driver on Mrs Ss motor insurance  policy, complains that Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  declined their claim following an accident. They asked if this was fair. 
background
Mr S had an accident on a motorway involving another  driver  and the police attended. Calpe 
accepted liability  on Mr Ss behalf. But it declined  the claim for their losses as it said there 
were numerous inconsistencies  between what Mr S told the police and his statement to his 
insurer. Calpe told Mrs S that Mr S had made  a false statement to its investigator. It said this 
breached the policy terms and conditions regarding fraudulent claims. Mr S and Mrs S were 
unhappy with this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the two 
accounts differed  slightly. But he thought Mr S spoke to the police shortly  after the accident 
when he was affected by shock. He thought what Mr S told Calpe later and in his statement 
could have been a more  accurate account. So he thought Calpe hadnt shown that Mr S had 
acted fraudulently and so should assess the claim  under the policy terms and conditions.  He 
thought that interest should  be added  to any settlement. And he thought Calpe should pay 
Mr S and Mrs S £500 compensation  for their distress  and inconvenience.  
Calpe replied that Mr S had lied in his statement so that he could claim for personal injuries 
against another driver  who he said hit him from behind. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the images of the cars after the accident, I can see that this must have been a 
distressing experience for Mr S and his family. Mr S said they were  checked out by an 
attending ambulance and didnt then have any injuries. But Mrs Ss car was deemed to be 
beyond economical  repair. Calpe accepted liability  on Mr Ss behalf and dealt with the other  
drivers claim. But it has declined Mrs Ss claim for her losses and she has been asked to 
pay the policy excess and the outstanding premium.   
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see from Mrs Ss policy that Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions to decline 
a claim if any part is false, exaggerated or fraudulent. Our approach is that an insurer should 
show that a claim is more likely than not fraudulent.  So, like the investigator, this is what  Ive 
considered. 
The circumstances described  to us by Mr S were that he was driving  at about 60 to 65mph 
on a motorway in rain and snow. He told us that he may have been clipped in the back  by 
another car and this caused him to lose control of his car and hit a barrier  and another car. 
This is also what Mr S told Calpe when it called  him about the other drivers claim about 
three weeks after the accident. 
Ref: DRN79240262Two weeks after the phone call, and about five weeks after the accident, the accident report 
completed by Mr S says that he was hit in the back by the other car. 
In Mr Ss statement taken by Calpes investigators  two months after the accident, he said he 
was definitely  hit from behind by the other driver. But Mr S told the police at the scene that 
he skidded when  he braked and so hit the barrier. The police  report  also gives the officers 
opinion that Mr S hit the barriers and then the other car. 
So the key discrepancy between the accounts  is whether  Mr S was hit by the other driver 
before or after he lost control of his car. In his account in the police report, Mr S didnt 
mention the other car. But the account is very brief. It was taken shortly  after the accident 
when Mr S had ended up in a ditch. I agree with the investigator that consideration should be 
given to these  circumstances and their likely  effect on Mr Ss recollection  at the time. 
Mr S said he reported the accident the next day, but I havent seen any evidence of that. Ive 
seen that Calpe learned of the accident when the other drivers  representatives  made a 
claim. Calpe then obtained Mr Ss account over the phone. In this, I think Mr S states  that 
hes uncertain whether  he was hit by the other  car. He repeats  this when pressed. He said 
he cant remember. As this is the first time Mr S described the accident after he had time to 
recover, I think its reasonable to give it more  weight than what the police report  provides. 
Mr Ss accident report was completed two weeks later and his statement to the investigator 
wasnt taken until a further two weeks after that. The statement is very detailed and 
descriptive. I think Mr Ss account  has changed over time and hes now definite  that he was 
hit first by the other car. This is a change in his recollection. But, given the passage  of time, I 
dont think it means Mr S is necessarily lying.  
I think the best evidence of what  happened  is in Mr Ss phone call with Calpe as thats 
detailed and the closer to the event. In this account  he was uncertain,  not 100% sure, that he 
was clipped. Calpes file notes say that the damage to the cars could support either version 
of events. I think Mr S has been  consistent  that he lost control in poor conditions. From the 
evidence he may have braked and then been hit by the other  car. 
So I dont  think Calpe  has provided  sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude that Mr S 
acted fraudulently. And I think  Calpe hasnt acted fairly in declining  the claim because of the 
policys fraud terms and conditions. 
And so I think Calpe should  now assess Mrs Ss claim in line with the terms and conditions  
of the policy. If a settlement is made, then I think Calpe should reasonably add interest  to 
this as Mrs S has been without her money for some  time. And I agree with the investigator 
that Calpe  should pay Mr S and Mrs S £500 compensation for the considerable distress and 
inconvenience caused by its accusation that they acted fraudulently  and for having  to wait so 
long for their claim to be assessed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
1.Continue to assess the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN792402632.If this leads to a settlement, then interest  should be added  to this at the rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date of loss to the date of payment.  
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Calpe to withhold income tax from that interest.  It must  
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much its taken off if she asks for one.
4.Pay Mr S and Mrs S £500  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by 
its handling of their claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7924026