K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company  Limited (Shop Direct) incorrectly  
added a missed payment  reference to her credit file.
background
Miss W purchased an item on credit provided by Shop Direct. She paid extra for delivery  and 
the cost of this was added  to her credit  account. She returned the item and Shop Direct 
agreed to waive  the delivery charge. This charge wasnt removed from the account and so 
when no payment was made Shop Direct  recorded that shed missed a payment  on her 
credit file.
Miss W complained to Shop Direct. It agreed it had made an error by not removing the 
delivery charge  from the account when  it had said it would. It agreed to amend her credit file 
and pay Miss W £25 compensation.
When Miss W brought her complaint  to our service, our investigator thought the amount of 
compensation paid should  be increased by £100.  Shop Direct accepted  this. 
But Miss W didnt.  She said applied for a loan around this time to pay for her wedding  but it 
was declined because  of her impacted credit score. And as a result  she said her and her 
partner used credit cards  to pay for the event. And she said this meant shed incurred much 
higher interest  charges  than if shed been able to get a loan. Shes asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Directs acknowledged  it made an error  in not removing the delivery  charge from 
Miss Ws account and this impacted her credit  file. But its recognised  this and removed the 
reference from the credit file accordingly. 
So I need to consider whether Miss W has suffered a financial loss as a result of 
Shop Directs error, and what, if any, additional  compensation  should  be paid for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by the error.
Miss Ws sure shes suffered a financial  loss. So to understand the impact,  Ive looked at the 
correspondence sent by the business  which rejected the loan. When it did so, it said it 
couldnt because  there was an increasing  level of debt on a credit card account. Theres no 
reference in its reasons  for rejecting the loan that it had noted a missed payment reference  
on Miss Ws credit file.
I know Miss W and her wife paid for the wedding on credit card but they didnt apply for the 
loan until after theyd  made the payments on the credit card.  So I dont think it follows that 
the payments  were  made  on a credit card because a loan application was refused. 
Shop Direct had also removed the reference  to a missed payment from Miss Ws credit file 
before the loan application was made. 
Ref: DRN76524612So based  on the available evidence, I cant see anything to suggest that the loan was 
refused because there was a missed payment reference on the credit file. And as a result, 
Im not satisfied its more  likely than not that the loan was refused because  of Shop Directs 
error.
But I do agree  that Miss W has been impacted by Shop Directs error. Shes  told us that 
around this time shed  been diagnosed with a serious illness  and was having  treatment. I 
can appreciate that Shop  Directs error would have caused her additional distress  because 
of this at this very difficult time.
So I dont  think the £25 compensation offered by Shop Direct properly recognised the level 
of distress caused. Our investigator  thought an additional £100  was appropriate 
compensation in the circumstances. I agree with this. Taking  into account everything Miss W 
has told us, I agree  with our investigators  recommendation, and Im directing Shop Direct to 
pay Miss W an additional £100 compensation
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must 
pay £125 compensation to Miss W. It can deduct  £25 from this figure  if it has paid this sum 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652461