K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Mr R owned a flat that he let to tenants. He had British Gas HomeCare cover for that flat.
Mr R or his tenants rang British Gas for help with the central heating boiler. After several 
visits, Mr R complained that British Gas hadnt fixed the boiler  and had made it dangerous 
by using incompatible parts. Mr Rs builder installed a new boiler on about 18 April 2018.
Mr R says British Gas should reimburse  him the cost of about  £2,200.00.
In its final response letter  in August 2018,  British  Gas said it was sending Mr R a cheque  for 
£80.00.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think 
that the number  of visits showed that the boiler was irreparable. Therefore she didnt 
recommend that British  Gas should pay for the new boiler.  But she thought  that the time 
British Gas had taken in attempting to resolve  the issues  couldve been managed better.  So 
she recommended  that British Gas should increase the compensation offered to £150.00 for 
the miscommunication and inconvenience.
The investigator said that she hadn't seen any evidence in regards to direct  financial loss 
because of the delay, for example loss of income. She said that If Mr R were able to 
evidence this, she might also consider this as additional compensation.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that he has enough evidence.
British Gas disagreed  with the investigators  opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.  It says,  in summary,  that:
There were  more  visits than you would expect to see, however  this is simply due to 
the fact that Mr R didnt  take any action following its recommendations, which led to 
more breakdowns and visits.
 The gesture it provided is fair and reasonable. 
When it was asked  to attend to the property, it did. 
 There was a problem  with sludge in the system, which was the main reason that the 
system kept failing.
The only other option it would have had was not to visit at all until the remedial work 
had been completed. 
Ref: DRN77855032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, most central heating systems have metal  radiators, pipes and parts of the 
boiler that contain water. Over time the water  corrodes  those  metal  parts  and forms sludge  
which may impede  or block the flow of water.
Im satisfied that Mr Rs builder installed the boiler  in the summer of 2013. Mr R has provided  
an email from his builder confirming that. And the British  Gas work history shows  the boiler  
as dating from 2013.
Mr R had HomeCare cover. It covered most boiler repairs.  And if British  Gas couldnt repair 
a boiler that was less than seven years  old, the policy  provided  for a replacement  boiler.
But the policy didnt  cover the cost of a power  flush.  And it excluded the following:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Ive seen the following note from a British  Gas visit in January 2017:
CODE 6 RECOMMENDED POWERLUSH  SYSTEM SLUDGED BOILER  
OVERHEATING ADVISED  CIRCULATION  ISSUES 
Mr R said (in his email of 19 April 2018) that his system  had been  flushed before. But he 
hasnt said when it was flushed and he hasnt  provided any documents  recording any flush. 
So I dont  find that anyone flushed  the system  between  summer 2013 and about 18 April 
2018. The policy terms meant that  after the advice in January 2017  the policy didnt 
cover damage caused by sludge.
Mr R has sent photographs of the boiler. He says British Gas fitted  parts incompatible  with it. 
And his builders email  includes  the following statement:
Just to reiterate in my professional option  [sic] the boiler stoped [sic] working 
because of the many incomparable [sic] replacement parts that were  installed by 
British Gas over a long period.
But the builder  hasnt given details of his qualifications and experience in relation to gas 
boilers. And neither the photographs nor the email are enough to show  what  replacement  
parts Mr R and his builder  are referring  to. So I dont find that British  Gas had fitted parts  that 
were incompatible with the boiler or that made  it dangerous.
Ive seen the following note from a British  Gas visit in late March 2018:
PHONED L/LORD, POWERFLUSH REQD  DUE TO SLUDGE  AND BLOCKAGE
Ref: DRN77855033From what  he has said, Mr R got quotes  for a flush from British Gas and others. But he 
made the choice  to get his builder  to install a new boiler  as well as flushing  the system.  He 
says the system water wasnt dirty and quickly ran clear.
Ive weighed up Mr Rs evidence with the evidence from British Gas including the note in late 
March 2018. And I find it more likely  than not that sludge had damaged  he boiler between 
January 2017  and March 2018.
Therefore the policy didnt  cover the repair of the damage.  And I dont think  it was the case  
that British Gas couldnt repair the boiler.  Rather  I think it was the case that British  Gas 
wouldnt repair the boiler free of charge because it had been  damaged  by sludge. I dont 
think British Gas treated  Mr R unfairly  by taking that position. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to reimburse  Mr R the cost of the new boiler.
But I think British Gas shouldve communicated more clearly with Mr R  with confirmation in 
writing  about what the policy covered  and what it didnt. I think  the shortcomings  in its 
communication caused Mr R some  extra distress and inconvenience  at an already difficult 
time for him. I find £150.00 fair and reasonable compensation for this. So I will direct British 
Gas to pay Mr R £150.00  (less the £80.000  if he has presented the cheque).
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £150.00  for distress and inconvenience 
insofar as it hasnt already paid him that sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785503