K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about various charges Creation Financial Services  Limited (Creation)  applied  
to his credit  card.  He wants the charges  refunded.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 January 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Creation didnt provide any further  information  for me to consider, But Mr J said hed been 
told by Creation that it would authorise some  essential transactions  even if it meant  the limit 
on the card was exceeded.  He didnt think this point had been addressed and felt it was 
important regarding the outcome of the complaint.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In his previous  submissions Mr J said he believed that the recently introduced £99 pre 
authorisation limits for fuel were partly  responsible  for the problems he experienced around 
his credit limits. And I explained that Mr J was only responsible for the actual amount that he 
spend  not the full £99 on each occasion he bought fuel. 
Hes now said that Creation has accepted that it would allow  a card limit to be exceeded  for 
essential transactions, such as fuel and groceries  for example. But that doesnt mean Mr J 
doesnt have any responsibility for being  able to calculate what  he spends and how it affects  
his overall account  balance.
So, although  I accept  what  Mr J has said about  Creation authorising  these essential 
transactions under certain conditions  I still think its Mr J responsibility to be aware of how 
close he might be to his cards credit limit and manage it accordingly. I dont think Creations 
policy around essential expenditure was responsible for the problems Mr J had here. Mr J 
hadnt exceeded his credit limit when he purchased fuel on these  occasions.  As Ive said I 
think it was his responsibility to be aware of the credit  limit and act accordingly to ensure he 
didnt exceed  it and incur charges.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint against  Creation Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78791602
Ref: DRN78791603copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr J complains about various charges Creation  Financial Services Limited (Creation) applied to his 
credit card. He wants the charges refunded.
background
Mr J holds an ASDA credit card administered  by Creation  with a £500 limit. Following  purchases hed 
made in January and February 2018 the balance  on the card exceeded the limit. In addition  his 
monthly payment wasnt  made  on time. As a result Creation applied an over limit fee, an unpaid  direct 
debit fee and a default sum fee. 
On 9 March 2018 Mr J complained  about the fees. He said the three charges that had been applied to 
his account occurred when  he was abroad and he wasnt  able to make a payment online. He said he 
immediately made a payment over the telephone but the charges  were still applied  despite the 
difficulties hed had. He wanted the charges refunded. He also said that Creation shouldnt  have 
processed payments  that took him over his credit limit. He said hed tried to find out his account  
balance prior to making a purchase but he wasnt able because Creations  interactive  phone system 
wasnt working.  
Creation said it had applied the charges correctly as payment hadnt been made  on time.  But it had 
now refunded  two of those  fees as a gesture of goodwill.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said that it was Mr Js responsibility  to be aware  
of his account balance and when a payment was due. She thought  Creation had acted fairly by 
applying the charges but noted that Creation  had refunded two of the three charges it applied.
Mr J didnt agree. In response he said:
only one of the three fees applied in February 2018  had been reversed. Not two as had been 
suggested;
he had incurred two further charges in May and June 2018 which the adjudicator  hadnt 
investigated as hed asked;
he hadnt received a response to his complaint  about the automated  phone  service not being  
available when he needed to know his card balance;
the problems with exceeding the card limit all occurred when purchasing fuel. Mr J felt this 
was because of the newly  introduced idea of pre authorising £99 at petrol  stations.
As theres  been no resolution the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see how strongly Mr J feels  about  this matter, and I have some sympathy for his position  as it 
began when he was abroad and was unable  to make his monthly credit card payment  online. But 
looking at Mr Js complaint points I dont think Creation has done  anything  wrong here. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr J so Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at copies of Mr Js credit card statements from November  2017.  Ive seen all the fees hes 
incurred and Ive also seen how Creation reversed both the default  sum and unpaid  direct debit 
charges from February  the default sum was reversed the same month while the direct debit reversal 
was on the May statement. So I cant agree with Mr J when he says only one charge  has been 
reimbursed. I think Creation  has done what it said it would.
Ref: DRN78791604I know Mr J would like Creation to be flexible by being able to refund the charges because  he was 
having difficulty making his monthly payment as he was abroad and without access  to the internet. 
But Mr J hasnt said he wasnt aware of the deadline for making the payment.  And I think  its 
reasonable for account  holders to make arrangements for payments that become due while away 
from home. In any event,  Mr J was able to pay by telephone a couple of days  later,  and I think he 
would have been able to make the payment on time using the telephone before or on the due date if 
he didnt have  internet  access. 
Ive carefully considered all the transactions on these statements and Ive seen  the other  over limit 
fees Mr J has disputed. But I think the fees were applied  correctly. On both occasions Mr Js balance  
had exceeded the credit  limit during that month. The terms and conditions of the card state that You  
agree to pay to us on demand our reasonable fees and administration charges, including  any arising 
out of any default by you under this Agreement, in accordance with the tariff shown  below as varied 
by us from time to time. Current charges (variable)  are as follows: fee for late payment: £12.. So I 
cant ask Creation to refund these charges in this case as I think  its applied them in line with how it 
said it would. 
Mr J says that Creation shouldnt  authorise payments that mean  he exceeds his credit limit. He 
especially believes that the recently introduced £99 pre authorisation limits have  caused problems 
with his card.  Hes suggested this means he now has £99 to spendbut the transaction debited  to his 
account was only for the amount he chose to spend and Im satisfied thats the figure  that was added 
to the outstanding balance  on his card. So I think Mr J is able to calculate  what  he spends and how 
that will affect his overall account balance.  So I dont  think the pre authorisation  limits would  have had 
any effect on his ability to manage the card.
Ultimately here I think Mr J is responsible for his account  and should  be aware of how close he might 
be to the credit limit. I know Mr J believes that Creation should take that responsibility and hes also 
said that hes been unable  to use the facilities  that Creation has made  available  to him to check his 
balance at crucial times. So he says he doesnt know what more he can do to ensure  he doesnt 
exceed his limit.
Creation has explained that apart from the automated  phone  system  Mr J said wasnt working  when 
he tried it; he could have spoken to an adviser  or used the mobile  online facility to obtain his balance. 
I dont dispute the system wasnt working at the time  automated systems  can fail from time to time.  
But I think Mr J couldve  spoken to adviser instead or used other alternatives to find out the balance 
on his account had he needed to do so. 
So, I cant conclude Creation  has done  anything unfair or unreasonable in its handling  of this matter.  
And this means  I cant uphold Mr Js complaint.  
I can see Mr J now has the facility to receive  a text message  when his card is near its credit limit. I 
hope thats helped  Mr J, although he might wish to contact  Creation to ensure the alert is in place and 
working to his satisfaction.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Mr Js complaint against Creation Financial 
Services Limited.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7879160