K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) were irresponsible when 
they approved  multiple applications for an increase in his arranged  overdraft.
background
Mr L brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with the responses he received from 
Halifax in relation to his concerns on 19 September and 3 October  2019.
Halifax told him they were  unable  to review his concerns about the overdraft facilities theyd 
agreed to provide  or the fees Mr L paid for using them  before August 2012  as they 
received his complaint outside the time limit for the submission of such  a complaint. Halifax 
didnt uphold  the complaint about  the overdraft or charges after August 2012. They told Mr L 
despite his concerns about the frequency with which he applied to increase his overdraft 
they thought the important question was whether he could afford the borrowing, not how 
frequently he applied. They said on each application  they reviewed the information both Mr L 
had provided and on his credit  score.  Based on that information Halifax  were satisfied Mr L 
should have been able to afford the overdraft fees payable on the account  and, if he chose 
to, gradually reduce the overdraft borrowing. 
Halifax told Mr L they felt the main  reason  for his difficulties was his spending on gambling. 
They said as it was a legal activity they didnt normally  check  customers  accounts for it and 
werent obliged  to. Halifax said they also had no evidence  of being informed of Mr Ls 
gambling problem.  But Halifax told Mr L that in view of his situation - without any admission 
of liability - they offered to refund all of the unplanned  overdraft  fees hes paid on the account 
since 1 August 2012 which totalled £160.
 
In her first view the adjudicator dealt with both what aspects  of the complaint we could deal 
with and the merits of the complaint itself. She found  his service could only consider the 
complaint for the time period of August 2012 onwards. She then looked at, in considerable 
detail, the three factors Halifax  said they took into account when approving limit increases  on 
an account. 
Overall she thought Halifax didnt behave responsibly when  they approved the additional  
lending  by way of three  overdraft limit increase applications  of £350 on 8 October 2012. 
She found the earlier applications to increase the overdraft between  30 August werent 
irresponsibly lent and the checks  undertaken on those to be proportionate to the requests. 
And  as Mr Ls statements didnt indicate  he had a persistent balance  owing against his 
overdraft - she didnt agree with his concerns that Halifax shouldve  taken action  to remedy  
that he was in persistent debt. She thought  Halifax should refund any interest,  fees or 
charges relating to any usage  of the overdraft above  the limit of £2,950 from 8 October 2012 
until the date of closure of the overdraft.  In the second view, after considering Mr Ms 
additional information, the adjudicator remained of the same view.
Halifax were willing to accept, without admission of liability, refunding charges relating to the 
extra amount borrowed  over £2950, as they thought  the charges for the initial £2950 
borrowed would stand.  They later agreed with the new investigators revised calculations  of 
charges, namely  £274.00. This was due to the higher tier of overdraft being used after the 
approval on 8 October 2019 at an extra charge of £1 a day for 209 days along with 13 
unplanned £5.00 charges  amounting to £65.
Ref: DRN70056782Mr L told us he appreciated this service couldnt  address  any complaint in this matter prior
to August  2012  but he didnt think any prior facts should be excluded  from influencing  the 
decision. Mr L said since no eligible complaint prior to August  2012 can be considered,  he 
believed Halifax acted  irresponsibly with the overdraft increases it allowed on 30th August 
2012. He based this on the loans he taken for a total of £9000  on 11 April 2012 and 7 
August 2012 along with the increase  in his overdraft form £2000  to £2500  in July. He said 
this was three requests for credit totalling  £9500  additional  debt in a four month  period. And 
she said, ultimately, between April and October 2012, hed made nine applications  for credit 
and thought Halifax shouldve realised earlier than 8 October 2012 that something was 
wrong. The case has now come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in the letter  
giving her first opinion. So I shant repeat that here.  Im afraid theres not a great  deal I can 
add to what the adjudicators already told Mr A. I think shes  covered most points quite 
clearly. I agree with her detailed analysis of the evidence and her overall conclusions both in 
relation to how far back we can look into this complaint which we can consider  and to the 
merits. 
Everyone accepts  we can only look at this complaint going back to August 2012. And theres 
no disagreement amongst the parties that fees and charges relating to the increases  on 8 
October 2012 will be refunded. But Mr L thinks Halifaxs decisions in approving  his 
applications for increases to his overdraft  were irresponsible from earlier than the adjudicator  
found. He thinks  the increases from 30 August 2012 onwards were irresponsible and the 
bank should refund fees and charges from then. But I disagree  and Ill explain  why. 
Ultimately its for a bank  to decide  what affordability criteria to apply and what  risk it was 
willing to take when it lends money. But the industry rules and guidance for lenders  
although not giving a set list of checks - says checks must be proportionate  and give 
examples of factors to be considered. So Ive gone  onto consider whether Halifax  completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks back in 2012  to satisfy itself that Mr L would  be able to 
repay his overdraft in a sustainable way.
The information from Halifax,  which the adjudicator has referred  to in detail in her first view, 
satisfies me that when  these earlier overdraft increases were approved - on 30 August  2012 
from £2500  to £2800, 14 September 2012  to £2900 and 16 September 2012  to £2950 - the 
checks were proportionate to the requests. To Mr Ls credit  hes since  repaid the overdraft.  
But he didnt  make Halifax aware  of his gambling  problem at the time.  And, whilst  I dont 
doubt Mr L was in a difficult situation back then, he has chosen to spend the money he 
borrowed and has had the benefit  of it. 
Im aware Mr L feels strongly  about Halifaxs conduct. But I hope  Ive explained why, on the 
information before me, up and until his final applications for an increase on 8 October  2012,  I 
think Halifaxs checks were reasonable and proportionate and their decisions to approve his 
applications before  this point were fair. In respect  of the decisions on 8 October  2012  I 
uphold his complaint and require Halifax to refund the fees and charges amounting to £274.
Ref: DRN70056783my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In respect of the decision to increase  
the overdraft on 8 October 2012  Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  should  refund Mr L 
£274 compensation for fees and charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7005678