K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Services) (JFS) was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mr M entered into a HPA with JFS in April 2017  to acquire a new car. He says that he 
experienced a number  of intermittent issues with the car and although repairs  took place, 
issues remain.
Mr M says the dealer  said it would replace the car but then said this would  only happen if he 
paid an extra amount towards  to the deposit. He says JFS offered him £200 in response to 
his complaint.
JFS says that Mr M contacted it in November 2018  (19 months after acquiring the car). It 
says it investigated  Mr Ms complaint and noted that the first issues  werent  raised until June  
2018 and repairs  were carried out and accepted  by Mr M. It says a software update took 
place in May 2017 but no fault was found  at that time. It says there was no evidence in 
regard to the other issues being raised.
It says it upheld the complaint in part offering Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the need for the June  2018 repairs. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She didnt  think the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. She said that JFS had an opportunity to repair the car but this didnt 
resolve all the issues. She thought it fair that Mr M be allowed to reject the car, have his 
deposit refunded  (along with interest) and be paid £150 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
JFS didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said it hadnt seen evidence that the car was 
faulty, that previous repairs had been unsuccessful or that any current  issue was linked to a 
previous concern. It said it would cover the cost of an independent inspection but if this 
showed the car to be working efficiently  it wouldnt accept  the request to reject the car. It 
said the inspection  could determine whether previously accepted  repairs had been 
successful or not. 
JFS also noted that although  Mr M had asked to reject the car he had continued to use it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess each complaint based  on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations 
and guidelines into consideration but my decision  is based on what I think  fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN79750382Mr M entered into HPA in April 2017  to acquire a new car. Under the regulations,  JFS can be 
held liable  if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.  As the car was new 
at acquisition it is reasonable that Mr M would expect it to be free from faults including any 
minor defects. 
An update was applied to the stop start function in May 2017. I have nothing to say that this 
was due to a fault being present at that time.  However, I note that Mr M raised further issues 
with this at a later date.
In September  2017, Mr M was in contact with the dealer about  a number of issues including 
the cars  indicator and rear parking camera. He has provided copies of emails  from that time 
showing that the car was returned  for repair on 6 October. However following this he 
contacts the dealer to say the issues with the indicator and rear parking camera remain.  The 
car was returned again later that month. I havent seen any further evidence  of these issues  
from that time although I note a separate repair was carried out in October 2017 to the 
steering gear. 
Given when these issues were raised and the repair that was undertaken I accept that there  
were issues  with the car at this time that were  more likely than not present or developing  at 
the point of supply. As Mr M acquired  a new car I wouldnt have expected  him to experience 
issues with it so soon  after acquisition. When assessing whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality, durability is a factor and in this case, as it appears a number of issues  occurred 
within the first few months, I dont think the car was sufficiently durable.
At the end of 2017, Mr M contacted the dealer  about  smoke coming from the exhaust.  I can 
see from the dealers job cards that this was investigated in June  2018.  At this time the fault 
wasnt able to be replicated but an update to the power control module was applied.  JFS 
says that at this point  Mr Ms concerns about  the media screen and central  locking system 
were investigated  and no fault codes  found.   
I note the comments about  not being  able to replicate faults  but I also accept that faults can 
be intermittent. So while I appears  certain  issues werent replicated and that a software 
update was applied, based  on the information provided it appears  that Mr M continued to 
experience issues  with the car.  
The evidence in this case is limited however, what is clear  from the emails  and the other 
information provided is that Mr M experienced a number of issues  with the car within the first 
year and a half of ownership.  The first of these were  reported within  six months of Mr M 
taking delivery of the car. While not all of the issues were able to be replicated by the dealer, 
repairs were undertaken  for some. These  repairs didnt resolve  all the issues and Mr M has 
provided videos  of issues he is still experiencing and has noted that the issues  with the on-
board system have  returned.
JFS has said that it should be allowed the opportunity to investigate  any current  issues.  
While this may have been a reasonable solution,  given the time that has passed and the 
number of opportunities that have already been provided for investigation  and repair I dont 
think it fair to require Mr M to have a further  inspection. I also think  that I have enough 
information to provide  a decision on this case.
Given the car was new at acquisition I dont think Mr M should have experienced the number 
of problems he has or had to return the car on several occasions.  I think the evidence 
Ref: DRN79750383provided suggests the car wasnt sufficiently durable and so I accept it wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality.
Because of this I find the fair resolution at this time is for Mr M to be allowed to return  the car 
and have his HPA cancelled, with nothing  further  to pay from the date Mr M accepts my 
decision, and his deposit refunded.
Mr M acquired a new car and while he has had use of it I accept there is a loss of 
expectation and inconvenience due to the issues he experienced. Because of this I agree 
with our investigators recommendation of £150  to be paid (additional to the £200 offered by 
JFS in its final response letter).
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Black Horse  Limited  (trading as Jaguar 
Financial Services) should:
1.pay Mr M the £200 compensation as detailed  in the final response  letter,  if it hasn't 
already been paid;
2.take back ownership of the vehicle and unwind the finance agreement  with nothing  
further to pay;
3.collect the vehicle  at no cost to Mr M;
4.remove any adverse information  from Mr M's credit file;
5.refund  the deposit paid (recorded as £10,782.99 in the agreement);
6.pay Mr M compensation of a further  £150  for loss of expectation  of the vehicle and 
the inconvenience of the situation.
Item 5 is subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Black Horse  Limited  (trading  as Jaguar Financial Services) considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7975038