K821x#15summary of complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Positive  Solutions  (Financial Services)  Limited gave  him unsuitable  
advice to transfer two pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  in order to invest 
in an overseas property  investment scheme  with Harlequin Property. That scheme has failed 
and Mr P has lost the pension money  he invested.  
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2010. The allegation is that Mr P was advised by an 
adviser I will call Mr H on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Mr P says Mr H was acting for Positive Solutions and its responsible for the advice  Mr H 
gave. Mr P says that was advice to transfer two of his existing pensions  to a new SIPP  in 
order to invest in a Harlequin Property investment. Positive Solutions says 
Mr H was not acting  for it and its not responsible.  
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. I said I thought  we could  consider  the 
complaint against  Positive Solutions, that it was responsible for the advice Mr H gave and 
that the advice  was unsuitable. I also explained how I thought Positive Solutions should put 
things right.  
Both parties  are represented by lawyers.  Mr P agreed with my provisional  decision. Positive 
Solutions did not. Their  lawyers said a number of things, including:
It considers my provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter of law. 
And the conclusions I drew from the case law dealing with principals and agents are 
wrong.
My provisional decision fundamentally misses that Mr H advised  Mr P without 
Positive Solutions knowledge  or authority, as he was operating on behalf  of another  
company, Tailor Made, which had nothing to do with Positive Solutions.  Further  
Positive Solutions gave no representation  to Mr P in respect of either the pension 
transfer advice  or the investment into Harlequin.
The provisional conclusion appears  to wrongly  ask whether Positive Solutions gave 
Mr H authority to transact a general  class  of acts and assuming that Positive 
Solutions did so, it has granted apparent authority.  This is not the correct  question.  
The correct question  is whether  there is ostensible authority in relation to this 
transaction. And in any event Positive  Solutions had not given Mr H authority to 
advise on pension  transfers of this type or the Harlequin investment.
None of the alleged representations  were relevant representations in the 
circumstances. 
As no relevant  representations were made the issue of reliance  is irrelevant.
Mr P cannot credibly say he relied  on Positive  Solutions as there are no documents 
linking it to the advice  unlike previous  occasions when he was advised  by Positive 
Solutions.
The evidence is that Mr P relied on Mr H because of his longstanding  relationship  
with him. This is similar to the Anderson v Sense case  where  the claimants failed to 
prove reliance.  
Mr P has said he was aware at the time of signing that Tailor Made was listed  as an 
agent. This was in the context of having  received nothing  on Positive Solutions 
headed note paper relating to the advice.
Ref: DRN78835042In the circumstances it is unfair and irrational to concluded that Mr P understood that 
Positive Solutions was providing  the advice  and that he relied on this.
A note from Mr H provided to Positive Solutions at the time Mr P first complained 
shows Mr H was not acting for Positive Solutions.
It is not the case that there is a broad test of justice as a matter of law.
The case  of Cox v Ministry of Justice is not relevant  to this complaint.
It is clear Mr H was advising  in the context of a recognisably independent  business  
(Tailor Made).
Mr H may have  been giving investment advice and he may have filled in forms, but 
these were activities which Positive Solutions prohibited, and which  were  fraudulent.
The analysis of the position, if Cox does not apply, is wrong.  In a commercial agency  
case vicarious liability adds nothing to the concept of actual and apparent  authority 
which are the governing principles.
In any event the complaint the complaint is not suitable for determination  by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and is more appropriately dealt with by the court. It is 
impossible to make fair findings on the issue of reliance without cross examination 
and disclosure.
Without prejudice to the above  points,  Positive Solutions does not agree Mr P was 
risk adverse or with the redress proposed  in the provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the evidence  and arguments both parties have  provided  on this 
complaint. Having done so I have reached  the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  
decision on 15 November 2019. Those  conclusions were:
Mr Ps complaint is about an act or omission in relation  to carrying on of the regulated  
activity of giving investment  advice. 
Positive Solutions represented  to Mr P that Mr H had authority to conduct business of 
the same  type as the business he did conduct.  And Mr P relied on those 
representations. Apparent authority therefore operated and Positive  Solutions  is 
responsible for acts Mr P complains about.
In addition, Positive Solutions  is vicariously  liable for the investment advice Mr H 
gave to Mr P. Although  he was not an employee of Positive  Solutions, he was an 
approved person  with responsibility  for carrying on Positive  Solutions business  of 
advising its customers and arranging the investments recommended.  As such he 
carried on activities as an integral part of Positive Solutions business  and had a 
sufficient relationship to Positive  Solutions for vicarious liability  to arise. Mr Hs advice  
was so closely connected to Positive Solutions  business activities as to make it just 
to hold Positive Solutions liable for it.
Positive Solutions is also liable to Mr P under section 150 of the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000.
Mr Ps complaint is therefore within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service.
Mr Hs advice was unsuitable  for Mr P.
Mr P acted  on the advice and suffered  loss as a result of it.
It is fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to compensate Mr P for that loss.
My reasons  for my conclusions  are set out in my provisional decision and below. An 
anonymised version  of my provisional  decision  (on which I have also corrected previous 
typing errors) is attached and forms part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN78835043Having considered Positive Solutions  response  to my provisional decision, I set out below 
some points by way of supplementing and explaining certain aspects of the provisional 
decision.  
apparent authority
Positive Solutions says the question is not whether  it gave Mr H authority to transact a 
general class of acts.  The question is whether Positive Solutions gave Mr H authority in 
relation to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But to answer that question, I think it is right for me to consider whether Positive 
Solutions placed Mr H in a position which would objectively  carry Positive  Solutions  
authority for Mr H to conduct business of a type he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent 
has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of 
the apparent  authority. And in Armagas, Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered  
case ostensible authority is general in character  arising when the agent  is placed in a 
position generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in 
question. 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  
of acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that Positive Solutions 
represented to Mr P that Mr H had its authority  to carry out the acts which an independent 
financial adviser would usually have authority to do  including giving investment advice on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions. 
Positive Solutions did not specifically mention pension  transfers  or Harlequin in its 
representations, but that is not determinative. So too, and clearly so, is the point that Mr H 
did not have actual authority to give the advice he gave. Mr H had Positive  Solutions 
apparent authority to act on its behalf in recommending that Mr P transfer  pensions  to a 
SIPP and invest in the Harlequin  investment, because he had Positive Solutions more 
general apparent  authority to act on its behalf  in giving them  that kind of investment advice.
who was Mr H acting  for?
Positive Solutions position is that Mr H was acting on behalf  of another company, Tailor  
Made. In my provisional decision I considered  this point and concluded Mr H acted 
throughout on behalf of Positive Solutions.  
Ref: DRN78835044In support of this point Positive Solutions provided a copy of a note from Mr H that was 
provided to it when Mr P first complained to Positive Solutions.  Positive Solutions had 
previously referred to the points made  by Mr H and I referred to them in my provisional 
decision.  
Positive Solutions also says Mr Ps admits he was aware Tailor Made  was listed  as agent 
and that it is irrational to conclude that Mr H was acting for Positive Solutions rather than 
Tailor Made  given the absence of any letters or communications on Positive Solutions 
headed note paper. 
It is the case that there is no recommendation letter on Positive Solutions note paper. But 
the absence of such a letter does not prove  either that no advice was given (as the adviser 
says) or that if any advice was given it cannot have been given on behalf of Positive 
Solutions.
While Mr H told Positive Solutions that he did not give advice, and only acted  as an 
introducer for Tailor  Made,  there is no evidence that demonstrates this, little to support it and 
much that tends to contradict it. I discussed  the evidence in my provisional decision and 
made the finding that - contrary to Mr Hs version  of events  Mr H did advise Mr P to 
transfer his pensions to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin.  
As set out in my provisional  decision  there is evidence of many  steps  taken by 
Mr H apparently as an adviser of Positive Solutions.  
There is no documentary evidence showing Mr H apparently acting on behalf of Tailor Made. 
The only reference  to Tailor Made in the documents is on the Harlequin  Property  reservation  
form. It does show  Tailor Made was an agent.  It does not clearly show Mr H acted for Tailor 
Made. And the Lazy Money slides (which were  personalised to Mr H) said that you aim to 
purchase an Overseas Commercial property  off-plan  in the Caribbean  using the unique  
discounts available to certain member  of Positive Solutions. Harlequin  is expressly  referred 
to. Nothing is said about acting for Harlequin,  or anyone else.  There  is no mention of Tailor 
Made.    
Mr P does not say anywhere in his accounts or events or in any documents  I have  seen that 
he was aware that Tailor Made was an agent  for Harlequin and that Mr H was acting for 
Tailor Made  rather than Positive Solutions or in any other capacity. 
Positive Solutions representations as to the authority of Mr H:
The points made by Positive Solutions  are largely  framed by its view that representations 
must be specific rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  Other  points are 
arguments based on conclusions I did not draw.
 
Ref: DRN78835045For example, Positive Solutions says procuring Mr Hs registration with the FSA is not a 
representation to Mr P. The rules  require such registration just as they require status  
disclosure and that Jacobs J found  in Anderson v Sense that a status  disclosure could 
never be a representation  and the same  conclusion must apply to the register. However the 
judges finding was that on the particular facts of that case, the status disclosure was not a 
representation of any kind to the effect  that [the agent] was running  the [Ponzi] scheme with 
the authority of Sense or as the agent of the Defendant  (emphasis added).  Financial 
advisers are not usually  authorised to run schemes  and that is the context in which the 
finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding of 
in Martin v Britannia Life, by Jonathan  Parker Js on apparent authority was based on the 
contents of a business card. His reasoning was a follows:
Mr and Mrs Martin   have to establish a representation made by LAS, which  was intended 
to be acted on and which was in fact acted  on by them, that Mr Sherman was authorised by 
LAS to give them financial advice concerning a remortgage  of The Brambles.
In my judgment the business card which Mr Sherman proffered at the outset of the meeting 
on 9 May 1991 was the clearest representation that he was authorised by LAS to give such 
financial advice. It may well be the case that, as Mr Burrell submitted, the unqualified use of 
the expression Financial Adviser on the business card would not have led a reasonable 
person to believe  that Mr Sherman was authorised to give financial  advice on matters wholly 
unconnected with the sale of insurance, but that is nothing to the point.  It plainly did 
represent, in my judgment, that Mr Sherman  was authorised to give advice in relation to the 
sale of insurance, including advice concerning associated or ancillary transactions: in other 
words, to give investment advice  in the sense in which  that term is used in the 1986 Act . 
In particular, it represented  that Mr Sherman was authorised by LAS to advise on the package 
of transactions which, in the event, he recommended.  
Jacobs J in Anderson  v Sense  applied Martin and endorsed the above approach. He said:
 As Martin shows, [ostensible  authority] requires a representation that there  was 
authority to give advice  of the type that was given .
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr H to advise Positive  Solutions  customers 
about investments  was part of the conduct  by which Positive Solutions held him out to the 
world in general as authorised to do that. 
Positive Solutions says if this amounts to a representation it would make Positive Solutions 
liable for anything said or done by Mr H relating to anything which might broadly amount to 
financial advice. Positive Solutions says this is an absurd proposition. But it is not what  I 
said or implied and the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson  v Sense show  how such  
matters can be applied  (and limited) in practice.  
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr H might do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to Positive Solutions customers, such  as
Mr P about  their pensions  and investments  in their pensions this was the type of business  he 
was held out as carrying on for it.  
It remains my finding that Positive Solutions did represent to Mr P through  its conduct that 
Mr H had its authority to act on its behalf in carrying on the activities complained  about.
Ref: DRN78835046reliance
Positive Solutions says there was no representation so reliance is irrelevant. I disagree. It 
goes on to say that was no reliance.  I also disagree  for the reasons  set out in my provisional 
decision.  
just that Positive  Solutions should bear the loss
 
The discussion of the justice of the case was not intended to be read as part of the test for 
apparent authority. It is a point the courts consider  as a check that they have reached the 
right conclusion. I regard  the test for apparent authority as being satisfied on the facts  in this 
complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross  check  and 
was included as the courts often include such an explanation and to be helpful  to the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make that my comment should be 
read as relating to the carrying on the controlled  function in this case, ie to the circumstances 
of this complaint  and Mr Ps losses from the advice  he complains about not all possible 
losses in any possible circumstances. 
fraud
Positive Solutions said the following when replying to my provisional decision:
Mr [H] may have been giving  investment advice and he may have filled in forms but these  
were activities which Positive Solution prohibited and which were fraudulent.

We also note that in terms of vicarious  liability it is clearly  insufficient that the principal put the 
agent in a position which gave him opportunity to behave fraudulently:  See the authorities 
summarised and applied in Frederick at [76].
Positive Solutions has not previously raised fraud as an issue in this complaint. And the 
above is all it has said.
Fraud is a serious allegation.  The more serious an allegation of misconduct the stronger  the 
evidence is required to be to establish on the balance  of probabilities that the misconduct 
occurred. In this case  there is not even a specific allegation of fraud and I cannot see that 
there is evidence on which to make a finding  of fraud.  
This is not a case in which  an adviser appropriated a customers  money for himself, nor is it 
a case in which the adviser recommended  that the customer invest in a fund managed by or 
controlled by the adviser himself. Instead,  this is simply a case in which a financial adviser 
recommended that a customer in effect  surrender existing funds and transfer the cash  to a 
SIPP to then reinvest into another investment. That is a very common activity for financial 
advisers. In this case the advice was careless.  It was negligent. It was in breach of common  
law duty of care. It was in breach of conduct rules obliging advisers to give suitable. The 
advice was not suitable for Mr P  but unsuitability does not necessarily imply fraud. And I 
make no finding that there has been  fraud.
vicarious liability
I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P complains 
about, for the reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision  though on re-reading my 
Ref: DRN78835047provisional decision I see a point I was trying  to make was not made  as clearly as I would 
like. 
Under the heading the stage two test the first sentence in the second  bullet point says:
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously  liable here, then Mr Ps ability  to obtain 
compensation would depend  on whether  the Positive Solutions Partner he dealt with 
was an employee  of Positive Solutions.
The above  does not really  help to introduce  the point I was trying  to make which is made in 
the rest of the paragraph - that in Cox the court suggested it would be unreasonable  and 
unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation to depend on whether the relevant 
worker was an employee or not.  
Moving from that specific clarification to the issue more generally, I remain  of the view that 
the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud are applicable. Those 
decisions make  it very clear that non-employment relationships can give rise to vicarious 
liability. The purpose  of the guidance contained in Cox is to define the criteria by which  a 
non-employment relationship can be judged as either capable  or incapable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability. In the present case, Mr Hs relationship  with Positive  Solutions  satisfies  
those criteria and had similarities to employment,  as I explain in my provisional decision.  It 
would seem very odd if that were to count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers of an 
agent to contract  business. Many employees are given authority, as agent, to contract 
business on their employers behalf  and Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (paragraph 1-004) 
says that the status of an agent  will usually  be either that of employee  or independent  
contractor. So it cannot have been intended  that the test in Cox is disapplied whenever there 
is an agency. 
Positive Solutions has referred to paragraph  15 of Lord Reeds judgment in Cox. It says 
Lord Reed specifically stated that nothing in his judgment applied  to the law of principal and 
agent (paragraph  15). So properly understood, the law is that Cox is not relevant to the 
present circumstances.
The argument seems  to be that Mr H is Positive Solutions agent,  which  is the opposite of 
Positive Solutions position in relation to the relevant advice. So, I take it that Positive  
Solutions position is that Mr H was not its agent, having no authority from it whether actual 
or apparent to give the relevant advice; but that I should not apply Cox, because he was its 
agent in other respects. That position seems  to me to be illogical  and probably wrong on its 
own terms.
Anyway, the basis for the argument seems to me to go well beyond what  Lord Reed actually  
said, which was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed upon a person  in respect  of the act or 
omission of another individual, because of his relationship with that individual,  and 
the connection between that relationship  and the act or omission in question.  Leaving  
aside other  areas of the law where  vicarious liability can operate, such  as partnership  
and agency (with which  this judgment  is not concerned),  the relationship is classically  
one of employment, and the connection is that the employee committed  the act or 
omission in the course of his employment:  that is to say, within the field of activities  
assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in Central Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock 
Garage and Motor  Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, or, adapting the words of Diplock LJ in 
Ref: DRN78835048Ilkiw v Samuels [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004,  in the course  of his job, considered  
broadly. That aspect of vicarious liability is fully considered by Lord Toulson JSC in 
Mohamud v Wm Morrison Supermarkets  plc [2016] AC 677.
16.  It has however  long been recognised that a relationship can give rise to vicarious 
liability even  in the absence of a contract  of employment
I think that Lord Reed  is there recognising that aside from cases where vicarious liability  is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider).   I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
I recognise in my provisional  decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
I also want to make clear that I do not say that the fact Positive Solutions put Mr H in a 
position which gave  him the opportunity to make errors is in itself sufficient to make Positive 
Solutions vicariously liable for his conduct.  But I am saying that, after taking  the whole of the 
evidence into account, I am satisfied  that Positive  Solutions is vicariously liable for the 
actions of Mr H in this complaint.
I accept that Mr H advised Mr P without  Positive Solutions knowledge or authority. But I do 
not agree  that he was advising in the context of a recognisably independent  business   
Tailor Made.  The evidence does  not show that Mr P was acting for Tailor Made. The 
documentary evidence  shows  Mr H, while seemingly acting for Positive Solutions, 
recommended the transfer of pensions to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin  for whom Tailor 
Made acted  as agent.   
If Mr Hs conduct  had been fraudulent, then much of the case  law I have  quoted in relation  to 
vicarious liability would not apply. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think it was 
fraudulent. And even  if it was, or even if the test in Cox does not apply for some other 
reason, Positive  Solutions would still be responsible for the acts complained of by reason of 
apparent authority and statutory responsibility.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Taking everything into account,  Im still satisfied section 150 FSMA provides an alternative 
route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting  provision relating to regulatory rules 
which were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a 
statutory right to damages for breaches of the Regulators rules and this can apply 
even where theres no relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I would 
not expect the absence  of apparent authority  to be decisive.
Ref: DRN78835049Instead the way FSMA  is framed and has been  interpreted by the Regulator seems  
to analyse the question  of a firms responsibility  for its personnel/contractors (if they 
arent appointed  representatives)  according  to the question of whose  business  is 
being carried on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to 
the Cox v Ministry of Justice test. Its not done  according to the law of 
agency/ostensible authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) guidance which directly addresses  the question  of regulatory responsibility  for 
an authorised persons delegated  activities. It deals with the question of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory purposes by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains that employees and agents wont breach  the 
general prohibition  if the employee/agent is doing  no more than carrying  on the 
business of their employer/principal   as opposed  to carrying  on their own business. 
And it describes  relevant factors for deciding whose business is being carried  on 
(PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).  
FSA rules and now FCA rules  control how firms carry on regulated  and other 
activities, including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a 
firm has breached a rule (including  for section 150 FSMA  purposes) involves the 
same question  as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which was carrying  
on the relevant  activity  as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying on 
the activity as part of its own business.
So the relevant question  under section 150 FSMA  is which  partys business  (i.e. 
Positive Solutions or Mr Hs) was being carried  on. That question is similar to the test 
in Cox v Ministry of Justice but it isnt limited by whether there  was actual  or 
ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance  explains how it applies, as an 
example, in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large 
firms often deal with their customers through self-employed  agents,  who call on 
customers at their homes to make  loans and collect payments on which they earn 
commission. PERG 2.3.11 states:
Although the overall relationship between a home collected credit provider (the 
principal firm) and a person providing the services(the individual) will need to be 
taken into account, meeting  the following  criteria  is likely to mean  that the individual is 
carrying on the business of the principal firm (as its agent)  and not his own, meaning 
that the individual does not require authorisation or to be exempt:
(1)the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
(2)the individual only works for one principal firm;
(3)the principal firm has a permission  from the FCA for every activity  the 
individual is carrying on for which the principal firm would need 
permission if it was carrying on the activity itself;
(4)the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to control 
the individual;
Ref: DRN788350410(6)the principal firm accepts full responsibility for the conduct  of the 
individual when the individual  is acting on the principal firms behalf in the 
course of its business; and
(7)the individual makes  clear to customers that it is representing a principal 
firm as its agent and the name of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Mr H and Positive  Solutions:
oPositive Solutions had appointed Mr H as an agent.
oThe FCA register suggests  Mr H wasnt an approved person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPositive Solutions had permission  for the activities carried on by Mr H that 
needed permission.
oThe agreement between Positive Solutions  and Mr H set out a number of 
measures for Positive Solutions to control Mr H.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between Positive  Solutions  and Mr H said:
The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and 
representations of the Registered Individual in the course of carrying  
out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the course of 
performance of the duties  hereby contracted
oIm satisfied  Mr H caused Mr P to believe  he was representing  Positive 
Solutions through his words and conduct  such as the registration as the 
servicing adviser for the existing pensions, the application for the SIPP and 
the presentation slides   all refer to Positive Solutions.  
So, looking  at whose  business Mr H was carrying on in this case  when he dealt with Mr P, I 
still think it was Positive  Solutions business and not his own or Tailor Mades. And I think my 
finding that Positive Solutions is liable under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained 
about is in line with how FSMA and the rules are intended to operate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that under section 150 FSMA Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
suitability for determination by an ombudsman
When Mr P referred his complaint to the ombudsman service, our rules said (at DISP 
3.3.4R):
The Ombudsman  may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if [she]  
considers that:  
(10) it would be more  suitable for the subject  matter of the complaint to be dealt with 
by a court, arbitration or another complaints  scheme.
Ref: DRN788350411I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes that it would be more suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and Positive Solutions is right to say that this 
particular complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason why that 
prevents me from considering the matter.
Positive Solutions has suggested that it would be impossible for me to make fair findings  on 
the issue of reliance without disclosure. But it would be very unusual for any party  to have 
contemporaneous documents which identified the statements on which they relied,  and so I 
dont think the courts power to order disclosure of documents would be of any assistance 
here. In any event, I have  no reason to suspect  that either of the parties  have failed to 
disclose relevant evidence.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. I therefore decline to exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint.
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties 
to take part in a hearing.
Positive Solutions hasnt  requested a hearing as such but Im aware it has on other similar 
complaints. Ive therefore thought about  this point in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint Im satisfied  I can fairly determine the matter without a hearing. In particular, I 
note:
The events complained of happened  around ten years ago and memories inevitably 
fade. Im satisfied I can reach  a fair outcome using  all the available evidence and Im 
not persuaded hearing oral evidence  would assist me.
Positive Solutions clearly believes Ive misunderstood the law and its set out its 
position clearly in writing.
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (Financial Ombudsman Service v Heather  Moor & Edgecomb Ltd [2008] 
EWCA Civ 643).
merits
I have considered all the evidence  and arguments in order to decided  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I did not make the finding that Mr P was risk averse. I said that Mr P said he was relatively 
risk averse. I did make the finding  that the Harlequin investment too high risk for Mr P and 
Positive Solutions has not really disputed that. In any event  it remains  my view for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN788350412It also remains my view that with suitable  advice Mr P would not have moved  his pensions. 
The fact that he had an interest in doing something with his pension does not mean it is what  
he would  have done with suitable advice. While  each case is different many investors, when 
suitably advised,  tend to take less investment risk as retirement  approaches not more.  And 
moving investments  around inevitably involves costs which may not be easily recovered over 
a shorter term.
Positive Solutions says it requires evidence that Mr P lost the whole of the investment and 
received no returns from it. My conclusion that Mr P has lost the whole of the investment  and 
received no returns from it is based  on my knowledge of these investments and the fact 
building work  was never completed.
The problems with Harlequin are well publicised. I think its highly unlikely Mr P has received 
any returns or will receive a return. 
Whether Mr P has or has not suffered a total loss, this will be accounted  for in the redress 
formula below.
fair compensation
Im satisfied that a fair outcome would be for Positive Solutions  to put Mr P, as far as 
possible, into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Im satisfied its 
most likely he wouldnt  have moved  his pensions if everything had happened  as it should 
have.
Where I uphold  a complaint (in full or part), I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000,  plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate.  If I consider that fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I may recommend the financial business  to pay the balance.
This recommendation wont  be part of my determination or award. It wont  bind the financial 
business. Itd be unlikely that Mr P could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to consider getting independent advice before deciding whether to 
accept my decision.
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Positive  Solutions  must:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Ps transferred pensions  as at the date of my 
final decision  had they not been transferred  to the SIPP.  
Positive Solutions should ask those pension providers to calculate the notional  transfer  
values they would have applied as at the date of this decision had Mr P not transferred his 
pensions but instead remained invested  in those pensions.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional values then the FTSE  WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That is a mixed index that is likely to be 
a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have been achieved from pension  funds 
with the original providers or reasonable alternatives.  But, as mentioned, this is a way of 
dealing with any difficulties not because I say the pensions would or should have been 
invested in, or exactly in line with, that index.
Ref: DRN7883504132. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP (attributable to the pensions  transferred 
to it on Positive Solutions advice) at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. Credit  should not be given  in the calculation for the value in the pension 
attributable to the third pension transferred into the SIPP  later.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer  values are increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ps SIPP, Positive  Solutions  should pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr P. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr P is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr P had been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional  allowance should  be applied  
to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr P to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Positive Solutions given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair 
if Mr P has to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Positive Solutions should take over the Harlequin investment to allow  the SIPP  to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Mr P back in the position he would  have been  in. But 
as I understand  it, the ownership  of the Harlequin  investment cant  currently  be transferred. 
Its likely  that will change at some point,  but I dont know when that will be  there are a 
number of uncertainties.
So, to provide certainty to both parties,  I think its fair that Positive Solutions pays 
Mr P an upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees) or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. Subject to what I say about maximum awards below, in return  for the compensation set out 
above, Positive Solutions may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to give it the net amount 
of any payment he may receive from the investment in that five year period, as well as any 
other payment he may receive from any party as a result of the investment. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount they may receive. Positive  
Solutions will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr P to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by my decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Positive Solutions  wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an 
undertaking for any future  payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further 
Ref: DRN788350414future SIPP fees. If Positive  Solutions fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr P should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed.
5. Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr P will have been caused significant  upset  by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
loss of, in effect,  all of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate  
for that upset.
If Positive Solutions doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days of being  informed  that 
Mr P has accepted my decision, interest,  at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair 
compensation payable shall be paid from the date of my decision to the date of payment.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive  Solutions  deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr P how much  has been taken off. Positive  Solutions  should 
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Mr Ps Harlequin investment was a deposit. There are therefore more  parts  of the contract 
for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent  been paid yet. No loss has 
been suffered  yet for these  parts  of the contract, so it isnt being compensated for here. But 
the loss may still occur. If the property is completed, Harlequin could still require those 
payments to be made. I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. But Mr P needs to 
understand that this is possible,  and he wont  be able to bring a further complaint to us if the 
contract is called  upon.
my final decision
determination and award: my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against  
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd and require Positive  Solutions  (Financial 
Services) Ltd to carry out the steps  specified in the fair compensation section above  up to 
a maximum financial effect of £150,000, plus any interest.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd 
accepts the recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, it should have the 
option of taking the undertaking referred to above.  If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd does not accept  the recommendation to pay the full 
amount, any undertaking should allow Mr P to retain all rights  to the difference between  
£150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
recommendation: if the financial effect  of the award  exceeds £150,000, I recommend that 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd still carry out in full the steps Ive specified  plus 
pay interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN788350415anonymised version  of provisional decision
summary of complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Positive  Solutions  (Financial Services)  Limited gave  him unsuitable  
advice to transfer two pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  in order to invest 
in an overseas property  investment scheme  with Harlequin Property. That scheme has failed 
and Mr P has lost the pension money  he invested.  
  
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2010. The allegation is that Mr P was advised by Mr H on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions.
Mr P says he had been dealing  with Mr H from about  2001. Mr H had been  with other firms  
before joining Positive  Solutions in late 2004. Mr P had dealt with Mr H at Positive Solutions 
from 2005.   (He also says Positive Solutions wrote to him when Mr H retired  in 2012 to tell 
him the name  of the new Positive Solutions adviser who would be looking after his financial 
needs.)
The business model followed by Positive  Solutions is that it is an independent financial 
adviser firm authorised by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (later the Financial 
Conduct Authority). It gave advice  through registered individuals  who were  referred  to as 
Partners. The Partners were self-employed  agents of Positive Solutions not employees. Nor 
were Partners appointed  representatives under s.39 of the Financial Services  and Markets  
Act 2000 (FSMA).
So when a client  was doing business  with a registered individual  of Positive Solutions (acting 
in that capacity)  they were doing business  with Positive Solutions  they were a client of 
Positive Solutions.
Mr H was a Partner of Positive Solutions   a registered individual who was an agent of 
Positive Solutions. He used the trading style [or trading  name] which was approved by 
Positive Solutions and registered as trading style for Positive Solutions with the FSA 
between 2005  and 2012.
Mr P had dealings with Mr H acting as a Partner  of Positive Solutions  and there  is no dispute 
about those earlier dealings. The dispute is about events in 2010.  There were  further  
dealings then. Mr P says Mr H was acting for Positive Solutions and its responsible for the 
advice Mr H gave. Mr P says that was advice to transfer two of his existing pensions to a 
new SIPP  in order to invest in a Harlequin Property  investment. Positive  Solutions  says 
Mr H was not acting  for it and its not responsible.  
Later in 2012  Mr P became  the client of a different  IFA firm. After that new IFA had been  
appointed Mr P transferred a further pension (with  a transfer value of about £23,000) into the 
SIPP and paid a fee of £1,000 out of the SIPP  to that IFA.
my provisional findings - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide whether the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can consider Mr Ps complaint.  
Ref: DRN788350416the basis for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether we have jurisdiction  to consider this complaint  on the basis  of our 
jurisdiction rules (referred to as the DISP rules), including the relevant law they are based  on 
or incorporate, based on the relevant facts of the complaint which  I must decide  on the 
balance of probability when in dispute.   
I cannot decide the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be determined  if we 
have jurisdiction to consider it.
the compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider  a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates  to an act or omission by a firm  in the carrying on of one 
or more  listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions is a 
firm under  our rules, and it does not dispute that. 
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of 
activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business  of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted  responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:   
1.Were the acts about which Mr P complains  done in the carrying  on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd responsible for 
those acts?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account FSMA, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Regulated  
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook section of the 
FSA Handbook (COBS).
regulated activities
An activity  is a regulated activity if it is an activity  of a specified kind that is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment of a specified kind,  unless otherwise specified 
(section 22, FSMA).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of 
buying or selling a particular investment which is a security or a relevant  investment (article 
53 RAO), and making  arrangements for another person  to buy or sell or subscribe for a 
security or relevant investment (article  25 RAO).  
Ref: DRN788350417the general prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or 
purport to do so, unless they are either  an authorised person or an exempt  person. This is 
known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about, Positive  Solutions was an authorised  person 
(also referred to as a firm  in regulators rules). That means it could carry out regulated 
activities without being in breach of the general  prohibition.
Mr H was neither an authorised person  nor exempt  from authorisation. That means that if 
Mr H had carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf by way of business, he would 
have been in breach of the general prohibition. 
the approved  persons regime
The approved persons  regime is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers 
by ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry out certain  functions 
within the financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1) An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no person  performs 
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a 
controlled function. 
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr H to be approved by the FSA to perform  the controlled  
functions CF 22 Investment Adviser (Trainee) , CF 21 Investment Adviser  and 
CF30 Customer between 2004  and 2011  in relation to regulated activities  carried on by 
Positive Solutions. (CF30 is the function  of advising on investments.) 
The approved persons  regime does  not depend on an individuals employment status. 
Employees can be approved persons, as can non-employees like Mr H.  
breach of statutory  duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to 
contravention of specific rules made  by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such rule in place  at the time of the events Mr P complains about was COBS  9.2.1(1)R, 
which said:
Ref: DRN788350418A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation  is suitable  
for its client.
Mr P was a private person  under section 150(1)  of FSMA  and a private customer under COB 
5.3.5R. Broadly, those  terms  covered all natural persons  subject to some exceptions. I am 
satisfied that no exceptions applied to Mr P  he was not a firm, and he was not carrying out 
any regulated activities  by way of business. He was simply an ordinary consumer.
That means that if Mr P suffered a loss as a result  of a rule breached  by Positive  Solutions,  
he would  have a right of action  against  Positive Solutions for breach of statutory duty. He 
would have no such right against Mr H, because he was not a firm.
what is the complaint?
In March 2012 Mr P wrote  to Positive Solutions. His letter included:
For several years prior to 2012 I was a customer of your service and in particular was 
advised by [Mr H]
In 2010, I was advised  by [Mr H] to transfer 2 deferred pensions from Scottish  Life and Aviva 
into a SIPP that was primarily linked  to the purchase of a Harlequin Dominican Republic 
property (Two Rivers). The SIPP trustees are Guardian
As a result  of recent adverse media interest and serious  investor  concerns  concerning the 
viability of this investment   linked  to recent warning  to IFAs from the FSA (concerning advice 
provided to clients in respect of this type of investment), I decided to re-appraise this worrying 
situation and look back at the reason why the investment advice I originally received  now 
looks unfortunately so misplaced and non-transparent
I feel that I have been let down and on reflection, believe that true due diligence could not 
have been carried out by those concerned, which in turn would have foreseen  some of the 
fundamental problems now affecting this investment and could have contributed to a more  
unenthusiastic/realistic/pragmatic view of the Harlequin  model
In March 2013 solicitors  acting for Mr P wrote to Positive Solutions.  The letter  included:
Mr [P] has grave  concerns regarding  the advice  provided  to him by Mr [H] when he [was] with 
your company. The advice in question relates to his pension and subsequent investment in 
the Harlequin  Property  Fund.  We consider this advice to be negligent and to have caused Mr 
P considerable losses.
The letter also included:
We are also writing to Tailormade SIPP Limited and Tailormade Investment  Limited who we 
understand acted as agent  in connection with the investment.
A few months later Mr P changed lawyers and the new lawyers wrote to Positive  Solutions  in 
April 2013. Their letter included:
Basis of Claim
Our client was advised  by you to transfer various  pensions  to a SIPP with GuardianYour 
consultant was fully aware that our client was considering investing in Harlequin  Property 
once the pension transfer was complete. Indeed, the whole process was driven toward  that 
outcome. There is reference to the SIPP  being invested  into Caribbean property. The 
reference to monies being invested into overseas property relates  to Harlequin.
Ref: DRN788350419Suitability 
1.There is no assessment  of the suitability  of the Harlequin property for our client.
2.There is no assessment  of the risks of the Harlequin  investment.
3.If the advice were suitable (which we believe it is not), the fund is over exposed  to this 
type of investment in any event.
4.The benefits of the ceding scheme have not been replaced.
In July 2013 the solicitors submitted a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The 
complaint form includes  a box for a summary of the complaint. The words  Please see 
complaint letter were  added in that box.
In my view the complaint  is therefore  about  the suitability of advice to transfer existing 
pensions to a SIPP in order to invest in the Harlequin Property investment.
were the acts Mr P complains  about done  in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
I understand that Positive Solutions  does not deny that a regulated activity took place. It 
objects to my consideration of this complaint because it says it was not responsible  for any 
advice Mr P received   not because it says he did not receive advice at all. But I include this 
point, for completeness.
Mr P has described the pensions he transferred  away from as deferred occupational  
pensions. The rights under the trusts  of an occupational pension  scheme  were  not at that 
time investments under FSMA  2000,  though personal pensions  were. However advising a 
consumer to transfer or switch their rights  in a pension  whether an occupational  pension  or 
a personal pension  to a SIPP is a regulated activity since  it involves the setting up of a 
personal pension  (the SIPP) and the transferring  of rights into it. And advice on investing 
funds within  a SIPP is also a regulated  activity.
was Positive  Solutions responsible for the acts Mr P complains about?
Positive Solutions position is that Mr H was its agent. But that he was not authorised to:
advise on the SIPP as it was not an approved  product
advise on Harlequin as it was not an approved product
advise on the sale of existing pension investments  as he was only authorised to 
introduce new applications for new approved  investments.
Positive Solutions has also said:
The adviser has informed  us that he made it very clear to the client,  that he was personally 
unable to provide any advice on this type of investment and that there was no regulated sales 
process at Positive  Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd which would accommodate this type of 
business. He furthermore  informed the client that it was unlikely that an investment within  this 
environment would [be] covered by the FSCS and highlighted that he was only able to act as 
an Introducer via company entitled Overseas Property Angels who in turn acted as a 
conduit to Tailor-Made Alternative Investments who arranged the proposed property 
purchase.
So Positive Solutions does therefore  seem to dispute that there was any advice to invest in 
Harlequin. It is not clear  that it disputes  that any advice was given to transfer the existing  
pensions to a SIPP.
Ref: DRN788350420Mr Ps position is that he was advised by Mr H on behalf of Positive Solutions to invest in 
Harlequin and to transfer his pensions to a Guardian SIPP in order to do it. 
Mr P has said:
In early 2010  we had a visit from [Mr H] and due to the relationship that we had built up over 
the years had a very amicable conversation, where he informed us that he was considering 
leaving financial services  to build his own English language teaching business. At that time (I 
believe due to funding  set up costs) he wasnt sure when  that would  actually happen but 
regardless I would still be looked after by Positive Solutions when the time came.
He then proceeded to discuss with me alternatives to my then existing  Positive Solutions  
investments and to bring up the subject of Harlequin  Property and the investment 
opportunities that were being made available.  I listened to what  was being  said but initially 
showed considerable reluctance to what was being recommended. However [Mr H] persisted 
and told me that due to his personal  investigations and attendance at various Harlequin 
seminars he had carried out his own assessment of the situation and was convinced that the 
Harlequin model was a means whereby a respectable return could be made  by those who 
decided to invest.
Over the next month I queried  and raised  many questions regarding  the investment, (this is 
on record) but [Mr H] proceeded to become  more insistent that the investment was genuine 
and a not to be missed  opportunity. I was bombarded with emails and presented with 
literature advocating  that the first in would benefit considerably from early  involvement. I was 
then also told that by transferring pension  monies  into a SIPP, this in effect would  pay initial 
deposits with subsequent payments being met by expected returns  from the investments.
[Mr H] was very good and only because he was answering the questions I was raising in a 
relatively articulate and knowledgeable manner along with the years of trust and loyalty my 
wife and self had built up with him I gave  the go ahead  to proceed  with the transfer of 
pensions and subsequent  investment  via the arranged  SIPP. He also confirmed to me as part 
of his presentation that many other clients of his (and I assume Positive Solutions) had 
accepted his advice prior to me making  my own decision. 
By the end of 2011 as the Harlequin problems  started to become more  apparent, 
[Mr H] became de-registered as an IFA and he left Positive Solutions  to pursue his own 
language business  concerns  funding set up costs had obviously been found
Mr P has also said:
Our IFA ([Mr H]) had given us no previous  cause  to doubt his knowledge and expertise in 
investment matters. By virtue of the fact that retirement was quickly creeping up on me, I 
believed that I had to try and supplement  my eventual modest retirement  income as best as 
possible. However,  I had always been risk adverse  in my financial dealings  and in no way 
would I have  considered such a risky investment  as Harlequin had we not had considerable 
(possibly nave) trust in our longstanding IFA (and the perceived sound advice that was 
always expected from him). He could not extol the virtues  of Harlequins  business  model 
enough and insisted that it was an opportunity not to miss. 
Mr P has also provided a copy of a presentation by Mr H titled  Retirement Planning - The 
Lazy Money Approach.  One of the slides says:
How does it work?
Ref: DRN788350421You aim to purchase an Overseas Commercial Property off-plan in the Caribbean using  the 
unique discounts  available to certain members of Positive Solutions.
Use £45000 of your pension funds to provide  a 30% deposit
Another slide said:
Stage 2
Arrange to transfer your existing Personal Pensions to a SIPP that allows you to invest in 
Overseas commercial  property.  This will be through a specialist provider. There  are not many 
but I will arrange this.
And the next slide said:
Stage 3
When the funds are transferred to the SIPP you will receive the contracts from Harlequin  and 
you pay the 30% deposit  from your pension fund - ie the full £45000
Mr P has said he did not receive  a terms of business  agreement  from Mr H on behalf of 
Positive Solutions in relation to the disputed advice. He has also said he had not heard of 
Overseas Property Angels when asked by our adjudicator. And he said the only time he 
heard of Tailor  Made was when he saw the name  on one of the forms he signed. The 
property reservation  form was signed by Marcus James/Tailor Made and a Harlequin 
Representative  Mr P says he just thought Mr H had arranged  the investment with them.   
Looking at the arguments put forward, it is not disputed that:
 
1.A SIPP was set up for Mr P with Guardian  in June 2010.
2.Mr P had pension arrangements with Scottish Life and with Aviva and those pensions 
were transferred to the SIPP in July 2010. The combined value transferred in was 
around £59,000.
3.A payment was made out of the SIPP in August 2010 of £54,000 in respect of an 
investment with Harlequin called Two Rivers in the Dominican Republic.
I will refer to each of these points in more detail  below.
With regard to point  numbered 1 above:
The slides quoted  above show Mr H recommended  the use of a SIPP  for the 
investment and that he would select or arrange a specialist  SIPP provider.
Mr P has provided notes (on un-headed note paper) which  he has explained are 
questions from him to Mr H on which Mr H has inserted his replies to the questions 
asked. The document is headed  Harlequin Property Investments Comments  and 
Questions. The documents begins  as follows with Mr Hs comments in capital 
letters:
Comment
1.My existing deferred  pensions would be transferred to a SIPP
Questions:
a.Are existing pension fund providers  retained within  the SIPP (i.e. Aviva & Scottish  
Life)?
NONE OF THE MAJOR INSURANCE COMPANIES ACCEPT OVERSEAS  
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY SO YOU HAVE TO TRANSFER TO A SPECIALIST SIPP 
PROVIDER. THERE  ARE AROUND 10 OR SO WHO WILL DO THIS.  I USE GUARDIAN 
Ref: DRN788350422FROM BLACKBURN   
Guardian explained to our adjudicator  that the authorised  IFA who established the 
SIPP was Mr H at Positive  Solutions. And that it did not receive  any instructions to 
pay out from the SIPP in respect  of commission or fees when it was set up. So no 
fees were paid by it to Positive  Solutions  or anyone else.
Guardian also provided a letter dated 10 June 2010 from Mr H on Positive Solutions 
note paper in which he sent the SIPP application form and supporting documents  to 
Guardian.  
The SIPP application  form was completed  with the firm name Positive Solutions with 
Mr H as the contact. His Positive  Solutions  address and email  address were given.
There was also a box on the form headed  Introducer.  [The]  the trading  style 
registered for Positive Solutions used by Mr H was entered. Mr H was recorded as 
the contact and the words as above for his contact  address.
As part of the application process  an Identity  Verification Certificate  was completed 
for Mr P. It was signed by Mr H giving his firm name as Positive  Solutions and he 
quoted its FSA number.  The form was also stamped by Mr H using a Positive 
Solutions stamp.
On 4 August  2010 Guardian  wrote  to Mr P to thank him for his application received 
from his financial adviser Positive Solutions. 
 With regard to point  numbered 2:
It is clear from the slides referred  to above that the strategy was to transfer 
Mr Ps pensions  to the SIPP.
Mr P has provided a copy of a signed  transfer of servicing  request forms relating to 
the Scottish Life pension  from April 2010. The form said Mr P wanted the 
responsibility for the future servicing  of the plans  transferred  to the following 
company:  [Mr  H] at Positive  Solutions.  The form asked  the product provider to 
notify Positive Solutions when  the transfer had been completed and provide an up to 
date valuation report for its records.  
Mr P has provided a copy of an unsigned version of the same form relating to Aviva.
The letter from Positive Solutions to Guardian  enclosing the application form and 
other documents included information obtained  from Scottish  Life and Aviva.
With regard to point  numbered 3:
Mr P says whilst  visiting him in early 2010 to discuss his financial position,  
Mr H Strongly  advised me to consider investing  in the Harlequin Property Fund  via a 
SIPP that he could  arrange.
The presentation contained  in the slides referred  to above are clear in encouraging 
Mr P to use his pensions to invest in Harlequin  and that the investment had the 
benefit of discounts  available to certain members  of Positive Solutions.  
Mr P has provided copies of emails  from Mr H from his Positive Solutions email 
address on which  he discusses the Harlequin  investment. He has also provided 
documents on which he asked various  questions about the investment and, he says,  
answers were given by Mr H.
These emails start in April 2010 when Mr H provided details of the Harlequin 
investment following  an earlier  meeting.  There  is an email  from Mr H when he 
provided some last-minute information  about tax in the Dominican Republic before he 
sent the Harlequin investment application.  And there is an email  in August confirming 
the funds have been transferred from the pension to Harlequin.  These  were  all from 
Ref: DRN788350423Mr H referring  to himself as an IFA with Positive Solutions.  There is no reference  to 
Tailor Made  or Overseas Property Angels in those emails.
The SIPP application  form included a box numbered  16 and headed Intended  
Activity of SIPP and timeframe for investment (brief description). The following 
words were  written in that box: To purchase a property  overseas commercial in 
conjunction with Harlequin.
It is my view that there  is clear evidence to support Mr Ps claim that Mr H advised him to 
transfer his existing pensions to a SIPP to invest in the Harlequin investment. This was all 
one matter that Mr H recommended and then arranged.
Positive Solutions says the agent was not authorised to give such advice on its behalf
The finding  that Mr H gave the disputed  advice is not the end of the matter. Positive 
Solutions point  is that if Mr H did give advice he was not doing so in his capacity as a 
registered individual (or agent) of Positive Solutions.
what was the adviser authorised to do by Positive  Solutions?
Agency is a relationship between two parties  where  they agree that one will act on behalf  of 
the other so as to affect its relations  with third parties. The one on whose behalf acts are to 
be done is called the principal. The one who is to act is called the agent. In other words, the 
principal authorises the agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation  of that authority can take a number of forms.  And it is usual for the authority to 
be limited in nature.  The law recognises different  forms  of agency. 
In this case there is a written agency agreement which gives  express actual authority to 
Mr H.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied  authority to do what  is necessary for, or 
ordinarily incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr H said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined  as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation  paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce 
applications for new contracts for Positive Solutions  approved products.  
Ref: DRN788350424However the agency agreement is a contract and, as always,  the whole contract  has to be 
considered in order to interpret  its meaning. Other relevant or potentially relevant clauses 
include:
Paragraph 2.4:
The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be strictly that of 
principal and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer and employee. The 
Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations of the Registered 
Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the 
course of performance  of duties hereby  contracted,  but only to the extent that it would be 
responsible at common law or by virtue of any statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue 
of the Rules of any organisation (including  FSA) of which the Company is member  for the 
time being. In particular, the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual  
which exceed  the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement or by fraudulent  
acts of the Registered Individual  or the Registered Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
This clause  required  a Registered  Individual to be registered with the FSA.  
Paragraph 4.3:
This required the Registered Individual to conduct business  on Positive Solutions 
terms of business. 
Paragraph 10.1:
This clause  required  the Registered Induvial  to conduct himself in adherence to the 
FSA rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
This clause  prohibited the Registered  Induvial from procuring persons to enter into 
agreement otherwise than through Positive  Solutions agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered Individual  shall be treated  as an act or omission of the 
Company. It is therefore imperative  that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures manuals.
Paragraph 14:
Under this section the Registered Individual agreed  to indemnify Positive Solutions if 
it incurred and claims or liability in respect  of the Registered Individuals acts or 
omissions. 
So amongst  other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients  
in accordance with Positive Solutions  terms of business and the registered individual  is 
required to carry on the business in accordance with the FSAs rules  and Positive Solutions 
procedures manual. 
Ref: DRN788350425The terms of business document  that the agent  is required to give to the client  includes the 
following:
what this document contains and what it means to you
I am an IFA partner of Positive Solutions. What this means to my clients is that they have the 
dual benefits of local, knowledgeable advice, backed by one of the largest IFA organisations 
in the UK. This means I can tailor my advice  and offer products and services in a more 
effective and efficient manner for all concerned. The common aim of all associated  with 
Positive Solutions is to help clients understand, protect,  and increase their assets. This 
document will outline the service I am able to offer you.

terms of business
WE ARE BOUND  BY THE RULES OF THE FSA
When we have arranged any contract or contracts  for which you have given  us instructions, 
we will not give you any further advice  unless you request it, although we will be glad to 
advise you at any time of you ask us to do so
WE OFFER  INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVICE, though unlikely occasions can arise when 
we, or one of our other customers, will have some form of interest in the business which we 
are transacting for you. If this happens,  or we become aware that our interest or those of one 
of our other customers conflict with your interest, we will inform you in writing and obtain your 
consent before we carry out your instructions.
partnership code
Partnership Code: positivesolutions  purpose is To help our clients, Understand,  Protect and 
Increase their Assets.
Because of our shared values, we call our IFAs partners, and this also refers  to staff and 
directors. As a Private  Client the service  you can expect from me is summarised below.
As a positivesolutions Partner I will:
1. Give impartial, independent financial advice.
2. Act on your behalf at all times, not on behalf of any other product or service provider. I am 
your adviser  and must always put you first.
3. Be honest and transparent in my dealings with you.
4. Supply you with written  Terms of Business  before engaging in any advice  for you.
5. Provide for you, in writing,  a report or letter explaining the reasons for my 
recommendations.
6. Be qualified as an experienced financial planner, which  means I have passed  (as a 
minimum) the Chartered Insurance Institutes full Financial Planning  Certificate  
examination...
The terms of business document  included a key facts about our investment and pension  
service document. It included:
1. The Financial  Services Authority (FSA)
The FSA is the independent watchdog that regulates financial services. It requires us to give 
you this document. Use this information to decide if our services are right for you.
2. Whose  products do we offer?
oWe offer products from the whole market. [This option was ticked]
oWe offer products from a limited  number of companies.
Ref: DRN788350426oWe only offer products from a single group of companies.
3. Which service  will we provide you with?
oWe will advise you and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed your 
needs. [This option was ticked]
oYou will not receive advice or a recommendation  from us. We ask some questions  to 
narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details  on. You will need to 
make your own choice about how to proceed.
oWe will provide basic advice on a limited range of stakeholder products and in order 
to do this we ask some questions about your income, savings and other 
circumstances but we will not
conduct a full assessment of your needs;
offer advice on whether  a non-stakeholder product  may be more  suitable.
 
As mentioned above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency agreement Mr H was registered on the FSA register.  It showed  
that he was approved to perform the controlled function CF30  Customer with Positive 
Solutions 
The Positive Solutions Compliance  Manual  recorded that Positive Solutions was authorised 
to advise on pension  transfers and opt outs and advise on investments (amongst other  
things).
It is therefore clear to me, taking all the above into account, that  subject to conditions   
Mr H was appointed  to advise on investments on behalf of Positive Solution and not just to 
introduce applications for new policies.
Registered individuals such as Mr H were appointed as, and held out by Positive Solutions 
as, independent financial advisers able to advise on investments as authorised and 
regulated by the FSA.  That advice process is, and is required to be, more than just a sales 
job.  
Advising a person in their capacity as an investor  or potential investor on the merits of their 
buying or selling an investment covered by the FSMA 2000 is a regulated  activity  under 
Article 53 of the Regulated Activities  Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain regulated activities including advising on investments is itself a 
regulated activity (under  Article 64).
And arranging  deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal  offence unless the 
person doing so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant here).  Positive Solutions 
was authorised by the FSA to carry on all of those activities at the time of the disputed  
advice. And it was subject  to the FSAs rules when carrying on those activities.
Without going into too much detail, giving compliant investment advice  involves getting  to 
know a client and reviewing their financial position, their objectives, attitude  to risk etc and 
giving advice that is suitable to those circumstances. In broad terms this process  is set out in 
COBS 9.2 and the Positive Solutions  Compliance Manual and Pensions Handbook.  
When Positive Solutions agrees to give investment advice (which  it gives  through its 
registered individuals) it cannot know at the outset what advice it will give.  First Positive  
Ref: DRN788350427Solutions (through its registered individual) must assess  the clients current financial  
position, objectives, attitude to risk and so on. When it has done that, suitable investment 
advice from Positive Solutions (given  through its registered individual)  might, depending on 
the circumstances discovered, be:
1.Invest money that is not currently invested  in a new plan approved  by Positive 
Solutions.
2.Sell an existing investment and buy a new plan approved by Positive Solutions 
because it is in the clients best interest  to sell and to buy.
3.Do not sell an existing  investment  to buy a new plan approved by Positive Solutions 
because it is not in the clients  interest  to sell and to buy.  
4.Do not buy a particular approved Positive Solutions investment  the client is interested 
in because it is not suitable for the client (because it is too high risk or not currently  
affordable for example)  and so not in the clients best interest to buy.
Each one of these  possible scenarios involves regulated  investment  advice  by Positive 
Solutions (given through the registered  individual)  and, as I have said, Positive Solutions,  
does not know  which of those or other  possible scenarios will play out at the start of the 
advice process. And three of those  scenarios  involve more  than introducing new applications  
for new plans. And the second  and third might involve advising on the merits of selling plans 
Positive Solutions has not approved.
If a Positive  Solutions registered individual was only authorised  by Positive Solutions to 
introduce applications for new plans, possible scenarios 2, 3 and 4 would seem to involve 
the registered individual acting unlawfully. So this possible  restricted interpretation of the 
authority given by Positive Solutions  to its registered individual cant  be right.  
In my view it must be the case  that the registered individuals  appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts. In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause  2.1 when read with clause 2.4, and the rest of the agreement, 
and/or
it is the express or implied  authority from all the processes  set out in Positive 
Solutions own requirements on its registered individuals  as result of the FSA 
conduct of business  rules  it is subject to.
In saying all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered  individual  is 
unconditional. I only say at this point that the authority  goes wider  than only introducing 
applications for new approved contracts. In my view the registered individuals authority does 
include giving advice  on the merits of selling existing investments in some circumstances.
So it is my view, in this case, that Positive  Solutions authority to Mr H did potentially  include 
advice on the merits of selling existing investments and transferring out of occupational  
pensions as well as the introduction of applications for new contracts.  
did the agents express  authority cover  the advice in this case?
An agent  is required to act in the interests  of the principal. This principle  is reflected in some 
of the provisions of the agency  agreement  referred  to above. It seems the agent is likely  to 
have breached those terms  in this case. 
Further, it is difficult to see that giving advice to: 
Ref: DRN788350428set up a SIPP (with a non-approved provider)  
and transfer  pensions to it in order to invest in a non-approved investment 
where no commission or fee was passed  on to Positive Solutions 
was acting in the interests  of the principal, Positive  Solutions.
There is also the point  that Positive Solutions  instructions  to its agents via its Compliance  
Manual and Pension Handbook said that certain qualifications were required to give transfer 
pensions advice. Positive Solutions says Mr H did not have the required qualifications.  
It is therefore my view that the agent was not acting within  the actual authority in relation to 
the disputed advice. 
That is not however the end of the matter.   There is also apparent (or ostensible) authority 
to consider. 
apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual  authority of his agent.  But if the 
agent acts outside of that actual authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the 
agents acts if those acts were within the agents  apparent authority. This is the case  even if 
the agent was acting  fraudulently and in furtherance  of his own interest  provided the agent 
is acting within his apparent authority. 
This type of authority  was described by Diplock LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock  LJ referred to contractors,  the law on apparent  authority applies to any 
third party dealing with the agents  of a principal  including consumers like Mr P.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot arise on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. 
For apparent authority  to operate there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in Freeman, 
Ref: DRN788350429The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle as 
stated in Article  74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 Comm, Jacobs J 
endorsed Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas  SA [1985] 
UKHL 11, Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
Ref: DRN788350430regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation  that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf  will only fix 
the principal with liability to the third party (here Mr P) if the third party  relied on that 
representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs  J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is 
sufficient evidence of reliance on the representation as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts  of that case, Jacobs J placed  weight on the fact the majority of the 
claimants had never heard of the defendant, Sense Network, and that those who had heard 
of it made  their decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery 
which they later said contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes clear,  whether  or not a claimant has relied on a representation  is 
dependent on the circumstances  of that individual  case. 
Here, I must consider whether, on the facts of this individual  case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr P that Mr H had Positive  Solutions  
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about,  
and
Mr P relied on that representation in entering  into the transactions he now complains 
about.
Having considered the law in this area,  including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far 
as representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether  Positive Solutions placed  Mr H in 
a position which would  objectively generally  be regarded as carrying its authority to enter  
into transactions such as setting up of the SIPP to transfer existing pensions to it in order  to 
invest in the Harlequin investment scheme.  Put another  way, did Positive  Solutions 
knowingly  or even unwittingly  lead Mr P to believe that Mr H was authorised  to conduct 
business on its behalf of a type (namely, advising and arranging investments) that he was 
not in fact authorised to conduct?
I also need to decide whether Mr P relied on any representation Positive Solutions made. 
Having considered Parker  Js comments in Martin, if Mr P proceeded throughout on the 
footing that in giving advice Mr H was acting in every respect  as the agent of Positive 
Ref: DRN788350431Solutions with authority  from Positive  Solutions  so to act, then this suggests I should 
conclude that Mr P relied on Positive Solutions representation.
did Positive Solutions represent to Mr P that Mr H had the relevant authority?
Mr P and Mr H had a client/adviser relationship going back a number  of years and predating 
Mr Hs relationship with Positive  Solutions. As I understand it Mr H recommended  some or 
all of Mr Ps investments and they met from time to time to review  things. This is common 
practice notwithstanding the fact that Positive  Solutions (like many other IFAs) make it clear 
they are not obliged  to give ongoing advice.
As I understand it is not in dispute  that Mr H did give investment advice on behalf  of Positive 
Solutions before the events complained about in 2010.
I note that Mr P did not receive a terms of business  agreement in respect of the disputed 
advice. Nevertheless  it is my view that in principle an agent of Positive Solutions was 
authorised to:
advise on the setting up of SIPPs
advise on the transfer of existing pensions to SIPPs
advise on the investment  of funds within a SIPP.
These activities were provided for in Positive Solutions procedures.  None of these activities  
were in themselves  novel  or exceptional  or unexpected for an IFA firm. These are activities  
that fall within the class  of activities that IFAs are usually  authorised  to do. The transfer of 
occupational pensions is a specialist activity.  Some IFA firms  are permitted to carry out that 
activity. Some are not. I am not sure if this is a point that is known  and understood by many 
consumers or by Mr P in particular. But in any event Positive Solutions was at the time a firm 
that was authorised to advise on pension transfers.
Any restrictions on the authority to give advice  of the types I have listed above  would not 
have been visible to Mr P. So for example he would not know that an adviser  should  only 
recommend approved investments, should obtain  clearance from Positive  Solutions before  
giving certain types of advice and should present the advice  in certain ways.
Positive Solutions placed Mr H in a position which would, in the outside  world, generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr P complains about.  
Positive Solutions authorised Mr H to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive  Solutions  
arranged for Mr H to appear on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions.  And Mr H 
was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent  financial  adviser  that gave advice and 
offered products from the whole  of the market  after assessing a clients needs. No 
information was provided to clients  or potential clients about the agent being authorised in 
relation to approved products only.  
Positive Solutions provided Mr H with Positive Solutions business stationery and the transfer 
of servicing request form so Mr H could advise on the existing pensions.
It was in Positive Solutions  interest  for the general  public, including Mr P to understand that 
it was taking responsibility for the advice given  by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that 
Ref: DRN788350432Positive Solutions intended  Mr P to act on its representation that Mr H was its financial 
adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions 
business. It said in its terms of business that its Partners would give impartial,  independent  
financial advice. I do not see how Positive  Solutions could have carried  out its business 
activities at all if the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr H as having  
authority to give investment advice on behalf  of Positive Solutions.
did Mr P rely on Positive  Solutions representation? 
Mr P has said he understood  Mr H to be acting  as Positive Solutions adviser when he gave 
that advice. Mr H has said that he made it clear that he was not acting as a Positive  
Solutions adviser when  he gave  the advice. However Mr Hs point is not supported  by the 
evidence.
Mr H advised Mr P to set up a SIPP and to transfer existing pension rights to it. Mr H also 
advised on the merits of buying the Harlequin investment using those pension rights  within  
the SIPP.
Mr P signed  transfer  of servicing request forms addressed to Scottish Life and Aviva 
authorising to transfer the servicing of those policies to Mr H at Positive  Solutions  at Positive 
Solutions head office address. Those firms were asked to notify Positive Solutions when that 
had been done. This information was on the form Mr P signed.
The Lazy Money presentation shows Mr H said he would arrange  for a specialist SIPP.
The Guardian SIPP application was completed  by or with Mr H who referred  to himself as 
acting for Positive  Solutions of the application. And the application was sent to Guardian,  
including the application to transfer the existing  pensions, to Guardian  by Mr H using 
Positive Solutions note paper.
The emails  from Mr H show he recommended the Harlequin investment. And the Lazy 
Money presentation shows Mr H told Mr P the scheme included  discounts available  to 
Positive Solutions advisers.
It is the case Mr H did not give Mr P a Positive  Solutions terms of business agreement  when 
giving the advice. Or confirm the advice in a recommendation report making  it clear  the 
advice was from Positive Solutions.   It is however my view that the absence of these 
documents does  not clearly establish  the capacity in which  the advice was given. 
There is the issue of Tailormade and the first solicitors saying Mr P intended to complain  
about them  also. Mr P has however said the following to the adjudicator in this case (in an 
email dated 2 June  2014):
With regard to Positive  Solutions  response to my original  claim (via [the first solicitors]),  I 
confirm the following:  [Mr  H] never explained  anything about the involvement of Tailormade 
and a company called  Overseas Property Angels  - both of whom I had absolutely  no 
knowledge of at that moment in time. As far as I was concerned PHs advice came under  the 
Positive Solutions umbrella and I was given absolutely  no indication that my understanding 
was wrong. 
The adjudicator also noted the following from a phone  conversation with Mr P the same day:
Ref: DRN788350433He never heard  of overseas  property  angel.  The only time he heard of tailormade was that 
he saw the name on one of the forms.  asked  him whether he has any SIPP documents and 
he said know  [sic]. Asked him who advised him on the SIPP and he said [Mr H] advised  him 
on the SIPP.
Later the adjudicator wrote on 8 August  2014:
I note the Harlequin Property reservation form signed by [Mr P] identified the agency that 
would have received the commission for the Harlequin Property  investment was tailor-made  
and not Positive Solutions.
I have not however seen that reservation  form and cannot currently  find it in our records.  
Mr P has recently said:
With regards to Tailor Made, the only visible link to them was the original Harlequin 
Property Reservation Form  which  was signed by their agent Marcus James  from 
Tailor Made  and the Harlequin  Representative [name given]  it is assumed [Mr H] 
had arranged this with them accordingly.
I cannot see that there is evidence that Mr H represented the he was acting for himself  or 
anyone other than Positive  Solutions in relation to the investment  in Harlequin. The 
involvement of third parties  in transaction does not really establish  that Mr H was acting for 
those third parties rather than acting  independently of them for Positive Solutions in 
accordance with as Positive Solutions  normal terms of business.   
I cannot see that there is evidence that Mr P knew or should reasonably have known  that 
Mr H was not acting  for Positive Solutions   in accordance with its general  representation 
that Mr H had its authority  to act for it as it financial adviser - in every  respect in relation to 
the setting up of the SIPP, the pension transfer  and the investment in Harlequin. 
In my view, on balance, the evidence does indicate that Mr P proceeded on the basis  that 
Mr H was acting in every respect  as the agent  of Positive Solutions with authority from 
Positive Solutions so to act.
is it just for Positive  Solutions to be required to bear any losses caused by Mr H?
The courts have taken into account  whether it is just to require a principal to bear a loss 
caused by the wrongdoing  of his agent.  I have  considered whether it is just to hold Positive  
Solutions responsible  for any detriment Mr P has suffered as result of the advice  he received 
from Mr H. Here, I think it is just to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the consequences 
of its putting Mr H in the position where  Mr P could suffer loss as a result of his actions. In 
particular, I note:
Positive Solutions was in a position  to monitor Mr Hs behaviour.  
Positive Solutions did not tell Mr P it had put any of the limits  on his authority that it 
says are relevant  here.
Positive Solutions agency agreement acknowledges that it will be held responsible 
for the wrongs  of its agents and includes and requires the agent to provide it with an 
indemnity it respect of any losses etc it suffers as result  of such  wrongs.
Ref: DRN788350434So overall I consider  that it is just for Positive  Solutions to be required to bear any losses  
caused by any wrong  doing done  by Mr H whilst carrying on the a controlled function 
assigned to him by Positive Solutions.
vicarious liability
I think it is also appropriate for me to consider whether Positive  Solutions  is vicariously  liable 
for the actions of Mr H  independently of whether  apparent authority also operated such  as 
to fix Positive Solutions with liability for the actions of its agents.  
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common  law principle of strict, no-fault liability  for wrongs committed by 
another person. 
Not all relationships  are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.  The classic example of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability is the employment relationship, but 
Mr H was not an employee of Positive  Solutions. However, the employment  relationship  is 
not the only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two-stage test to decide whether vicarious liability  can apply:
Stage  one is to ask whether there is a sufficient  relationship between  the wrongdoer  
and the principal (Cox  v Ministry  of Justice [2016] UKSC 10).
Stage  two is to ask whether  the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties  on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be 
held liable  (Mohamud  v WM Morrison  Supermarkets plc [2016]  UKSC 11).
There is some uncertainty in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should be applied. I 
note that in Frederick  v Positive Solutions the Court of Appeal explicitly declined  to decide 
whether the test in Cox applied to Positive  Solutions  relationship  with another  of its 
registered individuals. 
If it were the case that vicarious liability could never have anything to do with principals and 
agents then I consider  it likely that the Court  of Appeal would have simply said so. But in any 
event, the relationship between Mr H and Positive Solutions was not just an agency 
relationship. Mr H was registered with the FSA as an approved person able to carry out 
regulated activities  on Positive Solutions  behalf, and this complaint is about the regulated 
activities of advising on and arranging deals  in investments. I consider that it would be wrong 
for me to simply ignore  or set aside  the regulatory background in reaching my decision.  
I am not aware of any case law concerning  the exact set of circumstances that Mr P 
complains about. But that does not prevent me from applying the law as I understand it to 
be. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Ref: DRN788350435Had Mr P referred this matter to a court instead  of to the ombudsman service,  I consider  that 
the court is likely to have  chosen to apply  the approach suggested  by Lord Reed. I will 
therefore do the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted  that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer and employee, 
may be capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
I am satisfied that in giving investment advice to Mr P to transfer  pensions  to a SIPP Mr P 
and make the investment within the SIPP, Mr H was carrying on activities as an integral part 
of the business activities  carried on by Positive Solutions.  I say that because:
At the time, Positive Solutions stated purpose was To help our clients, Understand, 
Protect and Increase  their Assets. I consider that the provision of, and subsequent 
implementation of, investment  advice is an integral part of fulfilling that purpose. 
Positive Solutions business model was that it gave financial advice itself, through its 
Partners.  As set out in its partnership  code, those Partners  promised to give 
impartial,  independent financial advice.  
Positive Solutions status  as an authorised firm meant  that it was not in breach of the 
general prohibition  when  it gave investment advice  to members of the public. So, 
when its Partners gave investment advice on behalf of Positive  Solutions,  carrying  
out Positive Solutions business activities, those Partners were not in breach  of the 
general prohibition  either.
Mr H was a Positive Solutions  Partner. Positive  Solutions had given him permission 
to carry out the controlled functions  Investment Adviser  (Trainee) , then Investment 
Adviser  and CF 30 Customer on behalf  of Positive  Solutions.  Positive Solutions 
had therefore  engaged  Mr H to carry out activities that were  an integral part of its 
business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance  as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right, set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance  was 
published some  time after the events in Mr Ps complaint took place, the relevant parts of the 
legislation (in respect of permissions to give regulated financial advice) have not changed 
substantively. I therefore  consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in 
PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
Ref: DRN788350436Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr H to fall outside the general  prohibition  when acting on 
Positive Solutions behalf in giving and implementing investment advice. As Ive said, I 
consider that the only way in which Mr H could have fallen outside the general prohibition 
would be on the basis that he was carrying on Positive Solutions business rather than his 
own. In my view, the guidance therefore provides support for the contention that 
Mr Hs relationships with Positive  Solutions  were very similar to employment  relationships. 
Further, in allowing Mr H to give investment advice on its behalf, Positive Solutions was 
creating the risk that he might make errors or act negligently in doing  so. Positive Solutions 
assigned to Mr H the customer  facing task of giving  regulated financial advice to Positive 
Solutions customers, and it is always possible for that task to be carried out negligently.
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely  connected  with the 
business activities of his principal as to make it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud, the test requires a court  to make an evaluative  judgment 
in each case having regard to all the circumstances and having regard to the assistance  
provided by previous decisions  on the facts of other  cases. That is not a precise test, but 
the courts have  recognised the inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range of 
circumstances where  the issue of vicarious liability arises.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider that it is just for Positive 
Solutions to be held responsible for the actions Mr P complains about. I note:
Mr H was giving investment advice, and filling in forms to put that advice into 
practice. I consider  both of those activities are closely connected to the business 
activities of Positive  Solutions, a firm which provided financial advice and arranged 
investment transactions for its customers (including  Mr P).
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously  liable here, then Mr Ps ability  to obtain 
compensation would depend  on whether  the Positive Solutions Partner he dealt with 
was an employee  of Positive Solutions. In Cox, the court suggested  it would have 
been unreasonable and unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation for 
the injury she suffered  while  working in a prison  kitchen to depend  on whether the 
worker who injured her was an employee or a prisoner. I consider  that argument  has 
even more relevance here  at least Mrs Cox is likely to have either known  or had the 
ability to find out who was an employee and who was a prisoner. But Mr P had no 
way of knowing Mr Hs employment  status.  (I am aware  that Mr Hs agency  contract  
said he had to make his status  as a registered  individual clear   but even  if he had 
done that, the term Registered Individual did not imply  anything about his 
employment status.)
The agency contracts say Positive  Solutions will not be responsible  if Mr H acts 
outside his authority.  But the contract  also says that any act or omission of the 
registered individual will be treated as an act of Positive Solutions. In my view, those 
two terms conflict.  I do not consider it would be fair for Positive Solutions to be 
entitled to rely on one but ignore the other.
Positive Solutions received no benefit from the acts Mr P complains about, and in 
particular it did not receive any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained  in 
Ref: DRN788350437Mohamud, vicarious liability can apply even where  an employee has abused his 
position in a way that cannot  possibly have  been  of benefit to his employer  such  as 
carrying out a private  fraud or assaulting a customer. In Frederick, Positive Solutions 
was found not to be vicariously liable despite having  received  commission.  The 
commission issue is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions I have  reached are different to the conclusions  reached 
by the court  in Frederick.  In that case, Positive Solutions was found  not to be vicariously 
liable for the conduct of an adviser  named  Mr Warren. I have not seen the whole of 
Mr Warrens agency contract  with Positive Solutions,  but from the sections quoted  in the 
judgment the terms in his contract appear  to be identical  to the terms in Mr Hs contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts  here that I do not consider that 
the same  outcome is inevitable in this complaint. In particular,  I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were approached by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a 
registered individual of Positive Solutions.  Mr Qureshi induced them to invest in a 
property scheme, which he was running jointly  with Mr Warren. The claimants  had 
no personal dealings  with [Mr] Warren and did not meet him or receive  any written 
communications from himthere was no semblance  of an advice process. Here, 
Mr P had personal dealings with Mr H, Positive Solutions registered  individual. He 
met with Mr H who provided him with advice. Mr H carried  out business  activities  of a 
type that had been assigned to him by Positive  Solutions, and which he could only 
(lawfully) perform on behalf  of Positive  Solutions.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage applications for loans on 
behalf of the claimants. Mr P makes  no allegation of fraud. He only complains about  
the suitability of the advice for him. His allegation is one of negligence and/or breach 
of statutory duty. He does  not say Mr H was dishonest. There is therefore no need  for 
me to consider  whether Positive  Solutions  would have been  vicariously  liable for 
Mr Hs dishonest acts.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage  applications in the way he did 
because he was an agent of Positive Solutions. But the claimants in Frederick did not 
say they had suffer[ed] any loss through the actual re-mortgaging  or their receipt  of 
monies from [the lender].  Instead,  they suffered losses only when they handed the 
money over to Mr Warren (or to the company of which  Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi 
were directors).  In contrast, Mr P says he suffered  losses as a direct result  of the 
advice given to him by Mr H, in his capacity as a Positive Solutions  financial adviser,  
to transfer his pensions to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and 
Mohamud are not applicable to Mr H, Positive Solutions,  and the specific  acts Mr P 
complains about. The applicability of those tests  to agency relationships is unclear, as is 
their applicability to some or all of the reliance-based torts, possibly including  negligent mis-
statement. 
Even if those specific tests are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a 
court to consider whether Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the actions  of 
Mr H. The earlier cases, including Armagas  and the Christian Brothers case  [2012] UKSC  
Ref: DRN78835043856, make  clear that justice is the courts  overriding  concern in such matters. Where the 
claimant and the defendant are both innocent parties, the court  will consider whether the 
circumstances under which the wrongdoer committed his wrong  were  such  as to make it just 
for the defendant to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind the regulatory position,  I consider  that in the particular circumstances of this 
case it is just to require  Positive Solutions to bear any loss caused by negligent  investment  
advice provided  by Mr H.
From a public policy point of view,  one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for 
the protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which 
both FSMA and the FSA gave effect  to that protection. Mr H was a Positive Solutions 
approved persons. In view of section 59(1) of FSMA,  I consider that when 
Mr H carried out the regulated activity of advising on investments, and arranging  deals in 
investments, those activities were the activities of Positive Solutions.  Positive  Solutions  is 
clearly responsible for its own activities. I see no support in FSMA  or anywhere else  for 
the belief that Positive Solutions  responsibility  for its approved  persons was dependent on 
the precise nature of its contracts with those people  (agency/non-agency). Similarly, I do not 
see anything to suggest Positive Solutions  responsibility depends on whether the approved  
persons conduct  is classified  in terms of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I 
would be surprised if a court  were to take the view that such  distinctions were relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint.
I therefore consider  that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P complains 
about regardless of whether Mr H carried out those acts with apparent authority on behalf  of 
Positive Solutions. (However,  as I have said I consider that Mr H did in fact act with Positive 
Solutions apparent  authority when they carried out the acts complained of.) 
statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I am satisfied that when Mr H gave the advice complained 
of, and when he arranged the associated  deals in investments, he was both acting in his 
capacity as Positive Solutions approved  person for the purpose of carrying on Positive 
Solutions regulated  business. He was not carrying on a business of his own.
That means Positive Solutions is subject to the Conduct of Business (COBS) suitability rules 
in respect of Mr Hs advice. If Mr Hs advice was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised  
defences) Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr P under the statutory  cause of 
action provided  by section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider that section 150 of FSMA 
provides an alternative  route by which Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts 
complained of.
summary of my provisional  findings  on jurisdiction
Having considered all the circumstances here, as well as the legal authorities, I am 
provisionally satisfied  that: 
Positive Solutions represented  to Mr P that Mr H had Positive Solutions authority 
both to advise  on the transfer of Mr Hs pensions to a SIPP and invest  within the 
SIPP, Mr P relied  on Positive  Solutions  representations, and apparent  authority 
therefore operated  such as to give rise to Positive Solutions responsibility for the 
acts Mr P complains about.
Ref: DRN788350439 
In addition  or in the alternative   Positive  Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts 
Mr P complains  about. 
Positive Solutions also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the 
acts complained about.
I am therefore satisfied  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr P complains 
about. Even if I am wrong about one or two of the above three conclusions, I still consider 
that the third means that Mr Ps complaint about  Positive Solutions falls within  my 
jurisdiction.
my provisional findings on merits
When considering  all the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint I have also formed a provisional view about what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P was advised to transfer his pensions to invest in a SIPP.  That necessarily involves 
considering the suitability  of the SIPP and the suitability of the known  replacement  
investment.  
Mr P has said he was relatively risk averse and that the Harlequin  investment involved too 
much risk for him.
I note that Positive  Solutions Pension Handbook  says that its advisers  should  not 
recommend a SIPP for a pension fund of less that £75,000. And in this complaint less than 
£75,000 was transferred  to the SIPP.
I also note the following  comments  made  by the Upper Tribunal Tax and Chancery Chamber 
in the case Alistair Burns v Financial  Conduct  Authority [2018]  UKUT 0246 (TCC)  a case 
involving a Director of Tailor Made:
273 It would be readily apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by 
interests in a defined benefit scheme or in a personal  pension  invested in a spread  of 
traditional investments,  to switch his benefits into a SIPP  which was to be wholly invested in 
either a single or very small number of inherently  risky overseas property investments was a 
wholly unsuitable course of action for that investor to take 
I agree  with that view. The investment in Harlequin was relatively high risk and there is no 
evidence that the investment was suitable  for Mr P. In my view investing in an unregulated 
off-plan property investment scheme  overseas  involved a high degree of risk which  was not 
suitable for Mr P. He should not have been advised to transfer his pensions to a SIPP  in 
order to invest in Harlequin.  
There is no evidence to suggest Mr P would have  transferred his pensions  to invest  in 
Harlequin if Positive Solutions had advised  him that it was unsuitable  for him to transfer his 
pensions to a SIPP and then invest those pension funds in Harlequin. It is therefore my 
present view that if he had been  given suitable advice Mr P would have left his pensions as 
they were with the existing pension providers.
Ref: DRN788350440If Mr P had been given  suitable advice by Positive Solutions he would not have suffered the 
losses he has suffered in his pension. Nor would he have incurred fees in relation to the 
SIPP. I say this notwithstanding the fact that Mr P transferred a third pension to the SIPP in 
2012 after he first started to complain to Positive Solution in 2012 and started to draw 
benefits from the SIPP not long after that. By that time Mr P had the SIPP  and the illiquid 
Harlequin investment  so he was stuck where  he was. The use of the then existing  SIPP was 
not an indication  that a SIPP would  have been  taken  out in any event.   Even  with three  
pensions transferred into it, the SIPP  had only received about £80,000 which  is lower  than 
the usual level of investment for a SIPP.
Nor would Mr P have  suffered the considerable trouble and upset  he has no doubt suffered 
as a result  of suffering the significant  damage  his pension  provision  has suffered at around  
the time when he was starting to think about  retiring and had no real prospect of making 
good large investment losses.
how to put things right
On the assumption  that Mr P would not yet have  taken  benefits from his existing pensions  if 
he had not transferred them and that they were defined contributions  schemes, in my view 
Positive Solutions should put things right as follows:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Ps transferred pensions  as at the date of my 
final decision  had they not been transferred  to the SIPP.  
Positive Solutions should ask those pension providers to calculate the notional  transfer  
values they would have applied as at the date of this decision had Mr P not transferred his 
pensions but instead remained invested  in those pensions.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP (attributable to the pensions  transferred 
to it on Positive Solutions advice) at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. Credit  should not be given  in the calculation for the value in the pension 
attributable to the third pension transferred into the SIPP  later.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer  values are increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ps SIPP, Positive  Solutions  should pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr P. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr P is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional  allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr P had been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional  allowance should  be applied  
to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr P to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Ref: DRN788350441Had Positive Solutions given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair 
if Mr P has to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Positive Solutions should take over the Harlequin investment to allow  the SIPP  to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Mr P back in the position he would  have been  in. 
So, to provide certainty to both parties,  I think its fair that Positive Solutions pays 
Mr P an upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees) or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. In return for the compensation set out above, Positive Solutions may ask Mr P to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the investment  in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investment. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount they may receive. Positive  Solutions  will need to meet any costs in drawing up this 
undertaking. If it asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded by my decision may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Positive Solutions  wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an 
undertaking for any future  payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If Positive  Solutions fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr P should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed.
5. Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr P will have been caused significant  upset  by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
loss of, in effect,  all of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate  
for that upset.
If Mr P thinks my assumptions  about  not taking  benefits or the type of pension  scheme are 
not correct he should  let the investigator know and provide details of what  he says he would 
have done instead, when  and why and provide any evidence he has in support and these 
points will be considered  further.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that: 
we can consider this complaint
the complaint  should be upheld
and Positive solutions should pay fair compensation as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7883504