K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  unfairly  declined  an 
application to remove her ex-partner from her mortgage. She says that was because Halifax 
had incorrectly recorded that she had missed  payments to her mortgage.
background
Miss D had a mortgage with Halifax. It was in joint names with her now ex-partner. In March 
2016, Miss D asked Halifax to remove her ex-partner from her mortgage. But after initially  
telling her the application was affordable, Halifax  declined the application. Miss D says she 
may have  made another application online later in 2016.
Miss D says that Halifax later told her that it had been recording  incorrect  information on her 
credit file  but it hasnt  corrected it.
Miss D says that these  matters have caused  her a lot of problems with her ex-partner and 
her health  along  with a great  deal of stress. She says it has meant she had to pay legal 
costs to enter into an agreement with her ex-partner, along with a lump sum payment that 
wouldnt have been necessary had he been removed from the mortgage. Miss D also says 
she has had to pay higher interest  rates because of the incorrect  information on her credit  
file.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Halifax did 
incorrectly record that two mortgage  payments were late in August 2015 and November 
2016. But the November 2016  payment  didnt  affect  the decision not to remove  Miss Ds ex-
partner from the mortgage  as it was after the decision had been made. While the August 
2015 payment  would have had been  something  that Halifax  took into account, looking at 
matters as a whole, the investigator wasnt persuaded  that it made any difference to its 
decision.
Miss D didnt accept what the investigator said. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wed already looked at Halifaxs decision to decline Miss Ds application to remover her ex-
partner in 2016. But we didnt issue a decision  on that complaint and there is new evidence 
that has come to light since then  Halifax  accepts that it had incorrectly  recorded two 
mortgage payments  as being late. So I am going  to consider this complaint and whether  the 
incorrect information made any difference to Halifaxs  decision.
incorrect arrears  information
Halifax said that it incorrectly  recorded  mortgage payments as being  late when they were 
paid on the last day of the month  they were due. It says that two of Miss Ds payments were  
affected by this  August 2015  and November 2016.
I havent seen  any evidence that any other payments were affected  by this issue. Halifax 
says that it corrected Miss Ds credit  file in March 2018. And despite requests  Miss D hasnt 
Ref: DRN79487212provided any evidence  to show that it is incorrect. So, on balance,  Im satisfied  that Halifax 
has corrected her credit file. 
declined application(s)
Its accepted that Miss D made an application to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage in 
March 2016 and that it was declined. 
We now know that Halifax incorrectly recorded that Miss D had made  a late payment in 
August 2015 and November 2016.  But only the August 2015  late payment would have 
influenced Halifaxs decision  in March  2016.
We dont have all of the information  relating to the March 2016 application due to the 
passage of time. But Halifax says that the application would have  been  declined in any event 
because of the previous arrears and late payments  on the mortgage. 
Looking at the evidence available to me and the conduct of the mortgage, it seems less 
likely that Halifax would  approved the application  even if the August 2015 payment was 
correctly recorded  as being  on time. I say that because of the arrears and late payments in 
the year before the application. So while  I understand why Miss D thinks Halifaxs mistake 
made a difference to its decision, Im not persuaded that it did.
I accept that Halifax  may have indicated that the application was affordable. But that it isnt 
the only thing  it would  check  and it isnt a formal offer of lending. I dont think this means it 
unfairly declined  Miss Ds application.
 Its not clear  if Miss D made another application later in 2016. Miss D says it may have been 
made online. But neither she nor Halifax have any record of it. In the absence  of any 
substantive information about this possible application, I cant say that Halifax acted unfairly 
or unreasonably.
I note the difficulties that Miss D says she experienced because her ex-partner remained on 
the mortgage, including the solicitors costs and the lump sum payment to her ex-partner. 
But as Ive not found that Halifax acted unreasonably in declining the application I cant ask it 
to do anything further here.
putting things  right
Its clear that Halifax has made  a mistake. It incorrectly recorded adverse  information on 
Miss Ds credit file in respect  of her mortgage.  Its completely understandable  that she 
believes this made  a significant difference  to Halifaxs decision. I was also sorry to hear 
about her health  problems  brought  about  by the stress of events in 2016.  But for the reasons 
Ive set out, I think its likely Halifax would still have declined that application  had the correct 
information recorded. So, while I dont doubt the impact it had on her life, I wont  be telling 
Halifax to compensate Miss D for its decision
Miss D says that the incorrect information  has affected her ability  to obtain  credit and the 
terms on which she was offered credit. But there  were arrears and late payments legitimately 
recorded by Halifax.  So I consider it unlikely  the two incorrect entries made a material  
difference to Miss Ds overall creditworthiness.
Ref: DRN79487213Halifaxs mistake  has caused  Miss D trouble and upset. She has found out that her 
mortgage lender  was recording incorrect information  on her credit  file  and she had the 
worry that it affected the decision to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage. That was on 
top of the difficult  time she had been through. But after carefully  considering everything, I 
consider that Halifaxs offer of £200  is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay Miss D £200   unless it has paid 
that amount  to her already in respect  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948721