K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy as he feels Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold a pet insurance policy to 
him.
 
background
Mr S has explained that he decided to shop around for pet insurance to cover his dog. He 
wanted to see if he could find cover for a lower premium than his insurer at the time was 
charging.
So, Mr S contacted Allianz  by phone. Allianz  discussed cover it could arrange for him. The 
policy it could arrange had a lower premium  than the policy Mr S currently  had for his dog. 
So, Mr S purchased the cover,  and cancelled the existing insurance he had elsewhere.
But, Mr S has said Allianz didnt sell the policy correctly to him, and that it would have been 
in his best interests to remain with the pet insurance provider he had before.  He noted that 
the previous policy  he had contained  no exclusions to the cover. But, the policy taken  
through Allianz had a number of exclusions  and the insurer refused to remove these even 
though his dog was well. Mr S said he wasnt told the exclusions would be a permanent 
feature of the policy.
In addition, Mr S felt Allianz  should have told him that given his dogs  age it would have been 
best to stay with his current  insurer.
Allianz said it applied  the exclusions to the policy Mr S took out correctly.  But, it said the 
service it had provided during the initial sales call with Mr S fell below the standards it would 
usually expect. So, it offered Mr S an amount  of £100 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. Mr S didnt feel this was fair. So, he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said hed listened  to the 
sales call between Mr S and Allianz,  and he was satisfied Allianz had explained the 
exclusions that would apply to the policy, why they were being applied, how long they 
applied for, and what to do to have the exclusions potentially narrowed or reviewed. And
Mr S did agree to purchase the policy  following  this explanation. 
Our investigator did note that during the call Mr S was told he would be sent details about 
the exclusions and how to potentially get them  removed via email. But, the information given 
to Mr S here was incorrect, and he wasnt sent the information via email. He felt the £100 
offered to Mr S was a fair and reasonable sum to compensate Mr S for this issue.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the complaints handler  he dealt with at Allianz had said Mr S had 
been treated unfairly, and that the poor sale of the policy meant Mr S had lost out on the 
benefits of cover he had under his previous insurance policy. Mr S felt these calls needed to 
be considered  here at this service, to gain an understanding of what  the complaint handler 
said. 
Because Mr S didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN70323082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained my reasons for this below.
Firstly, its important to note Mr S and Allianz have submitted a large amount of information 
on this complaint, including a number  of call recordings. Id like to reassure both parties that I 
have reviewed this, and taken into account  all of the points raised within the evidence 
submitted. But, in this decision  Ill only refer to information Ive seen where I consider it 
necessary to illustrate my reasoning.
The sale of pet insurance in this instance  was non-advised. So, it wasnt for Allianz to 
recommend a particular  policy or course of action to Mr S. Instead, Allianz needed to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information  to Mr S, so he could make an informed choice as 
to whether the policy Allianz was offering was right for him and his dog.
Mr S doesnt  feel Allianz provided clear, fair and not misleading information in this case. As 
above, he has said Allianz didnt properly outline  the exclusions that would apply to the 
policy, or give him sufficient information  to let him know exclusions would be applied  to the 
policy permanently. He feels if this information  had been given to him he would  have made 
the decision to continue with the policy he had with a previous insurer. 
Given this, Ive needed to decide  whether Allianz  acted fairly  and reasonably in the way in 
which it sold the policy to Mr S  and in particular in the way it explained the policy 
exclusions to him. 
So, Ive listened  to a call recording of the sales conversation between  Mr S and Allianz. 
Having listened  to this Im satisfied the information  given  to Mr S during the sales call was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I think Mr S was provided with enough  information  about the 
exclusions, and this was explained  clearly, to allow him to decide  whether he wanted  to go 
ahead with purchasing the cover.
I say this because  during  the sales call Mr S was asked about his dogs medical history. He 
discussed a number of incidents he could recall  and this included a benign  lump in his 
dogs chest, a lump  on his eyelid and a limp that his dog had a few years ago, but that went  
away.
During the call the advisor referred the information to the underwriting team. It was then 
explained to Mr S that three exclusions would apply  to the policy. Mr S was told these  would 
be;
-An exclusion of benign tumours  which was reviewable after 24 months of Mr Ss 
dogs last treatment  date for this issue.
-A general exclusion for tumours,  warts, cysts, growths and abscesses. Mr S was told 
this was reviewable as soon  as a diagnosis had been provided for the cause of the 
lump on Mr S dogs eyelid, and Allianz had been able to review  this.
-An exclusion for conditions related  to Mr S dogs hips and hind limbs. Allianz also let 
Mr S know  this was reviewable  once  Allianz had more medical information about his 
dogs previous problem in this respect.  
Ref: DRN70323083Given the above, Im satisfied Mr S was made aware of the exclusions that would apply  to 
the policy  and the next steps  that were needed  for getting these reviewed (providing the 
dogs medical history). So, I think Allianz  did provide enough information to enable Mr S to 
make a choice as to whether he wanted to purchase the policy.  So, Allianz  acted fairly here, 
and I dont require  it to do anything more.
Mr S has said that given the age of his dog, he should have been  informed to stay with his 
previous insurer. But, during  a non-advised sale it isnt for Allianz  to make this 
recommendation. It is for Mr S to decide  whether he wants  to change insurer or not, based 
on the information given to him. And as above,  I do think  this information was clear  enough  
for Mr S to make an informed decision.
Mr S has explained that a complaint handler  he spoke to at Allianz  had agreed with him that 
the sale of the policy  had been poor. And he wanted us to listen  to the content of the phone 
conversations he had with that complaint hander. Ive listened to these calls, so Im aware 
the complaint  handler does agree with Mr S. But, having reviewed Allianzs final position on 
the matter  and listening  to the sale of the policy myself, I do think  Allianz acted  reasonably 
when it sold the policy. So, this doesnt alter my decision on the matter.  
Allianz has accepted  that it told Mr S he would receive his policy documents via email, 
alongside instructions on how the exclusions could be reviewed. But it says it didnt send this 
email to Mr S when asked. It has offered Mr S £100 compensation for the poor service  it said 
it had provided to Mr S. 
Ive thought about whether I think this offer is compensation  is fair. And I do think this is 
reasonable. I say this because I think it reflects the level of trouble and upset Mr S would 
have experienced on not receiving the documents via email, and on receiving conflicting 
information from Allianz about whether  the sale was conducted correctly or not. So, I dont  
require Allianz  to pay anything more. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that the 
£100 compensation offered to Mr S is reasonable. So, I dont require Allianz  Insurance Plc to 
do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7032308