K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains about the way Barclays Bank UK plc handled his complaint that his account 
had been debited with card payments he says he neither made nor authorised.   
background 
In September  2017 Mr Is account was debited  with 18 card payments, totalling nearly 
£2,600. He contacted  Barclays to dispute them. The bank however noted that all the 
payments had been made using Mr Is genuine card and PIN and so didnt agree to refund 
them. Mr I said however  that he wasnt suggesting  the genuine card and PIN hadnt been  
used; rather, he was disputing the amounts taken by the merchant or merchants. However,  
because Mr I hadnt retained receipts for any payments, Barclays  said it couldnt properly 
challenge the payments through VISA, the card scheme. It did however pay him a total of 
£260 in recognition of some service issues it had identified.
Mr I remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to this service,  where  one of our 
adjudicators considered it. Following his involvement, Barclays  offered to refund the 
payments in full, together with interest,  and to pay Mr I a further £200. Mr I didnt think  the 
offer of a further £200 went far enough;  he thought  an additional £1,000 would be fair. The 
adjudicator expressed  the view that the offer was fair and didnt recommend that Barclays 
increase it. Mr I didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
Barclays has refunded  the disputed payments in line with its offer, but I understand it hasnt 
made any additional payments other  than the £260  made in late 2017.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Barclays has already refunded the disputed payments, I dont need  to comment in 
any detail on them. Had I decided that the bank  was wrong to have debited Mr Is account, I 
wouldnt have asked  it to do any more than refund them with interest in the way it has done. 
The only issue that remains for me to consider, therefore, is whether Barclays should  pay Mr 
I more than the further £200 its offered in recognition of the distress hes suffered and the 
inconvenience to which hes been put. In considering that particular issue,  I must also have  
in mind that hes already received £260  in respect  of those matters. 
In refunding the disputed payments, Barclays also paid interest at 8%; that in part is 
designed to compensate Mr I for being deprived of funds. 
The level of awards for distress and inconvenience isnt an exact  science, and neither are 
such awards intended to punish financial businesses; rather, they should compensate  
complainants. Taking all of that into account,  I agree that an award  of a further £200 is fair, 
and I dont require  the bank to increase its offer.  So that it can be enforced,  should that be 
necessary, I shall however make a formal award  requiring Barclays  to pay it. 
Ref: DRN75245952my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Is complaint, Barclays Bank UK plc should 
pay Mr I a further £200. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524595