K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the fees charged  by Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life) in relation  to Mr Hs self invested personal pension  (SIPP).  Hes also 
unhappy that he cant access the value  of an illiquid  investment held in the SIPP.
background
Mr H has a SIPP with Standard Life. In 2009,  on advice from his financial adviser, Mr H 
invested some of his SIPP fund in a Stirling Mortimer investment (the Stirling  Mortimer UK 
Land Fund Number 8). 
By June  2016  Mr H wanted to access his pension funds. Standard  Life paid out most of the 
money (less  tax) held in Mr Hs SIPP in June 2016. But Mr H wasnt able to access the 
money that had been invested in Stirling  Mortimer as that Fund was illiquid.    
Mr H complained to Standard Life. As he hadnt been able to withdraw the value of the 
Stirling Mortimer investment Mr Hs SIPP  remained open and he continued to incur charges. 
Standard Life said the Stirling Mortimer Fund managers couldnt release the value of Mr Hs 
investment due to illiquidity which was outside of Standard Lifes  control.  In the light of this, it 
had to keep the SIPP  account  open and continue  to report on the investment and in doing so 
it would  deduct  its charges  as outlined in its terms and conditions.  
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint.  He didnt  uphold it. He said Standard Life 
hadnt given the advice  to invest  and had acted reasonably in its role as a SIPP provider. 
Given that the SIPP account had to remain open to hold the illiquid investment,  
Standard Life was obliged to continue  reporting on it and so could deduct its charges in line 
with the terms and conditions which had been agreed.  
The adjudicator accepted  the situation was not ideal, but the position  Mr H was in was 
always a risk with the type of investment hed taken out, and this shouldve been explained 
to him by his adviser. 
Mr H didnt agree. Amongst other things he said hed instructed Standard Life to close  the 
SIPP and refund the money and Standard Life had no right to withhold the money and keep 
deducting its fees. Hed retired and he couldnt see that hed ever get his money back.  Mr H 
wanted us to order Standard Life to close his SIPP and return his money to him.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs wife has made a similar complaint about  her SIPP provider.  As in the main the issues  
are the same theres  some overlap between what Ive said on both complaints. 
I have considerable  sympathy for Mr H. Hes unable to realise the value of his holding  as the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund is illiquid. Not only is he being  kept out of that money but the illiquid 
asset means that his SIPP cant be wound  up and hell continue  to incur charges  for the 
foreseeable future. 
Ref: DRN74714342Sometimes in this sort of situation  where weve looked into a complaint against the adviser  
who recommended  the investment and upheld  that complaint, well include in our award a 
payment to meet the SIPP providers  on going fees.  Thats on the basis  that the SIPP cant 
be closed because of the illiquid investment which the consumer wouldnt have had if hed 
been given suitable advice. 
But thats as against the adviser, not the SIPP operator. Im only considering here a 
complaint against  Standard Life as the SIPP provider/operator. 
We can only make an award against Standard Life if we think it has done  something wrong. I 
can understand why Mr H feels hes being unfairly  treated. But Standard Life isnt 
responsible for the suitability of the investment  it wasnt  made on Standard  Lifes advice. 
Sometimes a SIPP operator will be prepared to write off a particular investment as having 
no value. Thats where its clear that the investment has failed and no funds will be available 
to return to investors. Similarly where  a fund has been wound up and any final distribution  
has been made to investors the SIPP can then be closed  and further  fees avoided. 
But I dont think thats the situation  here.  Standard Life has explained the current  status of 
the investment  and that it considers further monies will be paid from it. Standard Life isnt 
responsible for that or the timing  the Stirling Mortimer  Fund is an external investment 
which isnt managed by Standard Life and is outside its control. 
Mr H holds shares in the investment. His shares can only be redeemed when the Funds  
assets are sold and that money is released to investors. Redemption dates have been 
extended while the Funds assets  are sold. It hasnt  been possible  to set a firm timescale on 
redemptions but I understand that efforts are being made to return money  to investors  as 
soon as possible. I note Mr H received a payment in April 2018. Im not sure if any further  
payments have been made since. Standard Life wont be able to pay Mr H the value of his 
holding (or part thereof)  unless  and until payment is received from the Fund.
I accept that in the circumstances  the SIPP will remain open. And that Standard Life will 
continue to administer  it. So I dont think it is the case that Standard  Life is charging fees but 
not doing anything in return.  
I note that theres  provision in Standard Lifes terms and conditions for distressed 
investments. Im not sure if the Stirling Mortimer investment falls into that category. 
Standard Life hasnt said it does. The fact that redemption dates have been  extended  
doesnt mean that the investment is distressed. But in any event the charges will continue  to 
apply whether or not the investment  is distressed  as Standard Life will continue  to incur 
costs in administering the SIPP until the investment  is ceases to be distressed or is fully 
wound up. 
On balance, although Mr Hs situation  is very unfortunate, I cant say that Standard Life is 
responsible for what has happened or is acting  unreasonably. Or that Standard  Life isnt 
entitled to continue to charge fees for continuing to administer Mr Hs SIPP. Im also unable 
to agree with Mr H that Standard Life is required to pay him the value attributed to his Stirling  
Mortimer investment. Unfortunately Mr H can only get his money back  as and when the 
Funds assets are sold.
Ref: DRN74714343my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and Im not making any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7471434