K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lending was unaffordable.
background
Mrs R took out two AvantCredit  loans which she says were unaffordable.  She says the first 
loan was taken  out in 2015 and the second  in 2017 and that AvantCredit did not carry out 
appropriate checks of her financial position.  Mrs R says she had taken out multiple short 
term lending at the time and before and that should  have been  obvious to AvantCredit.  She 
would like all interest and charges refunded and interest paid on that amount as well as her 
credit file amended.
AvantCredit says it carried out all reasonable checks before approving  the loans. It says it 
confirmed Mrs Rs monthly income at just under  £2,000  and checked  her credit file. It also 
says Mrs R repaid the first loan without issue and didnt tell it about any financial difficulties.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought AvantCredit carried out all proper  and reasonable checks  and didnt think there was 
any negative information on her credit file at the time. The investigator also thought that Mrs 
R had on the face of it disposable income  of about  £700 at the time of the applications.
Mrs R doesnt accept  that view and says she had multiple payday lending  loans and was 
using one loan to repay another. She maintains the lending was unaffordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision and I 
also make  clear that I think this was a different type of loan to some of the others she had 
taken out over the last few years.
I have looked  at the checks carried out by AvantCredit in 2015 when Mrs R took out the first 
loan and I have  come to the overall view that it carried out all reasonable and proportionate 
checks. Im satisfied AvantCredit  checked Mrs Rs stated income of about £2,000  a month  
and carried out appropriate checks on her credit  file. So I dont  think AvantCredit simply 
accepted at face value  Mrs Rs income and credit  position without carrying  out its own 
checks. I can see that Mrs R made  all required repayments which I think  shows  on balance  
that the lending was affordable. I dont  think Mrs R was borrowing a particular large  amount 
of money of £1,500 or that the repayments of just over £80 a month were high in comparison 
to her income.
I accept the second  loan was for slightly more  than the first (£1,900) and that the 
repayments were now £116  a month.  But again  Im satisfied that AvantCredit carried out all 
reasonable and proportionate checks and credit scored  the second application. I have no 
doubt that AvantCredit also took into account  Mrs Rs repayment of the first loan and that 
there didnt  appear  any difficulties in doing so. Im satisfied that having looked at the second  
credit report  AvantCredit has provided that there  wasnt any negative  information recorded 
on it. 
I have looked  at Mrs Rs credit file and I accept that she took out a number of high interest 
short term pay day loans which I think are of a different type to these loans.  But I can also 
Ref: DRN75339482see that Mrs R didnt  have  any defaults  registered  on her credit file and whilst those other 
types of loan may have been  inappropriately lent I dont think  it follows  that these two loans 
were unaffordable or inappropriately lent.
Overall Im satisfied that AvantCredit carried out all reasonable and proportionate checks  
before approving these loans. For those reasons I cant fairly order it to refund interest and 
any charges as Mrs R would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7533948