K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined  a home 
insurance claim he made for damage to his property caused  by an escape of water. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in May 2019  explaining that I was intending to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
 background
Mr B experienced some problems with mould in his property in late 2017. He 
contacted a roofing company that had recently  carried out some repairs to his 
property, as he thought it might  be related.  But it advised the issue  wasnt  being 
caused by the roof. Following this Mr B called out a plumber to investigate  a potential 
leak in his airing cupboard. No leak was discovered, but the plumber  did find a pipe 
in the airing cupboard that was covered in condensation  which  he insulated the 
following day.
A few days  later Mr B went  on a 63 day trip abroad with his wife. He returned to find 
significant mould and mildew damage  in his property. He called out the same 
plumber, who thought the issue  was to do with the heating system because  Mr Bs 
towel rails werent working. But after another visit, the following week,  a leak was 
discovered underneath the floorboards   which the plumber made safe.
Mr B raised a claim  with RSA for the damage  in January 2018. Following a period of 
investigation, RSA declined the claim. It said Mr B was aware of issues with mould 
and mildew before he took his trip and that Mr B had failed to notify  RSA that he 
would be out of the property for more  than 60 days in any one year  which is a 
condition of the policy. It said Mr Bs policy included exclusions  under the escape of 
water and accidental  damage sections for damaged caused when the property had 
been left unoccupied for more than 60 days  in a row. It said that mould/mildew was 
the main cause of damage, not the escape  of water, and that damage caused  by 
mould/mildew falls within an exclusion under the accidental damage section of the 
policy for damage caused by gradually operating causes.
Mr B accepts that he was aware of mould and mildew before he went  away. But says 
he called  out relevant  experts to investigate  the issue and that his plumber identified 
and fixed what he believed to be the cause. So Mr B says he went  away  confident  
the problem had been found and fixed.
Mr B also argues that the policy terms about  the length of time his property  was 
unoccupied are contradictory. This is because one states 60 days  in a row and the 
other states  60 days in a year. He says he relied  on the one that states  60 days  in a 
year, but didnt  notify RSA because  his policy renewal took place during his trip, as 
did the turn of the year. So he didnt think he needed to because he wouldnt be away  
for 60 days in any one year (policy  or calendar).
Ref: DRN70759072Mr B brought his complaint to our service  where  it was looked at by one our 
investigators. He thought Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld.  He said RSAs  loss 
adjuster confirmed the escape of water  had been ongoing for several months. So in 
his view it wasnt fair for RSA to apply the exclusion for damage caused while the 
property had been unoccupied for 60 days in a row as the insured  event  had 
happened some  time before the property was unoccupied.
Our investigator also didnt think it was fair to apply the exclusion for gradually 
operating causes  including  fungus.  He said the damage was happening 
underneath the floor,  so wasnt immediately obvious  to Mr B. He noted that it had 
taken Mr Bs plumber three  visits before he discovered the leak.  He said while Mr B 
had noticed some damp patches and mould before his trip, he had called out the 
plumber who advised the issue was with condensation on a pipe, which  he put right.  
So he thought Mr B went on his trip reasonably believing the issue  had been  
resolved.
Our investigator recommended that RSA should  reconsider the claim and pay Mr B 
£300 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
RSA disagreed with our investigator. It said our investigator had ignored the policy 
exclusion about the property being unoccupied  for more than 60 days  in a row. It said 
it didnt agree that the damage  was caused  by the escape of water. It said the 
damage was caused by mould and mildew  which is excluded as a gradually 
operating cause.
Because no agreement has been reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue  I need to decide here is whether RSAs decision to decline Mr Bs claim is 
in line with the terms and conditions of his policy, and whether  it is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
RSA doesnt agree that the damage  to Mr Bs property was caused by the escape of 
water. It says the ongoing leak producing high level of moisture, combined with 
Mr Bs failure to take proper measures to protect  his home  shutting down the 
heating system and water supply   has promoted the growth  of mould  and mildew.  It 
says the mould  and mildew is what has caused  the damage  not the escape of 
water.
I appreciate RSAs point  that the majority of the damage to Mr Bs property has been  
caused by mould  and mildew which has built up over a period of time. And I accept 
that an exclusion exists  in the accidental  damage  section of Mr Bs policy for damage 
caused gradually, including by fungus.  But I dont agree that this claim is about 
accidental damage  caused by mould and mildew.  I think  the mould and mildew is the 
damage which has resulted from an insured event  the escape of water.  So I think  
this is an insured peril claim  for damage  caused by an escape of water, which is 
covered by Mr Bs policy. 
Ref: DRN70759073RSA says Mr Bs policy includes and exclusion for damage caused  by an escape of 
water when the property  has been  unoccupied  for more than 60 days in a row. It says 
Mr B was away  for 63 days, so this exclusion must apply. 
I accept that Mr B was away  for 63 days,  and that his policy  does contain this 
exclusion. But I think its important to note that RSAs  loss adjuster said based on the 
level of corrosion to the pipe, the leak had been ongoing for many months. And RSA 
echoed this in its final response letter to Mr B where  it said:
 It is clear  from the extent  of the corrosion  on the pipe, that the leak had been 
ongoing for a significant number of months  if not years.
The expert evidence  in this case indicates that the insured event (the escape of 
water) likely happened when the property was occupied. From the point of the 
escape of water, damage started occurring. So I dont agree that its fair for RSA to 
decline Mr Bs claim, in full, based on this exclusion.
If I were  to say that RSA could fairly rely on this exclusion, it would  only be able to do 
that for damage  caused during the 63 days that the property  was unoccupied. Any 
damage caused while the property was occupied should be covered. And it seems 
unlikely to me that RSA will be able to show what damage occurred and when. 
RSA also says that Mr B was required to notify  it if the property would be unoccupied  
on more than 60 days in any one year. It also says Mr B was already aware of issues  
with mould and mildew  before he went away. It says Mr B hasnt taken appropriate 
steps to protect  his home.
Mr B has confirmed  that he had noticed  some damp patches and mildew in the 
months leading  up to his trip. But he contacted his roofer and a plumber to 
investigate the issues, and was told by the plumber that condensation on a pipe was 
the cause. So while I accept that Mr B was aware of an issue before his trip, I think  
he took appropriate action to identify  and fix problem and that he went  away safe in 
knowledge that the issue was resolved   based on expert advice. I dont think Mr B 
shouldve reasonably been  aware that further  damage was occurring.
RSA says the reason it asks policy holders to notify  it when theyll  be out of their 
property for more than 60 days  in a year is so that additional endorsements can be 
placed on the policy to help protect the home  from events like an escape of water 
where it cannot be attended to. It says that if Mr B had drained  down  his water supply 
 which  wouldve been one of the endorsements  it could have prevented the 
prospect of more significant damage  and may have substantially reduced the 
humidity levels within the property that allowed mould spores to multiply and grow.  
I appreciate that RSA might have applied exclusions to Mr Bs policy  had he told it 
about his trip. But I havent seen any expert evidence to suggest  how much  of the 
damage had already  occurred by that point (beneath the floors  and carpets),  and 
how much,  if any, couldve been prevented by following the endorsements. And none  
of the evidence Ive seen  indicates the damage wouldve suddenly become  apparent  
while he was away  or if it would have, at what point.
Ref: DRN70759074In any event, Mr B was only required to notify  RSA if the property would  be 
unoccupied for 60 days  in any one year. And from what Ive seen, it wasnt during 
this trip. I say this because Mr Bs policy renewed in December  2017 and each policy  
renewal is a new contract of insurance. This means Mr B was away for less than 60 
days in each policy year. So I dont think RSA can fairly decline Mr Bs claim on the 
basis that he breached  this policy  condition.  
It follows that I currently think  RSA should reconsider Mr Bs claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy.
Mr B has also explained  that dealing with this claim and complaint has been stressful 
for him and his family.  I think  RSA was wrong to decline the claim for the reasons it 
did, and think this will have understandably added to Mr Bs distress.  So I think  its 
fair that RSA should compensate Mr B for the trouble and upset its incorrect decision 
has caused him.
I said I was intending  to recommend that RSA should reconsider  Mr Bs claim in line with the 
remaining terms of his policy,  and that it should pay him £300 compensation for trouble and 
upset. I asked everyone to send  me any further  comments and information before I reached  
a final decision.
Mr B responded to say that he didnt agree £300 was sufficient to recognise the impact 
RSAs errors  had had on his wifes  health.
RSA responded  to say that it didnt  agree  with my provisional findings. In summary it said:
The damage was not caused by the insured peril of escape of water.
The policy excludes claims  for damage  where  the property has been left unoccupied 
for 60 days in a row (not in a policy year, or 60 days in a calendar  year).
The policy excludes claims  for damage  caused by wear  and tear, gradually operating 
causes (which the accumulation of mould  and mildew is) and fungus (which also is 
what mould and mildew is).
The warm, humid and damp conditions (not the escape of water  on its own) allowed 
the mould and mildew  to thrive.
The policy does not include cover  for damp or atmospheric conditions  as an insured 
peril.
As both sides have now provided their responses Im moving  forward  with my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also carefully considered the additional points both sides  have provided. Ill set out my 
thoughts below focusing on the points I believe are material to the outcome of this complaint.
damage not caused by escape of water
The points RSA has raised in response  to my provisional decision arent new. I addressed 
these arguments  in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN70759075I understand what RSA has said about how mould  and mildew  forms and grows.  But looking 
at all of the available evidence, I dont believe that the mould and mildew  wouldve grown 
and spread, were  it not for the ongoing  escape of water beneath  the floor. 
RSA says that warm, humid and damp  conditions  allowed the mould to thrive. But Ive seen  
no evidence that these conditions wouldve existed were it not for the escape of water. On 
balance, I think the escape of water  is the primary cause of the mould and mildew. Therefore 
I think the mould and mildew is damage  caused  by an escape of water  and is covered 
under Mr Bs policy.
property unoccupied for 60 days  in a row
Again the points RSA has raised  about  this issue have been  addressed  in my provisional.  
I accept that Mr B was away  for 63 days,  and that his policy  does contain this exclusion. But 
the evidence available  indicates that the escape  of water had been ongoing for many  
months if not years. This means that damage was occurring for a long period of time before 
the property was unoccupied. So I dont think its fair for RSA to decline Mr Bs claim, in full, 
based on this exclusion because any damage  caused while  the property was occupied  
should be covered.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I didnt think  it likely  RSA would able to determine 
which damage was caused and when.  And in response to my provisional decision RSA 
hasnt made  any attempt to try and evidence this. So in the particular  circumstances of this 
case, I think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require RSA to cover all of the damage 
 including  damage which may have occurred during the 63 day period.
RSA has also reiterated its point that Mr B was aware of mould  and mildew issues before he 
went away. But as Ive explained, Mr B sought the advice of more  than one expert at the 
time. Based on the advice he received he went away  under the reasonable impression that 
the issues had been resolved. So this point doesnt  change my conclusions.
compensation for trouble  and upset
Mr B doesnt  agree  that £300 is sufficient to recognise the impact  the issues had on his 
wifes health or the stress of needing  to live in hotels while the claim was being considered.
Ive thought carefully about these points.  But from what Ive seen it was Mr Bs choice to stay 
in the house for several weeks before notifying RSA about the claim.  And I note that Mrs B 
was admitted to hospital during this time. As RSA hadnt yet been notified about  the claim it 
couldnt have  taken any action, such as arranging  alternative accommodation for 
Mr and Mrs B. So I dont  think it would be fair to hold RSA responsible for the impact living in 
the property during that time had on Mrs Bs health.
In terms of the stress caused while living in hotels,  I appreciate that having to live away from 
their home will have  been distressing for Mr and Mrs B. But experiencing an insured event in 
ones home  is always  going to cause  distress and inconvenience to some degree.  Insurers 
arent responsible for the distress caused by the event occurring, or during the reasonable 
time it takes to assess a claim. However, I do think Mr B has experienced trouble and upset 
as a result  of RSAs  decision to decline  the claim  which I dont think  was fair. So I still think 
it should pay £300 to compensate for this.
Ref: DRN70759076my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should:
reconsider Mr Bs claim on the basis that the damage was caused by the escape of 
water and the exclusions covered in my decisions dont  apply  and settle the claim 
in line with the remaining terms of the policy
pay Mr B £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced as a result of its initial 
decision to decline the claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7075907