K820x#14Complaint
Mr B, in his capacity as trustee of a family  trust, complains that Countrywide Assured Plc 
delayed liquidating an investment bond held in the trust, causing  a loss.
Background
The policyholders took out an investment bond  in 1985 which was held in trust. The bond 
became payable upon the second death of the lives assured.  Sadly, the remaining life 
assured passed  away in August 2018,  so the trustees notified  Countrywide and began the 
process of cashing  in the bond.
Countrywide told the trustees what information it would need in order  to proceed.  Mr B 
provided as much documentation  as he could to Countrywide on 20 September 2018, but 
Countrywide couldnt verify the bank account  until 18 October  2018.  The proceeds of the 
bond were sent to the trustees bank account  on 13 November 2018.
Mr B complained. He said the value of the bond  had decreased because of delays.
Countrywide said it couldnt proceed  with liquidating the bond until it had all of the necessary 
documents. It said the claim  was processed based  on a price  date of 19 October 2018, but 
the funds ought to have  been  released  sooner. So, it offered interest at 8% from 19 October 
to 13 November 2018 and £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B referred the complaint to our service. He thought Countrywide  ought to have liquidated 
the assets as soon  as it had received the documents hed sent on 20 September  2018.  This 
was because the outstanding information at that point only related  to the bank account. Mr B 
thought Countrywide  had enough to proceed with selling the assets held within  the bond and 
in any event, it owed  the beneficiaries a duty of care to protect their interest in the bond. He 
also thought Countrywide couldve communicated with him by email to avoid any further 
unnecessary delays.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought it was reasonable for Countrywide 
to wait for all of the requested information before proceeding with the claim. He also didnt 
think it was unreasonable for it to communicate with Mr B by letter.  Overall,  he thought the 
compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed  to me to make final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it as I 
think Countrywide has already done  enough  to put things right here.  Ill explain why.
Mr B has raised several issues  so Ill address each in turn.
Delays in processing  documents  and method of communication
Mr B feels  that Countrywide  caused  unnecessary delays for several reasons. Hes said that 
it didnt respond to the documents  he sent on 20 September 2018  until 8 October  2018, and 
instead of emailing to explain what was needed,  it wrote to him. Mr B says in his letter of 
Ref: DRN7484815220 September 2018 hed told Countrywide he was going to be overseas until mid-October,  
so he asked it to email him if it needed  further information. This meant  he wasnt  able to 
provide the necessary extra information  required  to verify the bank account until 
17 October 2018. Mr B also says Countrywide  couldve  contacted his bank directly,  as hed 
given the relevant details in his letter.
I understand Mr B couldnt provide the requested bank statement as it was a newly opened 
account. But I can see that Countrywide told Mr B that it could pay the funds to Mr Bs own 
account or that it could split the funds and pay them separately to each  trustee. Ive seen a 
letter Countrywide sent to Mr B on 11 September 2018 explaining this. Furthermore,  
Countrywides letter of 23 August  2018 made Mr B aware of the documents  it needed before 
it could agree to the proceed  with the claim. So, by choosing to open  a new account,  I think  
Mr B wouldve  known  that this couldve led to a problem as Mr B wouldnt be able to provide 
the requested  bank  statement.
Mr B has said it is bad practice for a trustee  to comingle trust assets with his own. For this 
reason, he and the other trustee  preferred to open  a new joint account instead. I cant  fault 
Mr B and the other trustee for taking that decision. But because  Mr B asked for the funds to 
be paid to a joint account for which he wouldnt be able to provide a bank statement, I think 
he couldve  foreseen the problems he would encounter. I would generally expect a customer  
to mitigate any problems where they are foreseeable.  With that in mind,  I think  it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr B to have pre-empted  any such problem and phoned  Countrywide  
before sending the documents  on 20 September 2018. If he had done so, Countrywide  
couldve explained what else it could accept  in place of the statement. I think this wouldve 
been particularly  important given Mr B was going  to be abroad  for around three weeks and 
so might not be able to provide the extra information until he returned.
Mr B said the letter of 11 September 2018 followed a call hed made.  He said this showed 
hed made  appropriate enquiries  about the bank statement issue.  Countrywide provided  a 
copy of the call made on 7 September 2018. In the call Mr B explained that he and the other  
trustee didnt have a joint bank  account  so he asked whether the money could be paid 
equally into two separate accounts.  Although this shows Mr B knew he had an issue  with the 
bank account,  I dont think it shows he asked Countrywide what he could provide instead of 
a bank statement  if he decided to open a new joint account. So, I dont think this call makes 
a material difference.  I appreciate Mr B ultimately  decided against asking Countrywide to pay 
the funds to personal accounts, but the fact remains that this was an option available to him 
that wouldve  avoided  any other  delays. And I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Countrywide to offer this option to him.
 
I appreciate Mr B found Countrywides response to his letter  of 20 September 2018 
unhelpful. Mr B had suggested  Countrywide  call his bank if it needed any extra information. 
But I dont think its reasonable to have  expected  Countrywide to do this on Mr Bs behalf 
and, in any event,  I think  its unlikely Countrywide  wouldve  been  able to answer the banks 
security questions. I know Countrywide  replied by letter  rather  than emailing Mr B, which  
wouldve saved time. But Countrywide has taken the decision to only correspond with 
customers in writing  by letter  I cant fault it for that choice  although  I appreciate on this 
occasion it caused Mr B inconvenience.
 
Countrywide has told us that it takes up to 10 working days to process and respond to post. 
I can see Mr Bs letter  was received  on 21 September  2018  and Countrywide  replied on 
8 October 2018  so it took it 11 working days to respond. Although outside of the usual 
Ref: DRN74848153processing time by a day, I dont think this delay was significant. And as Ive said above, 
I think it couldve been avoided in any event.
To my mind,  it was the decision to ask Countrywide  to pay the funds to a newly  opened 
account rather than an existing one, which has led to the main delay here. And as I think  
Mr B couldve avoided  this, I dont think Countrywide  should  compensate  the beneficiaries  of 
the trust for the drop in the investment value.
Its clear that Countrywide had received  all of the required documentation by 
18 October 2018, but it failed to release the funds  until 13 November 2018. Overall,  I think  
the 8% interest  Countrywide has offered to reflect the delay in releasing  the funds and the 
£150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Failure to liquidate assets on receipt  of main documents and act in best interest
Mr B says that irrespective of the time it took Countrywide to verify  the bank account, it ought  
to have sold the assets within the bond on receipt of the documents on September 2018.  He 
says the only outstanding  information related to where the funds should be sent  
Countrywide had enough to verify the identity of the trustees and pay the claim. He also says 
Countrywide owed  the beneficiaries a duty of care and so shouldve acted sooner to protect 
the value of the bond in light of the market conditions.
I appreciate that in an underperforming market Mr B would have preferred the fund to have 
been crystallised sooner. But Countrywides procedure is to only accept a claim when all of 
the relevant documents  have been  provided.  This procedure was made  clear  to Mr B at the 
outset in the letter of 23 August 2018.  And I dont think it was unreasonable  to apply its 
procedure on this occasion. If there were any ambiguity in that procedure  this would likely 
lead to further problems and disputes about  investment  loss or potential gains, as any 
decision about when  to sell investments  could  be questioned. There  can be no dispute  about 
the value of an investment if the rules  are applied consistently and fairly. And I dont think  
any duty of care Countrywide owed took precedence over the procedure in place.
In this instance, Im satisfied Countrywide required further information and so it couldnt  have 
sold the investments  before 18 October  2018. Countrywide was clear  with Mr B about what 
information was needed to process  the claim,  so if he had any concerns about the 
underlying value of the funds decreasing, I think Mr B couldve taken the above-mentioned 
steps to ensure the claim was processed  without delay.
In light of the above, I dont think Countrywide needs to do anymore to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of the 
trust to accept or reject  my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7484815