K820x#14Complaint
Mr I1 has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  refused to refund 
transactions which he didnt authorise.
Mr I2, his son, represents him.
Background
Mr I1 is aged over 80. He has dementia  and macular degeneration.
Mr I1 appointed  his son, Mr I2, as attorney under  a power of attorney in March 2018. Mr I2 
obtained his dads bank statements. He was concerned to see multiple weekly  and daily 
cash withdrawals and payments for items which his father didnt need or benefit from. He 
believes his dads stepdaughter has been  financially abusing  Mr I1, using coercive  control. 
He says his father lost approximately  £62,000  from his accounts as a result of her behaviour.  
He said Halifax shouldve  noticed that the transactions on his account were  unusual and out 
of character for Mr I1. He also found  out that there were two attempts in December 2011 to 
remove money from Mr I1s account  by cheque  and telephone banking.  He said Halifax were 
on notice from this point  that his father was vulnerable  and at risk of fraud, yet it took no 
steps to protect  him.
Mr I2 reported his concerns to Halifax. He said an agent told him he would get a full refund, 
but he didnt. He complained to Halifax. He asked for a full refund of the card transactions 
from 2011. He also complained about the poor service hed received.
Halifax investigated his complaint and partially  upheld it. It said:  -
the transactions were made by chip and PIN and were highly trusted as being  
legitimate
Mr I1 gave his step-daughter the debit card and PIN
it didnt know Mr I1 was vulnerable until July 2017.
However, Halifax acknowledged that it should  have done more to protect Mr I1 after 
receiving a safeguarding  report in July 2017. It agreed to refund  all card transactions  from 8 
July 2017, totalling £4,000. It also agreed  to pay a total of £1,072.00 for misleading Mr I2 into 
thinking he would get a full refund and for his wasted  telephone calls.
Mr I2 wasnt happy with Halifaxs  decision, so he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt  uphold it. She concluded  that Halifax  
had handled  Mr I1s complaint fairly by offering £1,072 in compensation for the poor service, 
and a refund  of £4,000  for the card transactions made after July 2017.
Mr I2 disagreed with the investigators view. Hed asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71218472When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote two views. The second  view sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  
the evidence and importantly, the relevant  regulations. I asked the investigator to issue a 
second view because she didnt  include  the relevant regulations in her first view,  yet they are 
a material consideration in my determination. Mr I2 needed to know what those regulations 
say and how they help me reach  my decision.  Both Mr I2 and Halifax  have read the 
investigators views, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of 
my decision.  However, I can assure both that Ive read the file, including  their comments  and 
evidence.
I need to make it clear  from the outset that this service is an informal  alternative  dispute 
resolution service. We do make detailed enquiries of banks, but we dont carry out anything 
like a criminal  or forensic investigation.  My task is, firstly, to determine whether the 
transactions were  authorised (which  I will go on to explain) and then whether there  were  any 
signs of financial abuse or fraud which the bank  shouldve  noticed. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2009 and 2017  and the terms and conditions  of the customers  
account. And I have  taken  that into account when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
The Payment Services Regulations also require  banks to refund  any transactions which a 
customer didnt authorise.  So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider  is whether the customer made  the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we wouldnt generally  
ask the bank to refund  them.
But the regulations are not the only consideration.
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
 identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers  in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  by the 
FCA in recent years  and by the British Bankers  Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
 identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also recognised  
by the British Standards Institutes October  2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm 
as a result  of fraud or financial  abuse   Code of Practice, which  a number of banks and 
trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
 follow the Banking Protocol when a customer attends a branch.
Ref: DRN71218473This means  that there are circumstances where  a bank  should, in my opinion, fairly  and 
reasonably take additional  steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases decline to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably under the 
regulations and whether it should have  done more than it did.
So, to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions,  as 
well as what both Halifax and Mr I2 have  told us. 
Did Mr I1 authorise  the disputed  transactions?
Mr I2 is disputing all card transactions since 2011. They were chip and PIN transactions,  
which means they were  made with his dads  genuine debit card and his PIN. I understand Mr 
I2 accepts that his dad gave his card and PIN to his stepdaughter so theres no dispute his 
card was used.
Under the relevant regulations, a payment transaction is regarded as having been 
authorised by the payer if the payer  has given his consent to the execution of the payment  
transaction. The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given  in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and his payment service 
provider. The form and procedure  are usually set out in the terms and conditions. Typically,  
its the use of the card and PIN, telephone  or online banking.
In summary,  this means  that Mr I1 is treated as having consented to the transactions  if he 
allowed his step-daughter to use his card and PIN.
But thats not all. The regulations also say that Halifax  doesnt have to refund the disputed 
transactions if Mr I1 intentionally did something, which he shouldnt  do under the terms and 
conditions, such as giving his card and PIN to his step-daughter. This is because the terms 
and conditions say that customers must not share their banking details or instruments (such  
as a debit card) with third parties.
So, under the regulations, Halifax isnt obliged to refund the disputed  transactions because  
either
Mr I1 authorised the disputed card payments when he allowed his step-daughter to 
use his card and PIN, or
he failed with intent  to comply with the terms and conditions  to keep his banking  
details safe.
In most cases that is the end of the complaint. The consumer will be held liable for the 
disputed transactions.  However, there  are occasions when a customer  depends  on a third 
party, such  as a carer,  for help. And so, in exceptional situations,  where  there are obvious  
signs of financial abuse or fraud, which the bank  failed to act on, then I may consider 
whether its fair and reasonable for it to refund some or all of the disputed  transactions
Should Halifax  have noticed fraud or financial abuse or control?
Ref: DRN71218474Halifax said it didnt know Mr I1 had dementia  or was vulnerable until July 2017 when it 
received a safeguarding report.  I can look at the transactions on his account to determine  
whether they were  out of character, but its far more difficult to say Halifax shouldve  inferred 
he was vulnerable solely from the transactions  and especially given the passage of time. 
Some of the transactions are now nine years  old.
I dont have any statements before 2011  so I dont know what  Mr I1s spending habit was 
like and I cant make any comparisons.  I agree that the multiple cash withdrawals on a 
weekly and sometimes daily basis seem inconsistent for his profile. But Halifax  wouldnt 
have been monitoring  his account according to his individual  profile. Its our experience that 
banks will look out for particular types of transactions,  for example to a merchant  who has 
been identified  as a fraudster. In this case, the transactions were ATM withdrawals and 
payments to high street  shops  and merchants. There was nothing  which  stood out as 
suspicious or unusual except perhaps the frequency  of the cash withdrawals. 
Halifax was sending Mr I1 his monthly  bank statements.  I can see these were  posted to the 
same address we have  on file. However,  he didnt  raise any concerns. Also,  theres no 
evidence Mr I1 didnt  benefit from some of the cash withdrawals. And I cant  rule out the 
possibility that he wanted to give some  money  to his step-daughter. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Halifax didnt identify the cash withdrawals and payments as suspicious.
There were two attempts  in December 2011  to transfer money  from his account to another  
account by cheque and by telephone  banking.  Halifax  detected  the fraud and stopped  
money leaving his account. The banks notes  record that Mr I1 confirmed the fraud  in visit to 
the branch the next day. Ive seen no evidence  the beneficiary account was in his step-  
daughters name. Halifax was in contact with Mr I1 at the time. He called again  in February 
2012 to set up a direct  debit. It appears, therefore, that he was able to give instructions. 
Again, there was no obvious reason for it to suspect he was vulnerable. Besides, the GP 
letter which Ive seen  dates the onset of his dementia in 2013.
Mr I2 believes Halifax shouldve taken steps  in 2011 to protect  his dad because of the 
attempted fraud  but he doesnt  say what it shouldve done. One option might  have  been  to 
suggest that he appoint an attorney under a power  of attorney. But Mr I2 wasnt speaking  to 
his dad in 2011 and the most obvious person to appoint as an attorney wouldve been the 
stepdaughter, which we now know wouldve been  unwise. However, I think  its more likely 
that Mr I1 wouldve  decided he didnt need a power of attorney or any other restrictions  on 
his account. He didnt ask for additional security after the attempted fraud. The banks  notes 
show he was satisfied  with telephone  banking and a debit  card and PIN.
Im afraid banks cant be expected to know if a customer is vulnerable  if they have no 
information. They are reliant on the customer, family members or public  authorities,  such  as 
social services  or even the police, for information. And in the absence of information or 
documents, such as a power of attorney, banks  must follow  the customers  instruction as 
given by the use of the card and PIN. And Im afraid that finding evidence  of fraud after four 
to ten years  is always going to be a difficult task. Mr I1 really  needed  an advocate when  his 
health started to deteriorate. Unfortunately, he didnt have one at that time.
For all these reasons, I consider that Halifaxs decision  to refuse a refund of transactions 
before July 2017 is a fair and reasonable one. Ive also considered the level of compensation 
for its poor service. I think its commensurate with the trouble and upset caused to Mr I1 and 
more than this service would normally recommend. I wont  be asking Halifax  to increase it.
Ref: DRN71218475Im sorry  for what has happened  to Mr I1 and I regret giving them disappointing  and 
unwelcome news. Ive no doubt this has been a painful and upsetting  experience for both, 
but I hope the reasons  for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7121847