K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the customer service they received from Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  when  they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their insurance policy. There were a number of issues  with 
the customer service they received including the length of time it took Admiral to sort out the 
claim, the state  of the car when it was returned,  poor communication  and Admiral  not doing 
what they said they would do. Admiral said they agreed with all the concerns Mr and Mrs M 
had raised. So they offered £250 compensation to reflect this and apologised.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought  £250  was a fair offer and 
reflected the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs M. They didnt agree because they 
said it didnt reflect the stress they were under due to the poor customer  service  they 
experienced. They said that it look 11 days to get the car back, they missed work 
unnecessarily, Admiral didnt return the car in a drive-able condition  and they constantly had 
to chase for updates. So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say Admiral has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  As Ive outlined above Admiral  has agreed with all the concerns Mr and 
Mrs M raised.  So they agree the customer  service  fell below the standard  theyd  expect. 
The key issue in this case is whether  £250 compensation fairly reflects  the trouble  and upset 
Mr and Mrs M experienced as a result of what went wrong. I think it does  because: 
Mr and Mrs M had to wait longer than they should to get their car back. But Admiral  
did arrange a hire car for several  days as a gesture of goodwill as they 
acknowledged there had been a delay. So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs M didnt 
have their own car back, I think Admiral took reasonable steps to provide a 
replacement
When the car was returned to Mr and Mrs M it still had smashed glass in it. So Mr 
and Mrs M had to contact Admiral again and had to arrange for the car to be valeted.  
Admiral paid for the car to be valeted  and allowed Mr and Mrs M to keep the hire car 
which I think was reasonable
I understand how frustrating it must have been  for Mr and Mrs M to take time off work  
unnecessarily. And I can see Mr and Mrs M also had to chase for updates which  
was no doubt  stressful and frustrating. But I think an award of £250 fairly  reflects the 
trouble and upset  they experienced as a result  of what  went  wrong here.  So Im not 
going to direct Admiral  to make  a further award for compensation. 
Ref: DRN73691992my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Admiral Insurance Company Limited  as I 
think the offer theyve  made is fair. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7369199