K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited  (UKI)  handled  their home 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs K hold a home  insurance  policy thats underwritten by UKI. They  made a claim 
under the contents element of the policy  for the repair of an iPad that was damaged  
following a break  in at their home.  
UKI appointed Data Validation Services (DVS) to handle the claim, who deemed the iPad 
to be beyond economical repair. Mr and Mrs K requested that the device be sent back  to 
them so they could back up their files, but unfortunately, DVS had wiped the iPad of all its 
data and disposed  of it before giving them a chance  to save  the data.
Mr and Mrs K complained that they had been  lied to, given false information and had their 
property wrongly destroyed, which has led to the loss of irreplaceable files such as family 
memories and various projects  they were  working  on. UKI apologised for destroying  the iPad 
without gaining Mr and Mrs Ks permission and offered a total of £500 compensation as well 
as a replacement  iPad.  They also offered to cover  any costs  involved in attempting to 
retrieve the lost data. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service, as they feel 
this has had much more of a significant  impact, such that they should be awarded 
compensation within the region of £20,000  to £30,000. But our investigator  didnt uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. She acknowledged  that UKIs actions had caused them a great 
deal of trouble  and upset, but ultimately  felt the £500 offered was fair. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider the offer of 
£500 to be fair compensation  in the circumstances. 
It isnt disputed that UKI and their agents made  a significant error  in this case, so I dont  feel 
it necessary to explore the facts  relating to what happened any further. But its clear that 
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the compensation offered. And having  reviewed  
Mr and Mrs Ks submissions, its clear theyve suffered as a result  of losing the memories 
and information  that was stored on the iPad.  I can see that it has delayed  the various 
property projects they were involved in, for example, and has meant  that theyve had to take 
time off work in order  to recover some of the information that could be replaced.  And Ive 
also been able to get a sense of the emotional  pain Mr and Mrs K have  suffered  as a result  
of losing some of their treasured family memories stored on the device, which  they say has 
had an impact on Mrs Ks health.  But I have  to consider whether, in the circumstances, the 
compensation offered is proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
Ref: DRN73549502reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award the extreme level of compensation Mr and Mrs K are looking  for, I would have  to be 
satisfied that the wrongful actions of UKI and/or their agents  have  had a far greater impact 
than the trouble and upset theyve experienced to date.
I appreciate the experience of losing  all their files wouldve been wholly upsetting for 
Mr and Mrs K, particularly  having  suffered a recent break in to their property. But there is 
always a real risk with storing data electronically  that files can be lost or accidentally wiped. 
And while I understand it was UKIs error  that caused the loss of the data in these 
circumstances, such an incident highlights the importance of ensuring that any important 
files are regularly backed  up, particularly when the device in question  is being sent for repair 
or reconfiguration.  So while I appreciate the impact  the error has had on Mr and Mrs K, I 
cant fairly hold UKI responsible for all such consequential  losses  that stem from losing data 
that had not been backed  up for the five year period in which Mr and Mrs K had the iPad.
I also note that Mr and Mrs K say they want further compensation in order  to make UKI 
accountable for what theyve done. However,  an award of this nature isnt intended to punish  
a business. Only the regulator  i.e. the Financial Conduct Authority   can fine authorised  
firms. And I can see that UKI have apologised and looked to put things right for 
Mr and Mrs K as far as they can by apologising, replacing the iPad and offering 
compensation. I know this wont replace some of the work and memories theyve lost  and it 
can be difficult to put a price on such things.  But for the impact UKIs actions have had, I 
consider an award  of £500 to be fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
UK Insurance Limited  have made  an offer to pay £500. I conclude  that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs K 
within 28 days of receiving their acceptance of this decision. 
Mr and Mrs K should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding  on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between Mr and Mrs K and UKI as to whether the £500 
offer still remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7354950