K821x#15complaint
Miss G says that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was intending to uphold  Miss Gs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Miss G or FICL sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons and I uphold  this complaint..
what the business needs  to do
FICL should put Miss G in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  shed have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss G would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss G would  have owed each month without  PPI    
Miss G paid more  than enough to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss G paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Miss G wouldve owed  FICL  something  on her store  card. The interest  rate should 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss G what its done to work out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN78884262 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss G says Financial Insurance Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Ref: DRN78884263This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy Miss G took out in 1996. It was added  to her account 
when she applied for the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case. 
Im currently  intending to uphold  Miss Gs complaint because:
This was a sale where FICL werent making a recommendation to take PPI. But FICL still had to give 
Miss G good  enough information so she could  decide if the policy was right for her and if she wanted 
to take the policy. But from what Ive seen and been told I dont think FICL  did that.    
I say this because, having considered the store card application form and other documentation  from 
the sale,  I cant see that FICL  gave  Miss G clear enough information on how much the policy would  
cost, or what  the benefit  would be if she made a successful claim.
I think  this wouldve mattered to Miss G because shes told us that she wouldve  received some sick 
pay from her employer  and then been able to claim on a Permanent Health  Insurance  policy (PHI) 
arranged through her employer. 
Ive seen evidence of the PHI and it would pay out 70% of Miss Gs salary for an indefinite period.  
If FICL  had given Miss G the information that they shouldve, I think  that Miss G wouldve felt that she 
probably couldve  met her store  card repayments for a while  without this PPI policy.    
I also think  that if Miss G had been given all the information that she shouldve by FICL, she wouldnt 
have thought  the policy would add enough to her existing  means  to be good  value for her.
So, in this particular case, having considered  everything, I think  Miss G probably  wouldnt have  
wanted the policy if FICL  had given her good enough information - and she wouldnt have taken it out.
putting things  right
FICL should put Miss G in the financial  position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much shed  have owed when she closed her store card account if 
the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those  charges.  
FICL should then refund the difference between what Miss G owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN78884264If Miss G made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss G would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should 8% a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Miss G would  have owed  each month without PPI    Miss G 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss G paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss G wouldve  
owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should  8% a year.
D. FICL should tell Miss G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss G a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently intend to uphold Miss Gs complaint.
If either Miss G or Financial  Insurance  Company Limited have  anything further to add, they should do 
so by 12 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7888426