K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the administration and management of his credit  card account by 
Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One).
background
On 16 May 2019 Mr G took a cash advance from his credit  card account of £30.
On 17 May 2019 Mr G took two cash advances from his credit  card account of £30 each.
Mr G says he took the above three  cash advances based on his mobile banking app 
showing, at the material  time, that he had a credit limit of £900 (rather  than £750).
On 18 May 2019 Mr G says his mobile  banking app was showing he had a credit limit of 
£750 and that his account was over  limit.
Mr G complained to Capital One. Capital One responded to say that it hadnt  increased 
Mr Gs credit limit and there had been  no recorded  problems with its mobile  banking  app on 
the days in question. It also said that it authorised the three cash  advances (although the 
first took Mr G over limit and the second and third took him further over limit) because not to 
have done so might have  caused Mr G difficulties.
Mr G was unhappy with Capital Ones response to his complaint so referred it to our service.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it shouldnt  be 
upheld.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusion so his complaint has been  passed to me 
for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  given the evidence  that is available  and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
I accept I cant  say for certain  that Mr G is wrong  in his submission that his mobile banking  
app showed, for a few days, that he had an increased credit limit of £900. But I find 
Capital Ones submission  that no such increase was granted and that there  was no 
problems with its mobile banking app at the material time to be more plausible and more 
persuasive. 
I might  have  also expected Mr G to have  provided  further evidence  in support of his 
submission than he has, for example,  a letter or email from Capital One confirming a credit 
limit increase, or the same being  marked on his credit file. 
Finally had Mr G understood that his credit  limit had been increased to £900 from £750 I 
might have expected  him to have made one cash advance of £90 on one day, rather  than 
three separate ones of £30 over two days.
Ref: DRN75088522I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed, but given what I say above  I find that Capital One 
didnt, on the balance of probabilities, mislead  Mr G as he submits.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.  
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7508852