K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1997  when she applied  for a mortgage.
background
Miss C took out a mortgage in 1997,  and alongside it a monthly  paid PPI policy, at a meeting 
with the building society. The policy gave her accident, sickness  and unemployment cover. It 
cost around £27 per month. It wouldve covered her mortgage repayments of around £400 
per month for up to 12 months  per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C didnt  accept our adjudicators  view and 
so her complaint  has been passed to me to consider. She said,  in summary,  she was 
pressurised into taking out the PPI and didnt need  or want  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that Miss C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold  her 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Miss C had to agree to take it. I 
cant know what was discussed at the meeting with Nationwide. I wasnt there.  Miss Cs said,  
in summary, she was pressurised into taking out the insurance  by the branch managers line 
of questioning and insistence,  until she signed to take PPI.  She said this was her first 
mortgage, and that she didnt need  PPI.
As well as listening to what Miss Cs said Ive seen  the paperwork she signed at the time. 
Ive also seen her mortgage  offer. It wasnt a condition of the mortgage  that she took PPI. 
The paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional. I think from what Miss Cs said she 
understood that she had a choice about  taking PPI, but she felt under  pressure  to do so.
Ive considered what shes said very carefully.  This is a very subjective, because  what  one 
person might  consider a reasonable line of enquiry  to enable  the customer to consider 
whether PPI is right for them, another may not. From what  Miss Cs said the branch 
manager said, I dont  have enough  to persuade  me that he put pressure on her to take out a 
policy that she did not want or need. I think it equally likely that he persuaded her to think 
about whether  PPI was appropriate for her given her circumstances.  So, I cant fairly uphold 
Miss Cs complaint on this ground.  
From what  Ive seen and heard, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the policy to Miss C, so it didnt have to check  PPI 
was suitable for her needs. But, Nationwide did need to give Miss C clear information about  
the PPI so she could  decide whether she wanted to buy it. To avoid any doubt  however, 
Ref: DRN78299332even if Nationwide  advised Miss C to take out the policy, I cant  see that this wouldve been 
unsuitable advice.  I think the policy was appropriate  for her because:
She was eligible for the PPI  that is, she qualified to be covered by the insurance;
Miss C wasnt  affected by the main limitations  or exclusions in the policy so she couldve  
benefitted from everything the policy  offered.  So, I cant see that having better 
information about this wouldve changed  her decision to take out PPI;
Miss C said she was working and entitled to sick pay.  The policy  wouldve paid out on 
top of her work  benefits, and possibly  for longer, for up to 24 months per successful 
claim. So, I still think it couldve  provided  her with a useful  benefit  in her circumstances. It 
wouldve allowed her to use her work  benefits to meet other household expenses if she 
was out of work. Given that the policy was protecting her home, likely her single largest 
asset, and she could make repeat claims on the policy, I think PPI couldve provided her 
with a valuable  benefit.
Ive taken into account that she said she had savings. The PPI wouldve allowed her to 
use her savings for other household  expenses. She said her family couldve helped  with 
her repayments. Whilst I accept they may have wanted to, help of this kind cant always 
be guaranteed  when  the time comes, so I havent placed much reliance on this. So, I 
cant see that her other  resources  made  the policy unsuitable for her.
Its possible that Nationwide couldve made  the costs of the policy clearer. But, it seems 
likely she thought  the cost was acceptable  and affordable given that she signed to say 
she wanted PPI. It was a monthly  paid policy so she couldve cancelled it at any time 
without losing out financially.
I dont think Miss C has lost out because  of anything that Nationwide mayve done  wrong.  
Ive taken into account everything that Miss C has said, but this doesnt change  my view
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7829933