K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Covea Insurance plc cancelled  his motor insurance  policy  from the day 
after he made a claim  (voided it) and declined his claim. Hes also unhappy  that it took back 
his courtesy car and didnt tell him what was happening with his claim. He wants his claim 
paid and compensation for being without a courtesy car.  
background
Mr L made a claim on his policy following an accident. He said he agreed to have his car 
repaired at Coveas approved garage so that he would  have a courtesy car whilst repairs  
were made. Covea then found that Mr L had three  undisclosed claims when he took out his 
policy. Mr L didnt return his courtesy car to the garage. The police called on Mr L to recover  
the courtesy car but he said the policy allowed for up to 28 days. Covea said Mr L had made 
a careless misrepresentation and it voided the policy from the day after the claim. It retained 
his premiums because  of the fault claim. It said it had told Mr L to return  the courtesy  car, but 
he hadnt done this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr L 
had been asked a clear  question about  previous claims  but he hadnt answered this 
correctly. She thought  Covea wouldnt have offered cover if it had known of the claims. And 
so she thought it was entitled to void the policy. She thought Covea  hadnt  made  a mistake 
with the courtesy  car. She thought  Covea  had reasonably apologised for not keeping Mr L 
up to date. But she didnt  think Covea needed to pay Mr L any compensation.  
Mr L replied that he wanted  his complaint  reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come  to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration that his policy was voided  when he thought hed done 
what was required.  I can see that he needs  a car for his work. But Covea  said he hadnt  told 
it about his previous claims  and so it voided his policy. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
Mr L applied for his policy online through a comparison site and then completed the 
purchase over the telephone. Ive seen  a screenshot of the question asked online about 
previous claims or incidents within the last five years. I think this is clear and the importance 
of providing the correct  answer is emphasised. 
Mr L is adamant that he wasnt asked about  any previous claims when he took out his policy. 
Hes explained that his information  was pre-populated by the comparison site. But I think  it 
was for Mr L to keep  his information on the site updated. It wouldnt be aware of important 
changes such as claims, convictions or personal details. 
Ref: DRN77953872Mr L didnt disclose any previous claims within the past five years in the online form. He then 
called Covea to complete  the purchase. Mr L said he wasnt  then asked about previous 
claims. But I think its reasonable for Covea to rely on the accuracy of the information Mr L 
provided online and I think  it was for Mr L to reasonably answer these questions correctly.    
Covea then sent Mr L his policy documents. These told Mr L to check  the information hed 
provided for accuracy and let it know of any changes.  The Statement of Fact says that Mr L 
had no previous claims within the past five years. But Mr L did in fact have three fault claims 
within the past five years.  I think he should reasonably have been aware of these and 
disclosed them when asked about  them. Or he could have corrected this when  he received 
his policy  documents.  But I cant see that he did this.
Covea has provided  us with an extract from its underwriting criteria. From this I can see that 
if Mr L had disclosed the three fault claims,  then a policy wouldnt have been offered. So, 
under the relevant legislation, I think Covea  was entitled to void Mr Ls policy and decline the 
claim. I dont  require Covea to pay Mr Ls claim for his cars loss. 
Covea said the misrepresentation was careless, but it retained Mr Ls premiums  as this was 
a fault claim. I think thats fair and reasonable as its had to pay the other drivers claim.  
Mr L said he thought  he was entitled to a courtesy car under his policy.  He said the police 
had come to his door saying that hed stolen it when the garage still had his own car. He said 
hed never  been  asked  to return it as the claim was ongoing. Covea said Mr L had been 
advised more  than once to return the car as the car was deemed to be beyond economic 
repair. 
I can see that Mr Ls policy provides for a courtesy  car when his car is deemed repairable  
and its with the approved repairer.  Covea  explained that this was arranged  by the repairer, 
and I think its a policy entitlement  in the case of a repairable car being taken to an approved  
repairer. I think Covea explained this to Mr L when he told it about the claim. And I can see 
that Mr L was provided with a car whilst his car was assessed, but once it was deemed 
beyond economic repair I think Mr L was no longer entitled to keep it. 
The policy also states that a replacement hire car is made available for 21 days  in the case  
of total loss. But because Mr Ls policy was deemed  to be void, then this wouldnt apply. 
Mr L had a courtesy car from the garage and not a hire car. So theres no reason why he 
shouldnt have returned it when asked to. 
From Coveas notes and calls with Mr L, I can see that when he reported the accident Mr L 
stressed that he needed a courtesy car. Covea explained what his policy  provided and 
advised him to see what the approved repairer could offer.  When the car was deemed a total 
loss, the repairer  wanted the car back. It told Covea Mr L hadnt returned  the car and it 
would contact the police. The garage sent Mr L texts that it needed the car back.  But Mr L 
was away for work and couldnt return the car then.  Covea  told Mr L that he needed to sort 
this out with the garage. I think Covea left Mr L thinking he could retain the car whilst the 
claim was ongoing.  So Mr L didnt return the car immediately. 
I can understand Mr Ls embarrassment  when the police called following a report  of a stolen 
car. But I think hed been  fairly warned of this by Covea. I think Mr L was provided with a 
courtesy car beyond the limits of the policy terms and conditions.  So I cant  say that Covea 
should pay him any compensation for his being  without one. 
Ref: DRN77953873Mr L said Covea didnt  return his calls as he expected, that it didnt  tell him the outcome of 
the claim or that his policy had been  voided. But I can see that Covea wrote to Mr L in 
December 2018  at the address hed provided.  It told him that it had voided his policy due to 
misrepresentation of his previous claims and that it wouldnt  be making a payment for the 
claim. 
On the same  day, Covea sent Mr L its response to his complaint. It said this was returned 
undelivered so it emailed  the response. Mr L said he didnt receive this email.  I can see that 
Covea sent the letters  and email  to the addresses  on file. I heard Mr L confirm  the postcode  
when he took out his policy and the postal and email addresses later in the claim. In any 
case, Covea had already warned Mr L of the pending voidance in its calls with him. So I 
think Covea made him reasonably aware  of it. 
It took Covea some  time to check with the broker what questions  Mr L had been  asked about 
previous claims.  So Mr L didnt receive  the updates  he expected. On one occasion I think  
Covea didnt call Mr L back as it said it would.  It apologised for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything  further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7795387