K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
There is no documentation  available from the time of sale - this is understandable given the 
sale took place  over 25 years ago. BOS has provided a sample  application form that it says 
Mrs F is likely to have  seen at the time of sale, but the copy  isnt very clear.  However,  based  
on what I know about BOSs sales processes  at the time of sale, Mrs F would have had to 
select to take PPI and sign in agreement with it for it to be added to the credit card account. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think BOS made it clear  that Mrs F didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this now many years  later. 
Ive also considered what Mrs F has said about  PPI being hidden  from her at the point of 
sale. I think its likely that PPI wouldve  appeared on Mrs Fs monthly credit card statements 
and I think Mrs F wouldve  questioned why she was paying for PPI with BOS  if it was 
something she didnt  know anything about. But it seems Mrs F continued to pay PPI for 
some years after taking the policy out.
BOS have said it recommended  the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs F has told us she would not have received any sick pay from her employer at the time if 
she was too ill to work. But this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance of her 
account for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. So I still think the 
PPI would have  been useful to her.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs F has said her partner and mother  could have helped  her with 
payments, their support cant be relied upon  as their circumstances can also change, 
meaning they are unable  to provide such financial assistance.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. 
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:  
Ref: DRN75245002BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because BOS didnt tell Mrs F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs F any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524500