K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that the telematics  box associated with his motor  insurance policy, is
faulty. He doesnt think  he should  pay I Go 4 Ltd any charges or fees as a result of him
deciding to cancel  his policy.
background
Mr W took out an insurance policy through IGO4. The policy had a telematics box (also
known as a black  box) associated with it, which  monitored his driving. Mr W contacted IGO4
as he didnt think the box was recording his driving correctly. IGO4  said the box was
recording properly. As he still didnt think the box was recording his driving correctly Mr W
cancelled his policy.
IGO4 said there was an outstanding balance of £54.81 following the cancellation of the
policy. Mr W didnt  think he should be required to pay this, because hed only cancelled the
policy as he felt the box was faulty. When IGO4 refused to remove the balance from his
account, Mr W brought his complaint to us. He was also unhappy that the balance had been
passed to a debt recovery  agent.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained about the box and the associated fees upon cancellation. As the
insurer is responsible  for the box and IGO4 for most of the cancellation fees, Ive separated
these issues so they can be considered separately. In this decision Im going to focus on
Mr Ws complaint  about the fees IGO4 is responsible for.
Ive issued a separate  provisional  decision where Ive explained why Im not persuaded that
the box was faulty.  In this decision,  I therefore  need to consider whether its fair that IGO4
charge Mr W the fees associated with cancelling the policy.
Theres a general  principle that IGO4 needs  to treat its customers fairly. The Insurance
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) outlines that a firm can apply certain charges
upon cancellation as long as the consumer was made aware of the amount payable.  While
this is in relation  to the cooling off period, I also think its fair and reasonable to apply the
same principle to fees and charges  throughout  the life of the policy.  So, Ive looked at
whether the fees IGO4 have applied  were made  clear  when  it sold Mr W the policy.
IG04 said Mr W was charged the following on cancellation:
 £150 for the box [the new business  fee]
 £75 cancellation fee
 £236.33  in premium, which includes £91.54 commission and £42.88  interest
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws policy say that the new business  fee is £150  and that if
the policy is cancelled  IGO4 will charge a £75 cancellation fee. I think these are clear  and as
such I think its fair for IGO4 to charge them. Ive commented on the premium in my other
provisional decision, as thats  the responsibility  of the insurer.  The interest  is charged  by the
finance company,  so Mr W would need to complain about that separately  if he feels its
incorrect.
Ref: DRN76662762The policy says that the premium Mr W is charged  includes commission, which the insurer
pays to IGO4. The policy also says that if the policy is cancelled  after 14 days,  the
commission is non-refundable. While  I think IGO4  made it clear that commission  is non-
refundable, I dont  think its fair and reasonable for IGO4 to retain that commission  if it didnt
tell Mr W what  that amount would be. I say that because I dont think IGO4  is treating its
customers fairly if it tells them it will keep commission, but the customer has no way of
knowing what the amount of that commission is. It also means Mr W wasnt made aware  of
the amount payable  when  buying  the policy. I appreciate that ICOBS doesnt  require  IGO4  to
disclose the amount of commission it receives,  but if it chooses not to I dont think its fair
and reasonable for it to claw back that commission if the policy is cancelled, for the reasons
Ive mentioned.
As IGO4 didnt tell Mr W it would keep £91.54 in commission or a percentage of the premium
so he could work this out, I intend  to find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this
particular complaint is for IGO4 to reduce the outstanding balance by this amount. This
should lead to Mr W being refunded any amount hes now paid over the new total once this
reduction is applied.  Due to the time hes been without that money IGO4 should add interest
to any refund at a rate of 8% simple from the date the policy  was cancelled to the date it
makes payment. If Mr W has incurred any additional  costs,  interest  or adverse markers on
his record due to the outstanding amount being  passed to a debt recovery agent, this
amount should  be refunded and any markers removed.
IGO4 didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, it said it had set out the fees 
and charges at the point of sale, which included letting Mr W know that it would keep any 
commission. IGO4 said it had told Mr W it would retain any discounts that had been applied  
to his policy, which could  be £225.  IGO4 said if I required  it to refund commission this would 
appear to be in direct contradiction to ICOBS.  It also didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable to require  it to refund commission because  it said it had been transparent about 
its price and commission is the amount it charges for the handling  and administration of the 
policy. IGO4 added that Mr W could have asked about the level of commission and it was 
him who cancelled  the policy.  
Mr W replied to say that he didnt think he should  have to pay anything because  he didnt 
think the box was working. 
Before reaching my final decision our investigator also let Mr W know that any interest 
awarded would be from the date hed overpaid  for the policy and not from the date the policy  
was cancelled. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W still doesnt think the box was working. Ive issued a separate decision on 
that against the insurer who is responsible for the telematics box. 
Turning to IGO4s response. Ive considered the points it has made but Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional findings.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN76662763I understand that IGO4 isnt required to disclose  commission and that commission  is applied  
to cover handling and administration charges. However, I also need to consider whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I dont think it produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome for IGO4 to retain commission when the policy  is cancelled,  if it didnt tell Mr W how 
much that would be or let him know as a percentage of the premium, so he could work it out. 
I say that because it would mean hes being charged an amount that wasnt  clear when he 
bought his policy. And it means Mr W was entering into a contract  without fully 
understanding its terms. 
I appreciate that IGO4  set out that it would deduct  any discount it had applied  to the cost of 
the policy and that could  be £225.  But from what Ive seen, the discount isnt the same as 
commission. And the point about deducting the discount is set out separately to that about  
retaining commission in the terms and conditions.  
I dont think it makes  a difference that Mr W cancelled his policy rather than IGO4.  I say that 
because I think it would  have been fair and reasonable for IGO4  to have made  clear  the 
amount it would retain if the policy was cancelled.  I also wouldnt expect Mr W to have had to 
ask about this when buying his policy. 
I remain satisfied that IGO4 can charge a fair amount for the setting  up and cancelling of a 
policy. And I think these charges are fair in this particular case and they were also made 
clear when the policy was sold. 
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome  to this particular complaint is for IGO4  to 
reduce the balance on Mr Ws account  by £91.54. If this results in him having  overpaid, it 
should refund anything  additional hes paid, plus interest at 8% simple per annum. This 
should be from the date of any overpayment  and not the date of cancellation - as this would 
be the to the date Mr W was without  the money he should have had - to the date it makes 
payment. If any additional fees, interest or markers have been added  these should also be 
refunded or removed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require I Go 4 Ltd to reduce the balance  
on Mr Ws account by £91.54. If this results  in him having  overpaid, it should refund anything
additional hes paid,  plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr W made the over 
payment to the date it makes payment. If any additional fees,  interest or markers  have  been
added these should be refunded or removed.
If I Go 4 Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666276