K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy that when she deposited  a cheque with Santander UK Plc, it was credited 
to somebody elses account.  Ms S believes this is a breach of her data and her personal 
security. She believes this led to two fraudulent direct debit mandates being set up on her 
account. Ms S wants Santander to apologise  and pay compensation to her for these issues. 
background
Towards the end of March 2018 Ms S visited a branch of Santander to deposit a cheque  into 
her savings account. But just over a week later, after checking with Santander, she found out 
that the cheque hadnt  been credited to her account.  Instead,  it had been credited to 
somebody elses account. 
Around the same time Ms S noticed that a direct  debit payment had been made from her 
Santander current account to an insurance  company - and shed been  charged £10 when 
this payment didnt  go through.  Ms S knew nothing  about this payment. It seems the direct 
debit mandate  had been set up without her authorisation  by somebody else. 
Ms S complained to Santander.  The bank  arranged for her savings account to be correctly 
credited with the amount  of the cheque shed  paid in. It also cancelled  the unauthorised 
direct debit mandate, reversed the payment and waived the £10 fee. Santander  also offered 
Ms S £25 for the distress shed been  caused.  
Ms S wasnt happy with this response  and brought her complaint to our service.  Soon after 
this she told us that another unauthorised direct debit payment had been  made from her 
current account, this time to a gym. Ms S called Santander and it arranged for this payment 
to be reversed. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Ss complaint. She didnt think  the complaint should  
be upheld. In summary, she said: there was no dispute that Santander made a mistake by 
paying Ms Ss cheque  into the wrong  account, but it had quickly arranged for it to be paid 
into the correct account; the unauthorised payments  had been refunded along with the £10 
fee; and, the investigator didnt think Santander was to blame for the unauthorised direct  
debit mandates  being set up on Ms Ss current account. 
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators  view.  Again  in summary, she said shed had no 
problems with her account until she paid the cheque in at Santander   from that moment  her 
life was chaos.  As Ms S didnt agree  with the investigator, this complaint has been  passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Santander accepts  that the cheque Ms S paid in at the branch was credited to the wrong  
account. But I can see this was resolved and the money correctly credited to her savings 
account just over a week later. 
I dont doubt Ms S was concerned by this. But Im satisfied Santander put his right in a short 
space of time as soon  as it was made aware of the issue.  Due to the corrective  action  being  
Ref: DRN78343152carried out quickly, I think the banks offer of £25 for the distress caused to Ms S for this 
issue is fair. 
Ill now turn to the matter of the unauthorised  direct  debit mandates. I know Ms S feels very 
strongly that this issue is linked to her cheque being  credited to the wrong  account.  But after 
looking at all the available evidence, Im not satisfied these  two events are linked. 
Ms S says Santander  committed  a data breach when it paid her cheque into somebody 
elses account. But Ive looked at the details the other account  holders would have seen  
when Ms Ss cheque  credited their account. This would have shown the amount of the credit 
and what branch the cheque had been paid in at. There would have been no information  
relating to Ms Ss savings  account or any of her other details whatsoever.  
Also, I can see it was Ms Ss savings account that was involved when the cheque was 
credited to the wrong account. But the two unauthorised direct debit mandates  were set up 
on a different account - her current account, not her savings account. 
In addition, Ms S paid the cheque in at the Santander branch towards the end of March 
2018. I can see that the unauthorised direct  debit to the insurance company was set up 
nearly a week before  the cheque was paid in. 
As none of Ms Ss details  were included in the credit to the wrong account, and as the first 
unauthorised direct  debit  mandate was set up before she paid the cheque  into Santander, 
Im satisfied these events arent connected to each  other. I think  the timing of the two 
unauthorised direct  debit  mandates being set up is purely coincidental.  
I can see that Santander cancelled the two mandates as soon as it was aware of the issue. 
The bank also returned the payments to Ms Ss account and waived  the £10 fee. I think this 
was fair and reasonable  and Ms S didnt suffer an actual  financial loss because of these 
payments. I understand that Santander  assisted Ms S in closing the current  account affected 
by the unauthorised direct debit payments and opening a new account for her. I also think  
this is fair and reasonable. 
I can fully understand  that Ms S would naturally have been  very concerned  by unauthorised 
direct debit payments  being set up on her account.  But as Im satisfied these werent caused 
by the actions of Santander, it follows that I dont  think the bank is responsible for the 
distress Ms S has been caused  by these unauthorised payments. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Im not asking 
Santander UK Plc to do anything else or pay more than the £25 its already offered. I leave it 
for Ms S to decide is she now wants to accept the £25 offer if Santander hasnt  already paid 
it to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7834315