K820x#14complaint
Miss K says the new car she acquired  under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In September  2017 Miss K acquired  a new car via a four year hire purchase  agreement with 
VWFS. Unfortunately in January 2018  the car was involved in a road traffic accident  and 
required repairs to its bodywork. 
Miss K took the car to an approved body shop for the necessary repairs. The garage 
informed Miss K that the car appeared to have been given a new bonnet and its paintwork 
looked different  from the rest of the car. It also said the paint depth readings  were different. It 
provided a number of photographs to Miss K of the readings. 
Miss K contacted the salesman to complain. She was concerned that the car had sustained  
damage before she received it and this had been  covered  up. 
The salesman said he didnt have any knowledge that the car had had a new bonnet. Miss K 
complained to VWFS who investigated. It didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. VWFS said it had 
checked with the manufacturer who had confirmed the car had not been the subject of any 
damage or repairs while at the factory or on transit to dealership.  It also checked if there was 
any record of repairs at any dealerships and again  could find no trace. VWFS said it couldnt  
agree that the car had any faults at the point of sale. 
Miss K complained to this service. She said she wanted to reject the car, have her deposit  
returned and be compensated  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ks complaint.  He said he wasnt able to agree that the 
car had a fault. He agreed that the photos  taken at the body shop showed  that the paint was 
of different  thicknesses  on various parts of the car but this wasnt  evidence  that the car had 
been the subject of any repairs.  
He said Miss K hadnt been aware that there was an issue with the paint until the body shop 
had raised it. And that no paint mismatch had been obvious from the photos provided. 
VWFS had investigated and contacted both the manufacturer and the dealership  and there 
were no records of any damage or repairs being  carried out on the car before Miss K had 
acquired it. 
Miss K disagreed with our investigators  view. She provided a copy of the Repairable  
Report completed by the approved body shop  which stated that the vehicle had a previous 
bonnet paint. She said this was evidence  the car had a fault.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies  of the photos taken at the approved body shop together with its report.  Ive 
also seen a copy of the vehicle history  document that lists any work  carried on the vehicle.
Ref: DRN71483492Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car must  be of satisfactory condition, fit for 
purpose and as described. If a car is faulty then the consumer may have a right to reject it. 
And when  a car is supplied via a credit  agreement then its the credit company, in this case  
VWFS, who is responsible if there  are problems with the car.
Miss K says the car was clearly faulty  as it had been  given a new bonnet. She says its likely 
the car had been damaged and then repaired with a new bonnet  to cover that up. Originally  
Miss K had said wanted to be able to reject  the car and receive her deposit back. She also 
felt that compensation was fair due to the distress and inconvenience this had caused  her.
I understand that since complaining to this service Miss K no longer has the car as she had 
lost faith in it. She says that having  her deposit reimbursed and an amount of compensation 
would be a fair and reasonable settlement to her complaint.
Looking at the photos Im not able to see any paint mismatches between the bonnet and the 
rest of the car so I cant say there  was an obvious  fault with the cars  paintwork. Ive also 
seen that Miss K wasnt  aware of any issues until after the accident in January 2018. By that 
time shed  had the car for around  four months.  I accept that the photos show  a number of 
different readings  for the paint depth  across  a range of different  parts  of the car. However 
due to the variety  of readings across  the car I cant reasonably say that this leads me to 
conclude that the cars  paintwork on the bonnet was faulty or that the bonnet  has been 
subjected to repairs.
I accept that the engineer at the approved body shop is independent. They have stated  that 
in their opinion  the car has had a previous  bonnet  paint. But they havent  said that the 
bonnets paintwork is defective and thats  important because for me to be satisfied that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality I would need evidence that the paintwork on the car was 
faulty.
VWFS checked with both the manufacturer and the dealership about whether the car had 
sustained any damage and there isnt any record of any. I cant  reasonably  say the car has 
been given a new bonnet  following  damage from an accident.
As the car has now been sold Miss K cant arrange  for it to be independently  inspected  so 
there isnt any more evidence that can be provided.  Looking at the evidence I have I havent 
enough to reasonably say the car was faulty at the point of sale and Im not upholding     
Miss Ks complaint. So Im not asking VWFS to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN71483493Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7148349