K821x#15complaint
Ms V complains  that MYJAR Limited  lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Ms V was given nine loans by MYJAR  between October 2016 and November 2017. The first 
eight loans were  successfully repaid by Ms V but a balance remains  outstanding on Loan 9. 
Eight of the loans  were repayable in monthly  instalments as shown in the table below: 
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Loan Term  
(months)
1. 28/10/16 31/10/16 £100 1
2. 8/5/17 16/5/17 £925 12
3. 19/6/17 10/7/17 £250 3
4. 10/7/17 30/8/17 £500 6
5. 2/10/17 6/10/17 £1,300 12
6. 8/10/17 15/10/17 £225 3
7. 15/10/17 20/10/17 £150 3
8. 20/10/17 13/11/17 £750 6
9. 13/11/17 Unpaid £1,300 12
Ms Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think MYJAR 
had been wrong  to give the first seven  loans to Ms V. But she didnt think Loans 8 and 9 
should have been agreed as the overall  pattern of borrowing suggested that Ms V had 
become persistently reliant on short term loans. 
MYJAR disagreed and responded  to say that the adjudicators  view lacked an explanation of 
how she had reached her conclusions or that she had reviewed its business file. MYJAR 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision which referred to its checks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When MYJAR lent to Ms V the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms V 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN74886012the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms V could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Vs complaint.
MYJAR did a number of checks before it lent to Ms V. It asked her for details of her monthly  
income and expenditure. Ms Vs declared income  for Loans 1 to 4 ranged between  £1,200  
and £1,300 and for Loans 5 to 9 between £1,700 and £1,800. Ms Vs total declared 
expenditure ranged from £400 to £560. MYJAR  said that it made adjustments  to these 
figures using its own internal affordability  calculations. 
MYJAR also checked Ms Vs credit file before agreeing to the loans. It has provided us with 
a summary of the results of its credit  checks.  It said that its checks  showed no short  term 
loans being taken out in the 24 hours prior to an application with it, and there were no 
overdue short term loans.  Ive referred  below to some of the other information revealed  in 
MYJARs credit checks.
Weve not received a credit report from Ms V so Im not aware of anything  on that which 
might have caused MYJAR  additional  concerns. 
Loan 1 was for £100 repayable three  days later. Before lending Loan 1 MYJAR checked 
Ms Vs credit  file. Ive seen a summary  of the credit check results  and overall  they dont 
appear to contain  anything  that I think should have  caused additional concerns to the lender 
about Ms Vs financial situation. MYJAR  also asked  Ms V for information  about her income 
and her expenditure. Shed declared  a monthly  income of £1,300  and regular expenditure of 
£400. These figures were adjusted using MYJARs  own internal calculations.  But even taking 
these into account,  I dont think the repayment amount was so large that its obvious  it 
wouldve caused Ms V financial  difficulty. 
Ref: DRN74886013Given Ms Vs repayment amount, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the time, 
and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
MYJAR to ask her for the amount  of information that would  be needed to show  Loan 1 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Ms V provided before Loan 1 or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 1 to Ms V. 
There was a gap of around  six months  between when Ms V repaid Loan 1 and when she 
took out Loan 2. I think this was significant  enough  a gap at this stage of Ms Vs borrowing 
history with MYJAR to constitute a break in the chain  of lending. 
Loan 2 was for £925 to be repaid over twelve  months with a highest monthly repayment of 
around £137. The amounts that Ms V needed  to repay each month  were  smaller than if 
shed taken a normal payday loan. But of course  she was committing  to making those 
repayments over a far longer  period.  MYJARs  credit checks  showed  that the balances on 
five of Ms Vs credit accounts  had increased  in the previous three  months and that shed 
taken out four credit accounts in the previous three months. Overall  I dont think the results 
of MYJARs  credit  checks appear  to contain anything  that I think  should have caused 
additional concerns to the lender about  Ms Vs financial situation.  And I dont think  the 
repayment amounts  were  so large that its obvious they wouldve  caused Ms V financial 
difficulty. 
So given Ms Vs repayment  amounts,  what was apparent about  her circumstances at the 
time, and her history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for MYJAR 
to ask her for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable. And there wasnt anything in the information Ms V provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what she was saying.
Loan 2 was repaid just eight days after it was taken  out. Loan  3 was taken out around a 
month later. Loan 3 was for £250  and repayable by three monthly instalments. The highest 
monthly loan repayment amount was around  £136. Loan 4 was taken out on the day Loan 3 
was repaid. Loan 3 was again  repaid  early  around  three weeks  after being taken out. The 
loan amount had doubled  on Loan  4 but the loan was repayable  over six months with a 
highest monthly repayment of around £146. I note the repayments for Loans 3 and 4 were 
still relatively modest compared  to Ms Vs disposable income (as adjusted by MYJAR). And 
whilst I think MYJAR  might have been  concerned that Ms V was borrowing Loan 4 on the 
same day that Loan 3 was repaid, I also note that the highest monthly  repayment  on Loan  4 
was just less than £10 higher than the highest monthly repayment on Loan  3. I can also see 
from MYJARs credit checks before Loan  3 that Ms V had taken out three accounts in the 
previous three months but her estimated unsecured debt had decreased by around £357.
Given Ms Vs repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the time, 
and her history with the lender,  I still dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for MYJAR to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that would be needed to show Loans 3 and 4 were 
unsustainable. So I dont  think MYJAR   was wrong  to give Loans  3 and 4 to Ms V. And I 
dont think there was anything in the information  Ms V provided or the information  MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying.
Ref: DRN74886014Loan 4 was again repaid early and Loan 5 was taken out about a month later.  The loan 
amount of £1,300 was Ms Vs highest  yet. But the loan was to be repaid  by 12 monthly 
repayments. The highest repayment  amount was almost £196. Ms Vs declared  income  had 
increased to £1,700, although her declared  expenditure  had also increased to £560. 
MYJARs credit checks showed  that Ms V had taken out five new accounts  in the previous 
three months. In view of Ms Vs regular and increasing borrowing I think that by the time of 
Loan 5, MYJAR  should have been concerned  that Ms V might have been reliant on its loans 
and checked whether  Ms V had other  short term debts that might impact  on her ability to 
repay these.  So I think  it would have been  proportionate for MYJAR to have  supplemented  
the information it held by asking Ms V some more detailed questions, such as whether she 
was borrowing from other short term lenders  at the same time. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely  have shown.  Unfortunately  Ive not seen Ms Vs bank statements for the month 
before Loan 5. I note that the adjudicator had asked Ms V for her bank statements in 
July 2018 and again in February and March  2019  so she has had ample  time to provide 
these. So I cant say that if MYJAR had completed  sufficient checks, it would have found that 
Ms V couldnt afford to repay Loan  5 sustainably. So I cant  say that MYJAR was wrong  to 
give Loan 5 to Ms V.
Loan 5 was repaid just four days after being  taken  out. And two days later Ms V took out 
Loan 6. The loan was for the smaller amount of £225 and was to be repaid by three monthly  
repayments with a highest monthly repayment of £108.88. Loan  6 was repaid after a week 
and on the date of repayment  Ms V took out Loan  7. This was for £150  to be repaid by three 
monthly repayments with a highest monthly  repayment of £79.36. Ive not seen the results of 
MYJARs credit checks before Loans  6 and 7. And Ms Vs declared disposable income  
doesnt seem to have  changed. But as Loans 6 and 7 were  borrowed with no or very little 
break after Ms Vs previous loans  and they were  her fifth and sixth loans within around five 
months, I think  this should have  raised  concerns with MYJAR that Ms V was struggling to 
manage her finances and that she had become reliant on short term loans.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for MYJAR  to base its assessment before Loans 6 and 7 
on the information provided by Ms V without taking steps to independently check  what shed 
declared. I think it might have been proportionate  at this time for MYJAR  to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Ms Vs finances. This was to make sure Ms V was 
in a position to make the repayments  sustainably. As far as I can see MYJAR didnt do this. 
So I need to think  about what MYJAR  wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate 
checks. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely  have shown.  Unfortunately  Ive not seen Ms Vs bank statements for the month 
before Loans  6 and 7 to see what proportionate  checks would have shown. So I cant  say 
that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks,  it would  have  found  that Ms V couldnt  afford  
to repay  Loans  6 and 7 sustainably. So I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to give Loans 6 
and 7 to Ms V.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending with Ms V to see if there  was a point at 
which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  Given  the particular  circumstances  of Ms Vs case, I think  that this point was 
reached by Loan  8. I say this because:
Ref: DRN74886015By Loan  8, Ms V had been borrowing from MYJAR for more  than five months since 
Loan 2. And Loan  8 was her seventh loan in just over five months.
This was the third occasion that Ms V had applied for a loan either very soon after or 
on the same day that shed repaid  a previous  loan to MYJAR. So I think MYJAR 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not that Ms V was having to borrow 
another loan to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances.
Ms V wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts she owed MYJAR and her 
highest monthly repayment amount  on Loan 8 was the highest shed agreed to pay 
MYJAR during her borrowing history with it.
I can see that as MYJAR didnt stop lending at this point, Ms V went  on to take out another  
loan for a further twelve month period on the day she repaid Loan 8. By approving  this loan, 
MYJAR was extending Ms Vs indebtedness  by a further year. I think  that Ms V lost out 
because MYJAR continued  to provide  borrowing from Loan 8 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Vs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Vs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
I note that MYJAR  said that the adjudicators view lacked explanation  of how shed reached  
her conclusions and that it failed to mention that shed reviewed its business file. It also 
asked that an ombudsman refer to its checks. Ive taken MYJARs response  to the 
adjudicators view into account in reaching my decision. Id like to reassure MYJAR that Ive 
reviewed its business  file and Ive provided detailed reasoning in this decision. But I havent 
recreated affordability assessments of the loans in dispute. This is because  I think  the 
number of loans  and the pattern of lending here are of concern. 
I also think that when  a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans  arent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As MYJAR will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and MYJAR should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Ms V paid on Loan 8 and pay interest  of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
Refund all the interest  and charges  that Ms V has paid on Loan  9, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 9;
Ref: DRN74886016Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  9 and 
pay any balance to Ms V;
Remove all entries about Loan 8 from Ms Vs credit file. MYJAR should  remove  all 
entries about Loan 9 from Ms Vs credit file once  it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
If there remains  a balance outstanding on Loan 9 after the above steps have  been  taken, I 
note that MYJAR  has said that its happy to set up a repayment plan. I would  remind  MYJAR 
of its responsibility to treat Ms V in a positive and sympathetic manner about the amounts 
she should repay. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to take the following  steps. If MYJAR has sold the 
outstanding debt, it should  buy this back. If it is not able or unwilling to do so, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below. 
1.Refund all interest  and charges Ms V paid on Loan 8 and pay interest  of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Ms V has paid on Loan  9 and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 9;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  9 
and pay any balance  to Ms V; and
5.Remove all entries about Loan 8 from Ms Vs credit file. MYJAR should  remove  
all entries about  Loan  9 from Ms Vs credit file once  it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask MYJAR Limited to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
Ref: DRN74886017Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7488601