K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont honour a promise  
under his home emergency insurance  policy, which was underwritten  by RSA, to replace his 
central heating boiler if it couldnt be repaired.
background
For a number of years,  Mr C has had a home  emergency policy  underwritten by RSA for his 
central heating boiler and system. In April 2018,  Mr Cs boiler stopped working  and he called 
on RSA under his policy. Its engineer said there was evidence of rust and scale in the 
system, and he would have to get someone  else to powerflush the system before the 
engineer could work on it.
Mr C arranged for a plumber to do this, but while it was in progress, a leak in the heat 
exchanger arose. So he halted the powerflush.  Mr C called on RSA to investigate  the leak. 
Its engineer said a new heat exchanger was needed, and that that this damage  too was 
caused by the build-up of sludge. So under the policy terms it wasnt  responsible  for 
repairing this.
Mr C disputed the engineers diagnosis. RSA said if he got a report  from an independent 
engineer it would consider this.
As he had now been without  heating and hot water, Mr C arranged  with another  supplier to 
install a new boiler  at a cost of £2,200. He complained that RSA wouldnt honour  its promise 
to pay for a replacement boiler contained  in a promotional  leaflet  which first induced him to 
take out emergency cover. RSA said under  the terms and conditions of the policy problems 
relating to sludge, scale and other  debris  were excluded from cover.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  
from the engineers  reports that there  was sludge or other debris in Mr Cs central  heating  
system which caused the initial  problems. This had also caused problems with the heat 
exchanger so that it needed to be replaced.  
RSA had supplied  the investigator  with a copy of the policy Terms  Conditions  which  it said 
were supplied to Mr C when he took out the policy. Condition 3.1 said that in respect  of the 
central heating system  the following were excluded from cover:
Problems relating to sludge, scale  and other  debris in the central heating system and 
related pipework.
The investigator said this meant any repairs required  to the boiler,  or the replacement  of the 
boiler, wouldnt be covered by the policy.
In the light of the reports from its engineers  and the policy terms and conditions, the 
investigator thought  RSA had acted reasonably in refusing to provide  any further assistance 
under the policy.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He said the reason for the initial 
breakdown was that the timer control unit failed. He didnt think  it was reasonable for RSA to 
refuse assistance because a powerflush was needed.
Ref: DRN76385372The investigator said that irrespective of the timer control unit, the evidence  of the engineers  
was that the sludge present in the boiler and system meant the boiler  wouldnt have worked.
Mr C said he had asked the manufacturer of the boiler to come and inspect it and issue a 
report on its condition. He still thought it could have  been repaired  and that RSA should 
reimburse the cost of the new boiler.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2012, after receiving a promotional  leaflet,  Mr C entered into a home  care 
maintenance plan for his central heating boiler  and system. The leaflet said that if within the 
first 12 years  of its life the boiler couldnt be repaired, it would be replaced  free of charge  
under the plan.
Such plans  arent insurance policies, and so arent  within the jurisdiction of this service.  
When we started investigating  this complaint  it wasnt  clear  the initial arrangement wasnt  an 
insurance policy, and it has taken some time to establish exactly  what  happened. As its not 
within our jurisdiction, I wont say any more about  the original arrangement that Mr C had.
It appears that in 2014 the arrangement was changed to a home emergency  insurance 
policy for Mr Cs central heating boiler and system, which was underwritten  by RSA. This is 
within our jurisdiction. It appears from RSAs records that at the time RSA wrote  to Mr C 
explaining the change and sent him a copy of the terms and conditions of the insurance 
policy.
The policy included a similar boiler  replacement provision if RSAs engineers couldnt repair  
the boiler. Included  in the section dealing with his central heating boiler, under the heading  
What we do not cover  was the following:
We will not pay for damage
2.5.6   caused  by or arising from sludge,  scale and other debris  in the central  heating  boiler      
and related pipework.
The policy ran for 12 months. Each year, when his policy ran out, Mr C renewed it for 
another 12 months. The terms and conditions each year contained the same  restriction  on 
cover.
When Mr Cs boiler  broke down, RSAs engineers said they wouldnt deal with the repairs 
needed because  the damage arose  from a build-up  of sludge. So Mr C would have to 
arrange his own engineers to repair the boiler. 
I conclude that the boiler replacement provision didnt apply when Mr Cs boiler broke down. 
It only came  into effect if the boiler  was irreparable. This doesnt  seem to have been the 
case here; it was just that RSAs engineers wouldnt repair it under the policy for the reasons  
Ive described above.
Mr C says the boiler stopped working because  of a failed timer unit. But the evidence of 
RSAs engineers is that the build-up  of scale caused other problems  apart from the failed 
Ref: DRN76385373timer control unit. If Mr C obtains  expert evidence which contradicts this, RSA has said it will 
consider this.
In the absence of any such evidence, and in view of the wording of the policy  terms and 
conditions Ive quoted above,  I dont think RSA acted unreasonably in refusing either to 
repair the damage to the boiler  or to contribute to the cost of its replacement.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7638537