K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about advice she received from New Leaf Distribution  Limited when it 
recommended that she set up a self-investment  personal pension (SIPP) to receive  pension  
funds she was entitled to.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint and 
explained why.
New Leaf didnt agree. It said, in summary:
The discounted rates  were  provided  by the platform and not the SIPP provider. The 
platform is well known and reputable.
The cost of the platform and the investment manager was less than a stakeholder 
pension.
The adviser agreed to remove fees and remain as the adviser.  The adviser did zero 
the fees.
Mrs C removed the funds from the platform in March 2019. This could  only have 
happened if she had appointed another adviser. She was not trapped on the 
platform.
I asked New Leaf to provide evidence in relation to the latter two points.
New Leaf responded with evidence that the adviser did offer to reduce fees and that they 
were removed. It didnt evidence that Mrs C had moved  the funds, but in fact provided 
evidence that she had not, as Mrs C had said.
New Leaf invited this service to kick this complaint into the long grass.
Mrs C accepted my provisional  conclusions.  She asked for a breakdown  of the calculation, a 
time limit and for confirmation  that any exit fees will be taken into account.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all that has been said in 
response to the provisional decision, but Ive not changed my conclusions.  I uphold this 
complaint and confirm  my provisional  conclusions.
Im grateful  to New Leaf for clarifying the situation regarding  the discount.  But this doesnt  
impact on my findings.
New Leaf says that the costs of the investment manager and the platform were less than a 
stakeholder pension. That contradicts what it told Mrs C at the time of the advice. It said then 
that a stakeholder option was less expensive in comparison  by 0.6 per cent per year, even  
with the stakeholder charge at 1.5 per cent. And 1.5 per cent is the maximum stakeholder 
annual charge, and so not necessarily indicative of the commercial  rates  available.
Ref: DRN71772162I can see that the adviser did offer to remove the fees. But as Ive said,  I dont think this was 
really a long-term solution.  I accept what Mrs C said in her message to New Leaf that she 
was always likely to be a low risk investor. So, its not clear  to me when the time may have 
come when she would decide to take more risks so that it could reinstate its charges even if 
she had accepted its offer.
Both New Leaf and Mrs C have now evidenced  that the funds have not been  moved.  New 
Leaf has made the assertion on more than one occasion that the funds had been moved, but 
when asked to provide  evidence to back this up, it couldnt. In fact, the evidence  it did 
produce confirmed  what  Mrs C had said all along. I note, purely as an observation,  that 
when New Leaf provided this evidence which contradicted its earlier statements, there  was 
no suggestion of any contrition on its part for the baseless assertions  it had made. I also 
note the invitation to kick this complaint into the long grass but I dont intend to do that.   
Im satisfied that a pension transfer was necessary to create  a suitable vehicle to receive the 
funds from the Pension Sharing Order. However, Im not satisfied that this SIPP  
arrangement was suitable for Mrs C. Im not satisfied that all the potential  charges  were 
explained to her, or that she fully understood that an adviser  had to be appointed to the 
SIPP for it to have full functionality. Also, I agree with the investigator that the SIPP 
arrangement was more  complex, with the involvement of a DFM, and more expensive than it 
needed to have been, particularly given Mrs Cs attitude to risk.   
I remain of the view that Mrs Cs needs  and objectives could  probably  have been met with a 
more simple and less expensive option  such as a low-cost SIPP with a main stream 
provider. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about New Leaf Distribution Limited.
It must calculate and pay redress  as set out in the provisional decision which is attached  
below. It should  provide  Mrs C with a clear breakdown of its calculation. For the avoidance of 
doubt, the actual value  should take into account  any exit fees payable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71772163Extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs C has complained about  advice she received from New Leaf Distribution  Limited when it 
recommended that she set up a self investment  personal  pension (SIPP) to received pension  funds 
she was entitled to.
background
Mrs C took advice in 2017. Following her divorce she had been awarded  a pension sharing order 
worth just over £149,000 which related to two separate  pensions.  She needed  to transfer these to her 
own pension arrangement.
New Leaf recommended that she set up a SIPP  with a provider with whom it had discounted rates. 
The SIPP required an associated adviser  to be appointed and this was New Leaf.
Later, after Mrs C terminated her agreement with New Leaf it became  apparent to her that she could 
not make her own transactions without  an adviser, and the SIPP  provider also increased its platform 
costs when  no adviser was appointed.
Mrs C complained to New Leaf but it didnt uphold  the complaint and it was referred to this service. An 
investigator considered  the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld.
The investigator noted  that the objective of the meeting with New Leaf was to arrange  for a suitable  
pension vehicle to receive the pension  credits due from the Pension Sharing Order  and to consolidate 
two other personal  pensions  Mrs C held at a later stage.
The fact-find documented that Mrs C was employed with an annual  income of £6,000 per annum.  Her 
main residence was valued at £165,000 and she had personal savings of £65,000. There  was a note 
that said client is nervous about the pension, in the past has not had it explain to her what  she is 
investing in. The client is very wary of pensions at present,  but she has stated that this is probably 
due to her not understanding what she has in place. She is very cautious regarding any risks but feels 
if she had a clear plan and objectives she would  be more relaxed with separating some of her funds 
into a very cautious rather than defensive investments .
A risk questionnaire was completed  which  said that Mrs C was a cautious investor.
There was a second meeting in July 2017, and a fee agreement  was signed by Mrs C in August 2017. 
On the fee agreement, Mrs C annotated 30 days written notice to cancel
ongoing service review.
A suitability  letter was prepared dated 11 October 2017. The adviser recommended Mrs C set up a 
SIPP to hold the funds  received from the Pension Sharing Order. The funds were to be invested with 
a discretionary fund manager  (DFM). 
One of the reasons this SIPP provider  was recommended  was that New Leaf had negotiated a 
discounted rate to use this platform and so Mrs C would apparently benefit from a lower cost structure 
than was otherwise available.
The suitability report detailed the charges as 2 per cent initial adviser fees and 1 per cent ongoing 
adviser fees. The solution  (SIPP) charge was detailed as 1.06% per annum. This was split as 0.45% 
as Ongoing Fund  charges, 0.25% Custody Charges and 0.36% DFM charges.
Ref: DRN71772164Mrs C signed the application to proceed with the recommendations in October  2017 and funds  were 
transferred into the SIPP.
 
In November 2017, Mrs C enquired with the adviser about the charges applicable to the SIPP and its 
impact on the performance.  She expressed concern  about the level of total charges  and the impact 
this would  have on investment returns.
The adviser  responded and confirmed that there were  costs of 1.07 per cent and 1 per cent so 2.07 
per cent in total. This was said to be normal for the industry and compared  with 1.5 per cent in a 
typical stakeholder scheme. The additional  0.6 per cent provided massive value  including the 
expertise of a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
Mrs C responded  asking  directly if, with charges of 2.07 per cent,  the fund was likely to grow in the 
long term.  She also said that I will always  want a mainly low-risk pension  fund so this kind of fund 
would need to make  more than 2.07%.
The advisor  responded and said that with a cautious attitude to risk it was difficult  to de confident of 
growth with this type of portfolio and the intention was to review her attitude  to risk over time to 
increase likely returns.
The adviser  also said,  One last thing, there is also no problem with cancelling the ongoing advisor  
fee, which  will save  you 1%, I can do this with no notice any time during this year.
In December 2018 following a further meeting, a further plan was set up to hold the transferred funds 
received from Mrs Cs personal  pension  plans.
In January 2019, Mrs C wrote to the adviser  referring  to a recent meeting about some funds being  
transferred to a riskier area. She asked to receive the written advice. There was no response and 
soon after Mrs C terminated the agreement with New Leaf.
The SIPP provider then wrote to Mrs C to inform her that it was increasing its custody charges  by 0.25 
per cent as there was no longer an appointed adviser. At that point Mrs C complained.
The investigator decided that the complaint should  be upheld. In summary she said:
Mrs C was a novice  investor with no experience of pension investments
Mrs C was concerned about charges and how these may eat into investment  returns. This 
was evidenced by her emails to New Leaf.
The SIPP  provider confirmed that an advisor  had to be allocated  to the plan and if not, it could 
not conduct business  in it. Its custody charge also increased to 0.5 per cent.
There were  potential  rebalancing charges of 0.9 per cent and trading cost of 0.19 per cent. 
These could  take total charges to over 3 per cent.
The investigator wasnt  satisfied that the additional  charges had been clearly explained and 
thought that having a DFM  linked to the SIPP  was an unnecessary complication for Mrs C. 
This also led to additional  charges.
New Leaf did offer to cancel its 1 per cent charge but this led Mrs C to understand she could 
cancel with no implications.
The investigator set out how redress should be calculated. She was satisfied that the transfer was 
necessary but felt that Mrs Cs needs could  have been met by a low cost SIPP with a main stream 
provider.
The investigator said that New Leaf should compare the actual value of the funds  with the fair value 
assessed by reference to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return  Index for half the fund 
and for the other  half, average rate from fixed rate bonds. It should  pay the difference. It should  also 
pay £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused,  and that New Leaf should arrange a new SIPP  
or pay up to £1,000 towards the cost of Mrs C doing  so.
Ref: DRN71772165Mrs C didnt agree. She said that New Leaf should cover the cost of her having its recommendation of 
a new SIPP checked  or meet the whole of the cost of a new SIPP. She also said that New Leaf 
should pay for any exit fees and any start up charges for the new fund.  
New Leaf didnt agree. It said that it had done all that could reasonably be expected.  It had offered to 
waive its fees so that Mrs C could  remain  on the platform and benefit from the discount rate. She had 
now instructed another adviser and moved the funds.
Mrs C denied that the she had instructed another adviser  and moved  the funds. She said she was 
trapped on this platform.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree broadly with the investigator and Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. But Ive 
reached some different conclusions, particularly on redress, and so Ive made this provisional  
decision.
Mrs C was assessed  by New Leaf as being a cautious investor. She had little by way of investment 
experience and was a novice.
Mrs C also set out in her email correspondence with New Leaf that she felt she was always likely  to 
be a low risk investor.
Having considered  the evidence, Im satisfied that a pension transfer was necessary to create a 
suitable vehicle to receive the funds from the Pension Sharing  Order. I dont think  the personal  
pensions Mrs C already held were  suitable for this. I also think a SIPP was a suitable 
recommendation. However, Im not satisfied that this SIPP arrangement was suitable  for Mrs C. Im 
not satisfied  that all of the potential charges  were explained to her, or that she fully understood that an 
adviser had to be appointed to the SIPP for it to have full functionality. Also,  I agree  with the 
investigator that the SIPP arrangement  was more complex, with the involvement  of a DFM, and more  
expensive than it needed  to have been, particularly given Mrs Cs attitude to risk.   
I agree with the investigator that Mrs Cs needs and objectives could probably have been met with 
more simple and less expensive option such as a low-cost SIPP with a main stream  provider. That 
would also have addressed  her clearly voiced concerns about the impact of charges on investment 
growth, whilst  at the same  time providing a suitable  range of investment options.
New Leaf says that it acted  reasonably  and offered to waive its fees for a period. The adviser has 
said, in effect, that the fees could have been waived until a time came  when Mrs C was prepared  to 
take greater risks and seek better returns. This offer would have reduced the costs to Mrs C and so 
partially addressed her concerns, but I dont think it was really a long term solution. I accept  what Mrs 
C says when  said in her message to New Leaf that she was always  likely to be a low risk investor. So 
its not clear to me when the time may have come when she would decide to take more risks so that it 
could reinstate its charges if she had accepted its offer.  Mrs C is also in her early fifties and so not at 
a point when she is likely to start to take significantly  higher risks with her pension.
So I think this complaint  should be upheld.
Fair compensation
Ref: DRN71772166I have some views that are different to those of the investigator.  I dont think Mrs C should have to rely 
on further advice from New Leaf. She lost confidence  in them and terminated her agreement with 
them so I dont think its fair to direct  that it select a new SIPP for her or that Mrs C should have to rely 
on that advice.
I think  New Leaf should  calculate  redress  by calculating  the fair value with the starting point being the 
full transfer value of the money received  under the Pension Sharing Order, without deduction of its 
charges. This will effectively  mean  that if she has suffered a loss, these  charges will have been 
refunded to Mrs C. It will then be fair if she arranges for fresh  advice at her own cost with an adviser  
of her choice. And it will also mean that New Leaf need not arrange the new SIPP or meet the cost of 
doing so.
New Leaf says that the funds have been moved. Mrs C disputes that. This redress assumes  the funds 
are still intact  on the SIPP platform and so it would  be helpful if Mrs C could  provide her latest 
statement which confirms  that.
 
My aim is that Mrs C should be put as closely as possible  into the position  she would probably now be 
in if she had been given  suitable advice. 
I think  Mrs C would have invested differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely  what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs C's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested.
What should New Leaf do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, New Leaf must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
New Leaf should  add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, New Leaf should pay into Mrs C's pension plan to increase  its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If New Leaf is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs C's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs C would  have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75 per cent of the 
compensation.
Pay Mrs C £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused  and the impact on her pension 
planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If New Leaf deducts  income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. New Leaf should give Mrs C a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN71772167investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, New Leaf should  use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate 
for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those rates should be applied to 
the investment  on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum that Mrs C paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. This should include  the transfer in from her personal pensions. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there are a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if New Leaf totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting  
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
Ref: DRN71772168who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mrs C's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mrs C into that position. It does not mean that Mrs C would  have invested 50% 
of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mrs C could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that New Leaf Distribution Limited should pay the 
amount calculated  as set out above. 
Ref: DRN7177216