K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
her central heating insurance  policy. 
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from British  Gas Services Limited
to British Gas Insurance Limited.  This is because we have no jurisdiction  over British
Gas Services Limited  for a complaint about  the handling of the insurance policy; its only
an insurance intermediary, not an insurer.
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and
as British Gas Services  Limited  responded to the complaint on behalf of British Gas
Insurance Limited, theres  no need  for it to review the matter  again or issue a further final
response.
background
Miss Cs policy  with British Gas includes an annual service of her boiler. Miss C had made 
an appointment for the service  to be done in October 2018, however British  Gas cancelled 
the appointment. Miss C was very unhappy it had done this, as she had booked  the 
appointment in advance  and then had trouble booking an alternative  weekend date. 
British Gas says it tried to call Miss C several  times a few days ahead of the appointment to 
tell her it was going to have to cancel it because of high demand for breakdown calls. It also 
said that weekend  appointments  are not often possible  at that time of year, as it has to 
prioritise breakdowns,  rather  than routine services. British Gas accepted  that rearranging the 
appointment had caused  Miss C some inconvenience and so offered her £40 compensation, 
which it said would be sent by cheque. 
Miss C says the cheque  didnt arrive  so she contacted British Gas on 14 January 2019. 
British Gas responded two days later and said the cheque had been  processed on 
8 December 2018 and sent out. It later said this had been a typographical error and the 
cheque had been processed on 18 December  2018 (just after the date of its final response 
letter and offer of £40 compensation had been  sent to Miss C). 
Miss C still had not received the cheque, so she sent two more emails  to British Gas on 
17 and 23 January 2019, which she says British Gas ignored.  It finally  responded to her third 
email of 4 February  2019.  
British Gas says it reissued the cheque on 24 January  2019.  Miss C then asked that it 
transfer the money directly into her account  instead, so on 8 February 2019, British Gas 
confirmed it would do so and asked Miss C to destroy the cheque when it was received.
Miss C says she did not receive  either  cheque and doesnt think they were  ever actually sent 
to her and is also unhappy that British Gas ignored  her two emails  of January 2019 and 
wants to know why. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He did not think  it should be upheld, as he 
was satisfied that British Gas had sent the cheques and it had addressed Miss Cs concerns, 
albeit with a slight  delay. 
Ref: DRN70854022Miss C does not accept  the adjudicators assessment, so the matter has been referred to 
me. Miss C says British  Gas did not respond  to her emails and she does not believe that two 
cheques were lost in the post.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has explained that it no longer had any engineers  available  on the day Miss C 
had booked her annual service to be carried  out. It is annoying to have an appointment 
cancelled but sometimes this is unavoidable. British  Gas offered £40 for the inconvenience 
caused by this and I think  this is reasonable.  
There was then a delay in receiving this but there is no reason for me to doubt  that the 
cheques were sent, as British Gas has claimed. Miss C didnt receive  either cheque and is 
convinced they were not sent but British Gas has produced evidence that they were  sent.  
There was a delay  in responding to Miss Cs emails in January  2019  but British  Gas did 
respond just over two weeks after her first email about this. Miss C wants to know  why there 
was a delay. However,  I dont consider  I need  to investigate exactly what went  wrong and 
why this email was apparently not responded to sooner, in order to fairly  determine the 
outcome to this complaint. I say this because I cannot punish  a business for any
failings or wrong  doing, I can only instead  award compensation commensurate with the
actual distress and inconvenience  suffered as a result  of any proven  failing  by a business. 
Sometimes administrative errors are made, or other  things go wrong in the course of life. 
That does not always mean that financial compensation is warranted. There was a slight  
delay in responding to Miss C but British Gas did respond and arranged payment by bank 
transfer as she requested.  Whilst this will have been  annoying,  I do not consider that any 
further compensation is warranted for this. 
I do not consider  that British Gas needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7085402