K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc has turned down a claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mr K used his Santander credit card to make  payments to an online trading platform 
company (the company). He says the company didnt provide the service he expected  and in 
particular that it misrepresented that it had authority to trade in the United Arab Emirates  
(UAE). 
Mr K made a claim to Santander under section 75. But it rejected his claim as the payments 
to the company were made through PayPal. It also said that Mr K was out of time to make a 
chargeback claim through the card scheme.
Our investigator found that the payments were made to PayPal,  not the company. So the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship wasnt  in place for section 75 to apply. He 
added that the card issuers rules wouldnt allow a chargeback  because  of the nature of the 
transactions.
Mr K didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
PayPal was merely acting as facilitator  for the transactions and payments were made 
directly to the company.
There was clear  evidence that the company had misrepresented  it was authorised in 
UAE .
He was aware that successful chargebacks had been made in these situations.
He believed Santander was jointly liable in these  circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes the provider of credit  (Santander  in this case) equally liable where there  is 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the supplier of goods or services financed  by the 
credit. But for section  75 to apply there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
between the borrower,  the credit card company  and the supplier.
The question here is what was being financed  by the credit  Santander  supplied  to Mr K. If 
hed made  the payment directly to the company using his card, it would be clear enough that 
the necessary  relationship was in place. But that isnt what happened  here.  Rather, Mr K 
made payment to the company using his PayPal account. The credit Santander provided 
was used to finance the payment to PayPal, rather than the company. Thats clear from the 
PayPal account  statements  Mr K has provided.
There are some circumstances where transactions  involving PayPal are covered  by section 
75. But these  are generally  where  PayPal has acted  as a provider of credit card processing  
Ref: DRN77271742services. In other words,  an arrangement  enabling  the merchant to take card payments 
directly. Such arrangements would mean that there was the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship in place.
But in this case PayPal  wasnt acting as merely a processor or merchant acquirer. Rather, it 
was acting as an e-money service. Mr K has provided statements from his PayPal account 
showing the payments  to the company. Im satisfied  that the payments from his credit card 
were made to PayPal  and not the company. Im afraid that is enough to break the debtor-
creditor-supplier chain.  
While I understand Mr Ks disappointment,  Im afraid  that section 75 doesnt apply to the 
transactions he made using his Santander  credit card to the company.  So I dont consider it 
acted unfairly when it rejected his claim. As section  75 didnt apply,  I dont need  to make a 
finding whether  there was misrepresentation or a breach of contract by the company. Thats 
not to say that Mr K doesnt  have  a claim against the company.  Its just that he will need to 
make it directly to the company and not Santander.
Santander can sometimes help customers recover money using a chargeback  through the 
card scheme. But the card scheme  sets its own rules,  and only provides for chargebacks in 
certain circumstances.  In this case MasterCard,  changed its rules  so that it would not allow 
chargebacks concerning  investments, foreign exchange and similar disputes. This would 
include the payments  that Mr K made to the company. So I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for Santander not to pursue a chargeback.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7727174