K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained that Sytner Group  Limited  mis-sold a guaranteed asset protection 
(GAP) policy to him.
background
Mr J acquired  a car on a 48 month personal  contract  purchase  (PCP) finance agreement 
from Sytner. He also bought  a GAP policy. Over three years  later his car was damaged in an 
accident and deemed a total loss. He realised at that point that the GAP policy,  which had a 
36 month term, had lapsed.  He complained  to Sytner that the policy  was mis-sold because it 
didn't cover the full term of his PCP agreement.  Sytner didn't think it had done  anything 
wrong.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2019. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.
I've seen that from the outset Mr J told Sytner  that he wanted a car on a PCP agreement in 
excess of three years  with GAP  insurance included. So in line with that request  Sytner  
recommended a GAP  policy to him. As it made  a recommendation that means it sold the 
policy on whats known as an advised sale basis. And when making an advised sale,  
whether by email,  over the phone or in person, Sytner is required to take reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of its advice. 
The policy Sytner  recommended  only provided cover  for 36 months. But Mr Js PCP 
agreement ran for 48 months. And the nature of that agreement meant that  potentially - he 
might have owed a considerable sum on it after the 36 month term of his GAP  cover had 
expired. So a policy that only covered part of that period wasn't  suitable  for his needs as it 
wouldn't cover any shortfall for the last year of Mr Js PCP agreement. So I don't think it was 
reasonable for Sytner to recommend it to Mr J, unless it had made it clear that the GAP 
policy wouldn't cover the full term of his finance  agreement during the sales process. And it 
didn't do that.
Sytners said that the sale of the GAP policy is separate from the sale of the car and the 
finance for that. I agree thats the case.  But for the reasons given above, its likely that those 
buying a car on finance will be concerned about a shortfall in the repayments of that finance  
in the event that their car is deemed  a total loss. So I think Sytner needed to make clear  to 
Mr J that the GAP policy didn't match the term of his finance agreement. Sytners said that 
the fact the policy  will pay off any outstanding finance is an additional benefit. But I think its 
clear from the policy's key facts that it either  pays the difference  between the motor insurers  
settlement and the invoice price or the outstanding balance of the finance agreement.  So I 
think this is a key attraction of the policy rather than an additional benefit.
Sytner pointed  out that the 36 month term of Mr Js policy was included  in the policys  key 
facts and demands and needs statement (the statement) which he signed. Mr J doesn't 
dispute that. But he takes issue  with the manner in which the statement was completed.  The 
statement is a list of questions that Sytner  was supposed to have put to Mr J and his 
answers to those in order to assess his needs.  Of particular relevance to this complaint is 
the question: which  product term is most suitable to which Sytner has recorded that Mr J 
Ref: DRN77283902answered 36 months. But Mr J says that Sytner  didn't  to put that question  to him, instead it 
filled in the statement itself and simply passed it to him.
Sytner accepts that it completed the statement itself.  But its said that it did so with the 
answers Mr Js provided. But I've seen no evidence beyond Sytners  comments thats 
accurate. Indeed it appears that Mr J had agreed  to buy the policy before Sytner  sent him 
the statement. And I haven't seen any convincing evidence that Sytner ran through  the 
questions on the statement  in order to assess Mr Js needs. 
At the time Sytner  didn't offer a GAP  policy with a longer term than 36 months. And that 
might explain  why it thought 36 months  might be Mr Js preferred term  as that would  have 
been the only policy it would have offered to him. But I think  it was mistaken in taking that 
approach without pointing out the discrepancy  between the duration terms of the GAP policy 
and the finance agreement to Mr J. And I think it should have been clear about the 
information it had included on the statement and why.
Sytners said it emailed the statement to Mr J before it handed it to him to sign.  In that email 
it invited Mr J to discuss  the policy with it before he bought it. And it said that he had ample  
time to read the statement together with the policys key facts  before he took delivery of the 
car. It sent that email on the afternoon  that Mr J went  to collect the car and its not clear 
whether Mr J had read it before he arrived at the showroom. But, in any event, theres  no 
evidence Sytner  pointed out the difference between the GAP policy duration and the PCP 
term before  Mr J bought  the policy. And, as I've said above, given that it was selling the 
policy on an advised basis I think it was necessary for it to make  the distinction clear before 
it sold the policy to Mr J. But it didn't do that. And I don't  think  the fact that Mr J had told 
Sytner he wanted a GAP  policy removed  that requirement.
Ill add that Mr J said Sytners  decision to complete  the statement  itself was a deliberate  
attempt to mislead him. I've said above  that I think  Sytner should  have been clear with Mr J 
about the information it had included on the statement and in particular the length of the 
policy term. But that doesn't mean  that it was deliberately trying to mislead him. From 
Sytners perspective it knew  Mr J wanted a GAP policy  when he bought  his car and the 
36 month policy was the only one it could have offered him. So it seems likely that - 
incorrectly in my view - Sytner arrived at the conclusion that the 36 month term was what 
Mr J would have wanted. And it seems  it's completed the statement on that basis  of how it 
thought Mr J would likely  answer the questions. While I don't think  that was appropriate I 
don't think  it amounts to a deliberate attempt to mislead. But it should have been clear about  
this both when  it provided the statement and when it responded to Mr Js complaint.
Mr J doesn't dispute  the fact that he signed the statement to say that the GAP policys  
benefits had been pointed  out to him. But I don't think the fact that Mr J signed a document 
necessarily meant hed understood all the implications of it. As Sytner  sold the policy  on an 
advised basis, in order to make sure its advice was suitable, it needed to point out to Mr J 
that the policy wouldnt cover the full term of his finance agreement. But I've seen no 
convincing evidence that it did so.
Sytners said that by the time 36 month  had passed  from the start of Mr Js PCP agreement 
its likely  that his motor  insurers payment for the market  value  of his car would be higher 
than the outstanding balance owing on the finance  agreement. So it doesn't think  offering a 
longer term policy  would have been  of benefit  to Mr J. And so such  a policy wouldn't  have 
been suitable for him. But Sytner couldn't have been sure at the time it sold Mr J the policy 
what the deprecation on Mr Js car would have been  or how much  the motor  insurer would 
Ref: DRN77283903settle the total loss claim for. So, it couldn't  possibly know whether or not there would still be 
finance owing on the car beyond the 36 month period. And in any event the policy Sytner 
sold doesn't simply cover the finance,  it also covers  the difference  between  the motor  
insurers settlement and the invoice provided  for the car. And that means it would  have still 
been suitable for Mr J regardless  of whether  or not there was finance outstanding if it hadn't  
already lapsed.  And as I've said above in order for Mr J to rely on Sytners advice, it needed 
to be clear with him that the term of his GAP policy wasn't equal to the term of his PCP 
agreement. But it didn't  do that.
Sytner added that Mr J could have cancelled  the policy within  its 30 day cancellation  period if 
he didn't think it was suitable. I agree  thats  the case. But I think Mr J believed hed bought a 
GAP policy  that matched  his PCP agreement term. And Sytner  should  have  provided  advice 
that Mr J could rely on. So I don't  think he would  have  realised  that there was any cause for 
him to cancel the policy. It follows that I think Sytner mis-sold the policy.
I've thought about whats likely to have happened  if Sytner had appropriately advised Mr J 
that the policy wouldn't cover the full term of his PCP. And I think if it had done so he would 
have bought a different policy that covered  the full term of his finance agreement  from 
another provider.  And that policy would  have paid the difference between  his motor insurers  
settlement and the invoice price of his car or the outstanding finance after it was declared a 
total loss. So, I think Mr Js lost out on receiving that settlement because of Sytners  
unsuitable advice.  
In order to put things  right I will require Sytner  to return  Mr J to the position that he would 
have been in had he bought a policy that did cover his for the full term. That means Sytner 
should step into the shoes  of Mr Js GAP insurer and pay Mr Js claim for the greater of the 
difference between  his motor insurers settlement and:
 the invoice  price of his car, or 
 the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mr Js finance  agreement.
The policy wouldn't cover  any non-manufacturer  fitted items such as the cost of the GAP or 
other policies sold with the car. So its reasonable for Sytner to deduct those sums  from the 
invoice price when  calculating the settlement.
It should also refund the excess Mr Js motor insurer charged - up to £500 - as per the terms 
of his policy. It should add simple  interest  to the above amounts at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date of Mr Js claim to the date it makes payment.
For completeness Mr J has said that Sytner  didn't  abide by rules  preventing  it from selling 
GAP policies on the same day that it sells cars.  But I understand those rules were only 
introduced about  six months after Mr J bought  his car. So those weren't effective at the time.
Also Sytners referred us to other ombudsmen decisions  where we haven't upheld 
complaints that it believes are similar to this one. But as it knows our decisions don't set 
precedent. And my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual  
circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, I think  that Sytner  mis-sold the GAP  
policy on this occasion. So the other decisions Sytners referred me to don't  alter that 
opinion.
developments 
Ref: DRN77283904Mr J accepted my provisional  decision but Sytner didn't. In short it said that I had assumed 
that all customers keep  their cars for the full term of their finance agreements. It said that I 
had also assumed that a conversation around  the duration of the GAP  policy  didn't take 
place. It repeated that GAP polices are of their greatest value  in the first three years 
following a car purchase and that after that the motor insurers settlement should  be enough 
to cover any outstanding  finance.
Sytner said that if it had to cover the return to invoice element of the policy that would be 
treating Mr J better than all other customers who paid for a three  year policy. It said that a 
fairer outcome would  be for it to cover  any outstanding finance  rather  than settle any claim 
on a return to invoice  basis.
Sytner added that while  it couldn't provide evidence it had a conversation  pointing  out the 
difference between  the GAP policy term and the PCP its probable that conversation  took 
place. So it thinks Mr J was fully aware of the policy term.  It said that was especially the case  
as Mr J had recently claimed  on another GAP  policy when he took the policy out with it. So it 
concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that as an informed person, the term of the policy  
would have been important to Mr J. 
Sytner also said that I had assumed that Mr J would  have  bought  a different policy  if it had 
pointed out the discrepancy in the term to him. It said there was no evidence of that and that 
the premium for such a policy  would have been  more expensive  than the policy he bought.
Sytner commented that if it was required to step into the shoes of the insurer then Mr J 
would be required to provide the necessary proof  that his car motor insurer deemed his car a 
total loss. That information would include the amounts of his motor  insurers  settlement and 
any outstanding  sums  on his finance agreement.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im going to uphold it.
Sytner said that I made an assumption  that all customers kept their cars for the full term of 
their finance  agreements. I can confirm that I made no such  assumption.  Im aware that 
some consumers will sell or replace their cars before their finance  agreement is due to 
expire. And clearly, there will also be customers who will keep their cars until the completion 
of their finance agreements. So I don't find the fact that some consumers will part with their 
cars before the termination  of their finance agreements  is a reason for Sytner not to provide 
suitable recommendations.  
Sytner also said I had assumed  that a conversation around the term of the GAP  policy  didn't 
take place. But that's  not accurate. Instead what I did was to look at all the available  
evidence, including  everything Sytner and Mr J told me and all the paperwork both sides  
provided. And, having considered all of that evidence, I formed  a conclusion,  based on what 
I thought was more  likely than not to have happened. 
In particular I noted that Sytner couldnt provide  copies of any phone  recordings or notes of a 
conversation in which it discussed the policy term with Mr J. In contrast Mr J had said from 
the outset of his complaint that Sytner hadn't made him aware of the difference  between the 
terms of his finance and his GAP  policy. He said it hadn't been  discussed with him. And 
having weighed  up all the evidence very carefully  I concluded, on balance, that Sytner hadn't 
Ref: DRN77283905discussed the policy term with him. And as such Sytner hadn't  provided adequate advice 
when it sold the GAP policy.
Sytner repeated  that, in its opinion, the policy was of the greatest value during its first three 
years. That may or may not be the case depending on the specifics  of the individuals 
finance agreement, the purchase price  and market value of their car at its date of loss. But 
that doesn't mean  that there  is no value  to a longer term policy,  or that any finance  will 
always be paid off by a motor insurer's settlement. Also a further benefit of a return to 
invoice policy is that it pays  the difference between the motor insurers settlement and the 
invoice price of the car. And I think that would be of value to many  consumers in the fourth  
year after theyve bought their car. So I think Sytner  needed to make the differences  clear  in 
order for Mr J to have been able to rely on its advice. I don't think  it did that.
Sytners added that theres no evidence that Mr J would  have  bought a different policy if 
Sytner had pointed the difference in terms to him. But the evidence  is in Mr Js complaint to 
Sytner. For example,  he commented at the outset of his horror when he realised the GAP  
term was different to his PCP. And he said that he was furious  and devastated. Similarly, 
as Sytners said itself,  as Mr J had experience of a successful claim on a GAP policy he 
knew why they could be beneficial to him and was keen to take out another. And I agree that 
the term of the policy would  have  been  important for him, which  is why Sytner  should  have  
pointed it out. And I think if Sytner had made the difference in terms clear  to Mr J, hed have 
declined the policy Sytner offered and bought another one.
Sytners also argued that if its required to step into the shoes of the insurer and pay a claim 
on the basis of a four year policy, then Mr J will have a benefit  that other consumers who 
paid for a three year policy didn't receive. I agree thats the case. But I can't now turn back 
the clock. As I've said above Im satisfied that if Sytner had provided appropriate advice Mr J 
would have bought a four year policy. So Sytner  needs to put him back into the position he 
would have been in if that had happened. And that means it needs to settle his claim as if 
hed bought a four year policy.
I acknowledge that its possible  that Mr J might have paid more  for a four year policy  than he 
did for his three year policy. But at the time of the sale Sytner didn't sell a four year policy. 
So Mr J would have had to buy the four year policy from another  provider. And we can't 
know for certain which policy he would have selected or the costs of that. And some policies 
sold online  have a smaller commission element than those sold in car dealerships. So its 
possible that he could  have bought a similar four year policy  for a similar price or less than 
what he paid for his three year policy. But Sytners recommendation of a three  year policy, 
which I believe Mr J relied on, prevented that from happening. It follows that, to put Mr J 
back into the position he would have been  in, Sytner  needs to step into the shoes of the 
insurer and provide cover on the basis that Mr J had bought  a four year policy, regardless 
that this might put him into a better  position than other consumers who paid for a three  year 
policy. Although those other consumers would have knowingly  and voluntarily taken out a 
three year policy, whereas  for the reasons given above - Mr J hadnt. Sytner should add 
simple interest to its settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Js claim to his 
motor insurer to the date Sytner makes payment.
I agree  that in order to enable Sytner to do that Mr J will be required to provide sufficient 
evidence to allow Sytner to validate  and calculate the settlement. That evidence  should be 
similar to the information he would have been  required  to provide to his GAP insurer  should 
he have been  eligible  to claim from it.
Ref: DRN77283906Further, as set out in my provisional decision,  Sytner  should  also reimburse Mr Js excess,  
up to maximum  of £500. It should  add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date of Mr Js claim to his motor  insurer to the date Sytner makes payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Sytner Group  Ltd to step into 
the shoes of Mr Js GAP insurer and pay his claim  for the greater of the difference between 
his motor insurers settlement and:
 the invoice  price of his car; or 
 the amount  required to settle the outstanding  balance on Mr Js finance  agreement.
It should also refund the excess Mr Js motor insurer charged - up to £500 - as per the terms 
of her policy. It should add simple  interest  to the above amounts at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date of Mr Js claim to his motor  insurer to the date Sytner makes payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7728390