K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in 2003 that was linked to a loan.
background
The PPI policy was paid for by a regular premium. Its sale occurred in a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr K disagreed with these  findings. He has reiterated his concerns  that Santander did not 
explain to him that PPI was being  added  to the loan.  Mr K wants  his complaint  to be 
reviewed, and this is why it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
I have firstly considered whether Mr K was given a choice about taking out PPI. I appreciate 
that Mr K has provided his recollections about what happened when he met with the 
Santander adviser who arranged the loan and PPI. However, in my view it would be 
understandable if Mr K found it difficult to recall  all the details of his discussions with the 
Santander adviser, bearing  in mind that these events happened a number  of years ago. 
Santander has only been able to provide a limited  amount of information from the point  of 
sale. I dont find this surprising, again  due to the number of years that have passed.
Santander has been able to provide a sample which it says is similar to the loan agreement 
that Mr K would have  had to sign in 2003.  This shows that PPI was being taken out, and 
confirms the regular premium amounts. In addition,  my understanding of the process  used 
by Santander  when selling PPI related to personal loans at this time was that the loan 
application completed included a choice  whether  or not to take out PPI. Overall, I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr K was offered the PPI as an option, and that he requested it be 
taken out.
Santander accepts  that it advised  Mr K to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mr K could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at Mr Ks circumstances when the policy  was sold,  my view is that it was 
suitable for him for the following reasons:
Mr K has confirmed  the sick pay entitlement he had from his employer, and that he also 
had some savings. However, the PPI policy would  have covered the loan repayments for 
up to the full term of the loan if Mr K had been unable to work due to disability. It would 
also have provided cover for up to one year for a claim for unemployment. This would 
have been in addition to any other benefits Mr K was entitled to. On balance my view is 
that PPI provided  a useful benefit to Mr K if he was unable to work because of disability 
or unemployment.
Ref: DRN72628592It seems  that Mr K was eligible  for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy that might  make  it unsuitable for him.
The PPI premium looks to have been  affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mr K as much information 
as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy  was suitable for 
Mr K, my view is that better information  would not have put him off taking out the PPI. My 
conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold to Mr K.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr K any extra  interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr K the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr K 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262859