K822xcomplaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) rejected an international payment 
into his UK account.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2018. Barclays have agreed to my 
provisional findings. Mr Q said he agreed  with my findings and also mentioned some 
additional points  for me to consider, which Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr Q says that, early  on while Barclays were  
investigating the transaction, he worked out that the SWIFT code had changed without  him 
realising. He says he raised this with Barclays as the possible cause of the problem. I have 
no reason to doubt this. Indeed, later on, Barclays themselves said that the change in 
SWIFT code was the reason  the transaction failed. But as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think it was the SWIFT code which caused the problem here.  I think it was 
the change to the International Bank  Account Number (IBAN).
Mr Q has also said that he couldnt  see any manual  intervention  or any difference in the data 
entry between the failed transaction and the previous successful transactions.  This is 
because the manual intervention happened within Barclays, during the processing of the 
transaction. The information  supplied  by Mr Q / his bank in Saudi Arabia was the same  as 
for previous transactions, as Mr Q has said. So the new IBAN wasnt input by the sending  
bank and ultimately that is what led to the manual intervention by Barclays.
Mr Q has also said that the funds were put on hold for six days before arriving back  in his 
bank account  in Saudi Arabia. I appreciate Mr Qs frustration  here,  but when I looked into 
this I found that the delay wasnt caused by Barclays so it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them  
to do anything about that.
Ive taken into account all of these points as well as the other issues  Mr Q has raised. But I 
havent seen anything which changes my view of what needs  to be done  to put things right 
here. So I still think that additional  compensation of £100 is the fair outcome here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), my final 
decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must now pay £100 to Mr Q (in addition  to the £100 
in total already paid) as compensation  for the further distress and inconvenience caused  to 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN71191842Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71191843Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank plc (Barclays)  rejected an international payment  into
his UK account.
Background
In April 2018,  a payment of 95,000 Saudi Arabian Riyals  (SAR) was sent by Mr Qs bank in
Saudi Arabia  to his Barclays  account in the UK. But the payment was returned by Barclays
before it reached  Mr Qs account. The money left the Saudi Arabian  account  on 25 April
2018 but didnt arrive back there until 2 May 2018. At that point  the funds  were converted
back from Sterling into SAR.  Due to the change in exchange rate over those few days, the
amount Mr Q received  back  was only 88,533.89 SAR, a difference of around £1,250 from
the amount originally transferred.
Mr Q contacted Barclays to find out why the money had been returned.  Barclays werent
able to trace  the funds  at first and then werent  able to explain why they had been returned.
Mr Q made a formal complaint  and was given differing information over the course of that
complaint as to why the money didnt reach his UK bank  account.
Mr Q believes the money was returned due to a mistake by Barclays and would like them to
cover the loss of £1,250.  He had previously  received payments into his Barclays account
from Saudi Arabia without any problem, the most recent one being  in December 2017.
Barclays issued a final response  letter in June 2018. In that letter  they said that the money
didnt arrive because  the bank in Saudi Arabia used the wrong SWIFT  code. Also, the
address quoted in the beneficiary address field didnt  match the address Barclays hold for Mr
Q. So they sent the money  back and asked  the remitting bank to resend it using the correct
SWIFT code and address.
Barclays also said in their final response letter that the transfer in December 2017 was
successful because  the remitting bank hadnt quoted the wrong SWIFT code.  That meant
the payment wasnt picked up for any additional checks to be made.
They said they hadnt made a mistake but acknowledged  their poor customer service in
dealing with the issue and the time it took the find out what had happened. They credited
£50 to Mr Qs account as an apology  for the distress and inconvenience caused and another
£50 to cover  his call costs, in recognition  of the time he had spent  trying to find out what  had
happened. Mr Q wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service.
When our adjudicator looked into it, he thought that Barclays had dealt with the complaint
fairly and he didnt ask them to do any more.  Mr Q wasnt  satisfied with that view and asked
for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have said that use of the wrong  SWIFT code was the main  reason  the payment
was rejected. They said the wrong  SWIFT  code  wasnt  used for the payment in December
2017. But the paperwork shows that the same SWIFT  code was quoted by the Saudi
Arabian bank on both occasions. And that code was out of date on both occasions, as the
bank statements from the time show.
Barclays told our adjudicator  that the December payment was successful because it was
Ref: DRN71191844sent to a third party UK bank  first and then forwarded  as a CHAPS payment to Barclays.
They said that with CHAPS  payments, the SWIFT code isnt needed. Instead  the information
relied on was Mr Qs account number  and sort code which were shown  correctly.  So in
December, it didnt  matter  that the SWIFT code was wrong.
I asked Barclays a bit more  about this to understand why the April payment wasnt treated in
the same way, particularly as the paperwork indicated that this had also come via a third
party bank. Barclays confirmed  that the April payment  did come through  the same third party
UK bank. It was also passed  on by CHAPS.  But it was rejected  and sent back  to the third
party bank.
Barclays have told me that a structural reform process took place after December 2017. As
part of that, International Bank  Account Numbers (IBANs) were  changed. As a result,
international payments to Barclays  customers in the UK which use the wrong (old) IBAN are
stopped for repair. This means that there is manual  intervention by a processing  team at
Barclays, who can correct the IBAN. At the same time they check the beneficiary details.
Barclays have told me that the wrong IBAN was used on the April transfer.  The payment was
therefore stopped for repair but was rejected because there was no address  given and the
account name  didnt match their records. This differs from what they said before,  which was
that the address was wrong. They hadnt previously  said anything about the account  name.
And they had said it was the wrong SWIFT code which  caused the payment to be rejected.
So there are a number of inconsistencies in what Barclays have said. However, they have
been consistent about the fact that manual intervention was needed  for the April payment
but not the December  payment. So Im satisfied  that it was the change  in IBAN and
introduction of the repairs  process following  the structural  review which led to the April
payment being returned.
This leads to the question of whether Mr Q knew about the changes to the IBAN. Barclays
have told me that letters were sent out to customers with their statements before  the
structural reform process, advising them of the IBAN  changes.  Mr Q doesnt appear to have
received such  a letter. However, I can see from his bank  statements that the IBAN did
change between December  2017 and April 2018.  The statement dated  5 February 2018
shows the new IBAN. Statements  before that date show the old IBAN,  which was used on
the April transfer.
Section 5 of the terms and conditions of Mr Qs account says:
If we have to change your sort code or account number, well tell you were going to do this
and how this will affect payments sent to, or paid from, your old sort code or account
number. If we can, well redirect  the payment and give your new account details to the
person or the bank making the payment so they can use them in the future .
I would expect  Barclays  to apply this approach to changes to the IBAN.  I cant be sure
whether a letter confirming the new IBAN  was sent to Mr Q, but he clearly wasnt aware  of
the change. Barclays did try to direct the payment to the right account via the repair process.
Unfortunately though,  the discrepancies of the address and account name  meant that the
payment was returned.  Whilst  I appreciate how frustrating that would have been for Mr Q, I
think its reasonable  for Barclays  to have these checks in place.
I think  Barclays approach to the change in IBAN was reasonable. I also think  the additional
checks they had in place  for verifying payments were sensible. So I dont think they have
acted unfairly  in the way they handled the payment. There were too many discrepancies for
them to be able to direct  those funds to Mr Qs account.
Ref: DRN71191845As to the fact that the money wasnt received back in Mr Qs Saudi Arabian account until 2
May, Barclays have confirmed that they returned it to the third party UK bank on 26 April. So
I cant  do anything about the delay  as it wasnt caused  by Barclays.
However, Im thinking of reaching a different conclusion from our adjudicator  because I dont
think the way Barclays have dealt with this complaint has been fair. The reasons they have
given for why the payment was rejected have been inconsistent and the explanation given in
the final response letter  now appears to be incorrect. Mr Q should  have been able to rely on
that so that he knew what he needed to do to ensure future  payments could be made
successfully.
I think  Barclays should  have  looked into this more thoroughly at the outset and explained to
Mr Q about  the IBAN much  earlier. Instead, he has had to pursue the complaint this far in
order to get to the bottom of the situation.  That has taken up his time and been an ongoing
inconvenience.
Im aware that Barclays have paid £50 to Mr Q for distress and inconvenience,  but I dont
think thats enough  to reflect  whats  happened  here and hes had more  inconvenience since
then. (Im aware they have also paid £50 for call costs.) Ill look at any further information  I
receive from the parties but, unless anything changes my mind, my decision is likely to be
that Barclays should pay a further £100 to Mr Q for the ongoing  distress and inconvenience
caused to him by the poor handling of the complaint and wrong information given in the final
response letter.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, my
provisional decision  is that Barclays Bank plc must pay £100 to Mr Q as compensation for
the distress and inconvenience caused  to him.
Katy Kidd 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7119184