K822xcomplaint
Mr As complaint is that a problem within AxiCorp Limiteds platform prevented him from 
depositing money into his trading account  over a number of months.  He refers to an event 
between 23 and 25 October 2018  (the October  event) during which he repeatedly tried to 
fund his account in order to avoid  a margin breach (and margin  call closure of his long 
GBPUSD position)  but was prevented from doing  so. The position was then closed due to a 
margin call. 
Mr A seeks  compensation for losses caused  by the payment  system  problem. He also says 
AxiCorp unfairly blocked his account and that it unfairly  tried to manipulate, against him, the 
introduction of the European Securities and Markets  Authority (ESMA) rules in 2018.
background 
Mr A has presented a collection  of evidence to support his complaint. They include 
communications with AxiCorp,  screenshots of the recurring payment system problem and 
account activity  information. He highlights  the event in October  2018,  the recurring payment 
system problem, the assertion that his account  was blocked and AxiCorps  alleged  attempt 
to manipulate the ESMA rules against  him as the complaints key issues. 
The last issue  about the ESMA  rules  is based on his allegation that AxiCorp tried to 
switch the basis  for his account between Australia and the UK in order  to exploit the tighter 
margin requirement introduced by ESMA and to make a margin breach in his account  more 
likely. Associated with this issue is his allegation that AxiCorp was manipulating the basis  for 
his account in general because its offices  in Australia and the UK were  administering  his 
account and communicating with him at different periods.
AxiCorps position is mainly as follows:
It has neither blocked Mr As account nor has it manipulated the basis for the 
account, it has been and it remains a UK based account.
Mr As GBPUSD position was legitimately closed, based on the agreed  terms and 
conditions for the account, after the relevant margin breach  in his account.
It accepts  that there was a problem within its online payment  system on 24 October. 
However, there were  alternative ways  including bank transfer and electronic-Wallet 
options  in which he could have funded his account and he was contractually 
responsible for funding his account (as part of his monitoring and management of 
margin in his account)  through  the ways that were available to him.
However, as a gesture of goodwill it offers Mr A 1,000 Euros  for his experience  in the 
matter.
Mr A referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into it. He 
accepted that AxiCorps  payment system problem had prevented Mr A from funding  his 
account, in order  to avoid the margin breach  incident, and he noted  evidence that showed 
Mr As frustrated  efforts in this respect.  He did not accept AxiCorps  argument about 
alternative funding  options because he considered that those options were  not made clear 
on the online payment system.
The investigator considered the claim for financial loss from the October event and noted 
evidence that the market  went sharply  against  Mr As GBPUSD  position after the margin  call 
closure and remained  so in the following months  so, but for the closure, the position would 
Ref: DRN72023652have incurred more  loss. Overall, he concluded that there was not a basis to say the closure 
had caused him a financial loss.
The investigator agreed with AxiCorps offer of 1,000 Euros  to Mr A. He considered that it 
catered for the trouble and upset caused to him by the payment problem and communication 
problems he experienced with AxiCorp. With regards to Mr As claim about  recurrence of the 
payment problem, he accepted AxiCorps evidence that the account had not been  blocked; 
he noted that the reason  behind the recurring problem appeared to be unclear; and he took 
the view that Mr A could  either have explored the alternative funding  options or he could 
have considered moving to a new account  provider.
The investigator also accepted evidence that Mr As account is and has always  been UK 
based and he took the view that even if AxiCorp attempted to change  its basis such  a 
change never happened.  He noted  that communication from AxiCorps  offices in different 
territories reflected the 24/7 trading service it provided.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome.  He considered that the full effect of the recurring payment 
problem, over around five months, had not been  properly addressed and that the same  
applied to the trouble, upset and distress  it caused him. He maintained  that he had 
submitted enough  evidence  to illustrate  the extent of the problem and to establish that his 
account was intentionally blocked.  He also said it was possible  that he could have recovered 
a part of the loss in the GBPUSD position,  but for the margin call closure.  The investigator 
was not persuaded to change his view and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find as follows:
Like the investigator, I accept that AxiCorps payment system problem during the 
October event prevented Mr A from funding his account and led to the margin breach 
and margin call closure he tried to avoid. There is sufficient evidence of his efforts  in 
trying to make payments into his trading account  and of the payment system  problem  
that prevented  him from doing so. I have also considered  and I accept  the wider  
evidence he has submitted about how the same problem continued to recur  
thereafter. I understand why AxiCorp says Mr A should have  sought  alternative 
options to fund his account. It is arguable that he could have made  enquiries  in this 
respect at the time, but it is equally  arguable  that AxiCorp should have provided 
clearer guidance to him (on those options)  which was missing  from the online 
payment page  and which does  not appear  to have been given to him at the time.
There is insufficient evidence to uphold, on balance, Mr As claim for a financial loss 
from the closure of the GBPUSD position  in the October event. Evidence suggests  
that the position would have  been further  into a loss if it was kept open as he 
intended to do. I understand his argument  about  the possibility of future  events in 
which he might  have  been able to recover from the loss within the position, but my 
task is to determine matters mainly  on the balance of probabilities   not possibilities.  I 
have not seen evidence to establish  that, but for the margin call closure,  the position 
would have probably recovered  or that Mr A had a plan for the position that would 
Ref: DRN72023653have probably  achieved a better outcome than the loss which  arose from the closure.  
In the absence of such  evidence, I do not have a basis to uphold  his claim.
The same  analysis  applies to any claim for financial loss that Mr A considers to have 
resulted from any subsequent events in which the payment system  problem  affected  
his management  of a position(s). I have  not seen evidence of such  events  or loss. In 
addition, following the October event he ought  reasonably to have  been  on notice 
about the payment system problem and about  its recurrence,  so he ought  to have 
mitigated his position by either  making  arrangements for alternative  ways to fund his 
account or, as the investigator suggested,  by considering another account provider. 
To summarise the above, the substance  of Mr As complaint about the October event 
is upheld, but there  is not a basis to uphold  his claim for financial loss.
AxiCorps evidence is that Mr As account was not blocked. I understand his 
disagreement in this respect, given the repeated problems he faced in funding  his 
account. However, I do not have enough evidence to definitively determine whether 
(or not) the issue was limited only to a problem  with the online payment system  as 
opposed to it being a wider issue about a restriction on Mr As account as he claims. 
The availability of alternative ways to fund his account would suggest  that the issue 
was limited to a problem  with the online payment system.
I agree  with the investigators treatment of the ESMA and account basis  issue. I note 
Mr As argument about an attempt to make his account more likely  to run into a 
margin breach by subjecting it to the new ESMA rules at the time. However, available  
evidence is that his retail client account  was and had always been  UK based, so it 
would have been subjected to the ESMA rules anyway and without the need for the 
alleged manipulation. This also negates  the suggestion of wider manipulation of the 
basis of Mr As account. As it appears  to have always been a UK based account, it 
would also appear that his engagement  with non-UK  offices of AxiCorp probably 
arose from its 24/7 trading  service and not from a change of account basis.
I endorse AxiCorps offer to Mr A of the 1,000 Euros payment. I do not consider it 
insufficient for the trouble  and upset caused  to him by the payment problem matter 
(mainly with regards to the October event)  and the difficulties  in communications with 
AxiCorp. I am not persuaded to include his entire  experience (over  about five 
months) in my consideration  of this issue. The main issue was the payment  system 
problem and he knew around the time of the October event that it was a recurring 
problem, so he ought to have mitigated his position around that time as I mentioned 
above. If, as it appears, he did not do that it is arguable that he also did not mitigate  
the trouble and upset he was facing as he should  have.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr As complaint but only in relation to the trouble and 
upset caused  to him (as explained  above).  I order  AxiCorp Limited to pay him 1,000 Euros in 
this respect. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ref: DRN72023654Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7202365