K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Wealthmasters  Financial  Management  Ltd (Wealthmasters) gave him unsuitable 
advice to make an investment in Elysian  Fuels  (EF), following the transfer of his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) funds  to a Self-invested Personal  Pension (SIPP). He 
says this resulted  in him becoming  liable for an unauthorised payment charge levied by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC).
background
Mr G had known Mr T from around 1988  when  theyd worked together at a firm as agents 
dealing with life assurance and pension  products.  While he had left the industry by around  
2000, Mr T had remained in the sector  and at the time of the events  complained about was 
working for Wealthmasters as an adviser.  They had kept in touch, meeting socially from time 
to time and catching-up over the phone.
Mr G says that in 2012 Mr T contacted him on several occasions to tell him about an 
investment opportunity with EF. He says Mr T knew he was a member of their former 
employers OPS and that he had deferred  benefits. They  met with the promoter  of the EF 
investment, Future  Capital Partners  (FCP) on 8 January 2013 to discuss  matters in detail.
Mr G says the game plan discussed was to transfer his deferred OPS  benefits into a SIPP,  
to then purchase the EF shares and to sell them to his SIPP,  liberating funds within.  He says 
Mr T had sold him the idea, but in order for him to be able to facilitate the transaction Mr G 
says he was told hed have to say hed heard  about  the opportunity from a friend.
On the same  day Wealthmasters completed a new client fact-find, identifying  Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives. He was 52 at the time and if possible,  wanted to retire  when 
he reached 60. Its recorded  Mr G wasnt satisfied with growth rates  for his occupational 
pension and felt he could do better  by investing his funds.
Wealthmasters provided Mr G with advice about  what he should  do. On 28 April 2013  one of 
its advisers, who was qualified to review  OPSs, strongly recommended  that he shouldnt go 
ahead with the transfer of his deferred  pension  benefits. Mr G then provided  an insistent 
client instruction noting the warnings hed been  given  but making clear he wanted to 
proceed.
Subsequently, on 10 May 2013 Wealthmasters  advised Mr G to use a James Hay SIPP  as 
the vehicle for his pension funds because it allowed for a broad  range of investment options. 
Mr G accepted the recommendation and again made clear he understood he was going 
against its recommendation that he shouldnt transfer his OPS funds.
In August  2013,  taking into account  Mr Gs objectives and circumstances Wealthmasters 
recommended that he invest  his SIPP  funds  with EF. It noted  that hed been  thinking about 
this for several months and had done his own research during that time. The investment was 
complicated, and described  by Wealthmasters in the following terms:
Ref: DRN75920182To facilitate the purchase of shares [FCP]part of the Future  Capital group of companies 
would give a limited  recourse loan to all Elysian investors. The investors became partners in 
an LLP (of which there  were many) and Vireol Ltd entered into arrangements  with each of 
the investor partnerships  for the use of the biofuel  plant  and paid a stipulated annual  income  
to each of the individual members of the partnerships.  This income would  fully repay the loan 
that the individuals had arranged with [FCP] over an 8-year  period. The deal itself was a 
circular arrangement whereby [FCP] would  issue  the loan agreement, Ebury Engineering 
would run the plant,  Vireol  contracted with the partnerships to pay an agreed fixed  annual  
income, which in turn, would re-pay the loans  in entirety.
From Mr Gs bank  account and the James Hay SIPP transaction statement Ive seen, the 
arrangement appears to have worked in the following manner:
- Mr G bought 95,000  EF shares at a value of £1 each.
- He was also required  to invest £3,562.50 into the limited liability company (LLP)  he was 
becoming a partner in.
- Mr G paid Future Fuels  LTD £15,770  on 5 September  2013, this presumably represented 
the limited recourse element of the transaction. So, it was supposedly  the extent of his 
exposure.
- We can deduce  the non-recourse loan facility provided by FCP to Mr G was £82,792.50.  
Together with Mr Gs injection  of funds, this enabled  his purchase of the EF shares.
- Mr Gs OPS funds  were moved  to his James Hay SIPP on 6 September  2013. The transfer 
value was £103,762.
- On 3 December Mr G sold his EF shares  into his SIPP, and £95,000 was credited to his 
personal bank  account.  No tax was paid on this.
- After allowing for Wealthmasters adviser fees of over £6,000, little remained in Mr Gs 
SIPP. Indeed,  after James Hays fees, and what appear to be personal  withdrawals of 
around £780, by October 2016 his account  was empty.
Unfortunately, in 2016 problems with the transaction began to surface. FCP wrote to James 
Hay indicating that EF would be wound up due to unpaid tax. And by 2017 it became clear 
that HMRC was concerned about this and other  similar  schemes.
In May 2018  HMRC  wrote to Mr G in his capacity as a partner in the EF LLP. It said the 
following:
An LLP is in law a corporate and it is only transparent for tax purposes (that is the members  
are assessed or relieved  on the results  of the LLP personally) where it carries on a business 
with a view to profit. If the LLP does not carry on a business with a view to profit then the 
LLP will be taxed as a corporate and the partnership loss and profits entries  should  not be 
returned.
HMRC also considers that the shares  disposed of to the Pension  Scheme  were  worthless.  
As a result of this the payment received from the Pension Scheme is regarded  as an 
unauthorised payment  from the scheme.  Unauthorised  payments from Pension Schemes 
attract a tax charge  of 40% under S208 Finance Act (FA) 2004.  In addition to this the 
unauthorised payment  may attract a surcharge  of 15% under S209 FA2004.
However, in the alternative, and without prejudice to the comments  made  above  it is 
recognised that there is an argument that the shares were worth  their face value, net of the 
limited recourse loan provided for their purchase. On that basis they would be worth about  
Ref: DRN7592018312p in the £ and I am authorised to tell you that, without prejudice and notwithstanding my 
comments above, HMRC would be prepared to settle by agreement on that basis, in order  to 
avoid the delay and expense of litigation.  Such an agreement would reduce the tax charged 
on these transactions  by about 12%.
HMRC had ruled thered been unauthorised payments from pension funds, and these would 
incur charges, penalties  and interest.  Mr G received a bill for over £ 50,000. He told us he 
paid the tax, penalty and interest demand in December 2018.  He did so in good  faith to 
mitigate further interest and charges. 
Mr G later informed this Service  that in May 2020  HMRC had refunded him the payment hed 
made in relation to the EF transaction. Theres ongoing litigation about the proposed 
approach being taken  by the tax authorities  in this matter.
Mr G has a number of concerns about what happened. In particular, he didnt think 
Wealthmasters had done enough to alert him to the potential for HMRC anti-avoidance 
action. And he said if hed known about  this he wouldnt have  invested  in EF. Mr G says he 
wasnt informed hed become a partner  in an LLP as a result of the transaction. He also said 
that hed been treated as a person  of high net worth  (HNW) and it wouldve known this 
wasnt right.
Mr G later broadened his complaint to question why Wealthmasters  had allowed  him to 
transfer his OPS funds  in the first place.
Wealthmasters refuted Mr Gs complaint. It said it had followed appropriate processes 
throughout. It had recommended  that he shouldnt proceed with the transfer of his OPS, but 
hed insisted on doing so. It had later recommended a SIPP that was consistent with his 
investment intentions.
With regards to the EF investment, Wealthmasters says both it and FCP had given warnings 
to Mr G that HMRC could change its rules.  It also asserts that it was Mr Gs decision to sell 
his EF shares into his SIPP as a shelter for any potential gains, rather than establishing an 
off-shore trust.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint. He thought the way in which funds had been 
released tax-free from his pension  was inevitably going to attract  HMRC scrutiny  and highly 
likely to result in a judgement that thered been  an unauthorised payment.
Wealthmasters disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions  and so Mr Gs complaint was 
passed to me for review.  I issued  a provisional decision in December 2020. I didnt receive 
any substantive  new evidence or arguments  about the merits of the case,  so I saw no 
reason to depart from my initial conclusions.
I issued my second provisional decision  earlier  this month because it had been some  time 
since my last communication. During that time the position of HMRC with regards to the EF 
scheme and how it will move  forward  hasnt developed significantly. So, given the 
uncertainty here, it was important for my proposed redress  to take account of this status,  
whilst also seeking to bring matters with our Service to a satisfactory conclusion. Neither 
party provided any further information  or argument. So, again,  I see no reason to depart from 
my findings  and conclusions in this final decision.
Ref: DRN75920184my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and arguments concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the points raised.  Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Gs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Wealthmasters for Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains  eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable  care to organise  and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard  to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Wealthmasters. As 
such, I need to have  regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R requires  firms, among other things, to take account of a customers  
preferences regarding risk taking, their risk profile  and to ensure they are able financially to 
bear any related  investment risks consistent  with their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
Ref: DRN75920185The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure from 3% to 5% 
of their portfolios,  where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated  
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the EF investment wasnt technically a UCIS, it shared similar  characteristics 
including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject to counter-party risk 
and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
did Wealthmasters adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it?
In short,  I dont think Wealthmasters met the regulatory requirements  in its transaction with 
Mr G. Ill explain  why.
Wealthmasters had to obtain information  from Mr G in order to understand essential  facts 
about him. It had to believe  that:
- The service or recommended transaction met Mr Gs investment objectives (including his 
attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted to invest for).
- Mr G was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
- Mr G had the necessary  experience or knowledge  to understand the risks involved. 
Wealthmasters hasnt  met these obligations.
At the time Wealthmasters conducted a fact-find identifying Mr Gs circumstances and 
objectives, he was 52 and wanted to retire when he reached 60. He was married with one 
dependent son. He was said to be in excellent health.
Ref: DRN75920186Mr G ran his own property  renovation  firm. He had an annual income of around £50,000. No 
other details  about  his income or outgoings and liabilities  were  captured. In terms of assets, 
his house value is shown. Its also recorded hed realised £85,000 from the sale of a classic 
car. And he was in receipt  of a gift from his mother-in-law of £100,000, who was said to be a 
HNW individual, worth  £1.5m. Her relationship with Mr G was said to be good and that shed  
always be able to look after him.
Mr Gs priorities  for advice  were recorded as being  firstly pension  planning and second  lump 
sum investments. His CIS OPS had been worth around  £91,000 in 2012. The fact-find said:
you want to consider  transferring [your OPS] to a SIPP because you will [be able] to 
choose your own [investment] and play the market.  You view this as play money  because  
[you] expect a large inheritance of at least £500,000
The fact-find said Mr G wasnt satisfied with growth rates  for his OPS and felt he could do 
better by investing his funds. He wanted maximum flexibility to do what he wanted and was 
said to be considering commercial projects, unquoted shares, structured products and 
commodities. Mr G was said to have  a good  understanding of pensions  because of his 
previous career in financial services.
On the same  day the fact-find was conducted  on 8 January  2013,  Mr G and Mr T also met 
with FCP the promoter of the EF proposal. Mr T produced a note of the meeting  which  said:
[Mr G] had heard  from a friend about  [EF] shares  and was interested  in investing.  [An FCP 
representative] came across to assist  me in discussing the pros and cons of the shares. We 
spoke for about  2 hourswe discussed at length  [Mr G] could lose all of [his] money  as it 
was a private equity  investment. [He] was given brochures and went away  to [research]  
about it.
The fact-find Wealthmasters was responsible for was the foundation  for the transactions  that 
followed between it and Mr G.
Mr G has asserted a fundamental problem with the fact-finding exercise Wealthmasters 
undertook. He told us key bits of information were a fabrication. He says it was made clear 
to him this was necessary to enable the transfer  of his OPS  benefits into a SIPP  and then to 
invest his funds in the EF proposal. For example, Mr G says:
- Rather than finding out about  the EF proposal  through a friend - an implied third party  - it 
was Mr T whod raised the matter with him several times in 2012.  Mr T initiated and planned 
the whole  process.
- There  was no inheritance or gift from his mother-in-law. That was made  up. And while  he 
did have a valuable  classic car, he hadnt  sold it at the time of the advice.
In addition, Mr G contacted this Service with some  additional information  in support of his 
case in 2019.  After reviewing his bank statements, he remembered that Mr T had lent him 
the money necessary for his contribution for buying his EF shares - £15,770.
Ive seen a copy  of his statements, and theres  a credit to his account for that amount 
coming from Wealthmasters  adviser  on 5 September 2013, the day prior to his OPS funds 
being transferred  to his James hay SIPP.
Ref: DRN75920187Ive also seen a copy of Mr Gs bank statement showing he repaid Mr T the exact same sum 
on 4 December 2013. This was the day after his account had been credited with £95,000  
released from his SIPP  account in payment for the EF shares  it had bought from the LLP Mr 
G was a partner in.
Ive a number  of concerns about  this situation. It was clearly  inappropriate for 
Wealthmasters adviser  to have been enabling the transaction in what appears to have  been  
a private capacity. There are obvious conflicts of interest and I can understand why it says 
its appalled by what has come to light here.
Wealthmasters has called  into question  the veracity of Mr Gs version of events. It asks why 
he happily  signed various documents including the fact-find, meeting notes and a statement 
that he was a HNW client  if he knew these statements to be incorrect.  It said hed worked in 
the industry for many  years and so wouldve understood  the importance  of making sure 
things were right and the consequences of not doing so. It went  on to say:
[Mr G] has in previous correspondence  clearly stated that he was looking for a way to fund 
his property development business and it seems  highly  likely that the arrangement was 
devised between  him and Mr T in order to facilitate this. It also seems  likely, that Mr G was 
fully aware of the facts and went along with Mr T in order to transact the business and obtain 
the funds he needed - resulting in an abuse of process and with blatant  disregard to 
Wealthmasters own business  standards, regulatory  status and good reputation.
Wealthmasters points  arent without merit. Mr G failed to make  both it and this Service fully 
aware of what had happened in his dealings with Mr T as early on, or in the detail he 
shouldve. It maybe he thought some of this detail  mayve  hindered  his case.  Or he may 
genuinely have  forgotten what seem to me noteworthy details. This is unfortunate, it hasnt 
helped his case and has complicated matters unnecessarily.
Nevertheless, the contemporaneous  evidence Mr G has now provided shows  the transaction  
to place his pension funds in unregulated investments was not only advised on and arranged 
by Wealthmasters,  but one of its advisers appears to have  facilitated  it through  the provision 
of a private loan to the individual he was advising.
I think this strongly suggests that rather than as indicated by the fact-find that Mr G had 
access to significant  liquid  assets - the supposed gift from his mother-in-law and the 
proceeds from the sale of his classic  car, totalling £185,000  he actually needed a loan from 
Wealthmasters adviser  in order to proceed. It corroborates what hes told us about  the 
accuracy of the fact-find and some  of the other information weve  been  presented  with from 
the time of the events complained about.
Wealthmasters had to take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly 
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. This includes ensuring  a robust 
compliance function. The onus was on it to root out and deal with poor practice like that 
evidenced here  it failed  to do this.
Mr G signed a Statement for Certified  High Net Worth  Individual  in accordance with the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005  on 2 September  
2013. So, a few days before he actually received a loan from Wealthmasters adviser.
Even if I didnt hold Wealthmasters mainly  responsible for the misrepresentation of some of 
Mr Gs circumstances in its fact-find   which I do in large part - I still dont think the 
information it did record shows he met the criteria  to be considered a HNW individual.
Ref: DRN75920188The regulations state that a certified  HNW  investor is an individual who has signed a 
statement in the following  terms:
I declare  that I am a certified high net worth individual  for the purposes of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005.  I understand that this 
means:
a) I can receive financial promotions  that may not have been  approved  by a person 
authorised by the Financial Services Authority;
b) the content of such financial promotions  may not conform to the rules issued by the 
Financial Services Authority;
c) by signing this statement I may lose significant  rights;
d) I may have no right to complain to either  of the following -
i. the Financial Services Authority; or
ii. The Financial Ombudsman  Scheme;
e) I may have no right to seek compensation from the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.
I am a certified high net worth individual because at least one of the following applies 
a) I had, during  the financial year immediately preceding the date below, an annual income 
to the value of £100,000 or more.
b) I held,  throughout the financial year immediately preceding the date below, net assets to 
the value of £250,000  or more. Net assets for these purposes do not include:
i. the property which  is my primary residence or any loan secured on that residence;
ii. any rights  of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance within  the meaning of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000; or
iii. any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise)  which  are payable  on the termination 
of my service or on my death  or retirement and to which I am (or my dependants  are), or 
may be, entitled.
I accept that I can lose my property and other  assets  from making  investment decisions 
based on financial promotions. I am aware that it is open to me to seek  advice from 
someone who specialises  in advising on investments.
The information in the fact-find  showed Mr Gs annual income was around £50,000 and that 
his assets, excluding his pension fund and main residence, were worth somewhat less than 
£250,000. So, even given the false information about his circumstances, I dont think he was 
a HNW investor. And I think Wealthmasters ought to have known this at the time.
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean the investment in EF shouldnt  have been promoted 
to Mr G. Other exemptions  can be available  in law and under the Conduct  of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) even with the promotion restriction, it was a matter  for the operator of 
the scheme to decide on what basis to accept applications.
Ref: DRN75920189Nevertheless, I think Mr G being  classified as a HNW investor was an important part of the 
application process for the EF shares. When I read the brochure produced by FCP I can see 
it required him to certify as HNW  in order to provide the loan that facilitated  the purchase  of 
the shares.
So, if Wealthmasters hadnt  allowed  a misleading  HNW investor statement to be made  under 
its duty of care to Mr G, I think its highly unlikely  the promoter and/or the SIPP  provider 
wouldve accepted  the purchase  of the shares  and their transfer  into the SIPP.
The loan provided to Mr G also demonstrated the willingness of Wealthmasters adviser to 
work closely with him in achieving what Ive no doubt he wanted  to do at the time - to release 
his OPS funds tax free into a SIPP to enable  him to take up the EF proposal. I think  his 
desire to invest in what he thought was a good  prospect overrode his judgement. Hes 
acknowledged as much to this Service.
It was the role of Wealthmasters  adviser  to have  provided a sense check on what  Mr G 
wanted to do. To understand not only his circumstances and objectives but also his needs 
for retirement planning and to advise what was in his best interests. Rather, Mr T seems to 
have been set on facilitating  the former and neglecting the latter.
In a suitability  report about the transfer of Mr Gs OPS dated 28 April 2013, a different 
Wealthmasters adviser  strongly  recommended that he shouldnt  proceed with transferring 
his deferred pension benefits.  The report set out many of the warnings I wouldve expected  
to see, about the loss of guarantees and protections. It also set out how strongly any 
replacement pension plan would need to perform  simply  to match  his OPS arrangements.
But Mr G produced an insistent client instruction  acknowledging the warnings hed been 
given but making  clear  he still wanted  to proceed. He made  clear  he wanted the flexibility to 
do what he wanted with the funds. And he also noted his knowledge of pensions  built-up 
over 15-years.
Subsequently, on 10 May 2013 Wealthmasters  advised Mr G to use a James Hay SIPP  as 
the vehicle for his pension funds because it allowed for a broad  range of investment options. 
Mr G accepted the recommendation and again made clear he understood he was going 
against its recommendation that he shouldnt transfer his OPS funds.
I have some reservations about  the insistent client process followed, which  at face value 
appears robust. Thats because of what  Mr G has told us about its adviser initiating 
discussions with him about the EF proposal as early as 2012. Mr T was certainly involved in 
the advice process  from the outset. A file note from 8 January 2013 records  detailed 
discussions with the promoter and Mr G.
I think its more likely than not matters were initiated  and guided by Mr T throughout. I agree 
with the adjudicator when he noted  the series of connected activities  that led to the transfer, 
the establishment of the SIPP and the investment in EF shares.
From the outset when  the fact-find  and associated paperwork was completed  until execution  
of the purchase  of the shares and the consequent  release of tax-free funds from Mr Gs 
pension, I think Mr T was working to a plan. This weakens  Wealthmasters arguments  
around the insistent  client  process.
Ref: DRN759201810Nevertheless, Im mindful Mr G has told this Service  on more than one occasion that he 
didnt actually want to complain about the transfer  of his OPS. He understood that hed been  
advised against the transfer. And he says he wouldve gone ahead  with the transfer anyway, 
even without the EF proposal,  perhaps a little later.
Whether I think  Mr G was right in his judgement to transfer his OPS  is neither here nor there.  
He says he understood what  he was getting into for this aspect of the transaction.  He 
thought it was a good  idea. And given his longstanding relationship  with Mr T, Ive concluded  
that its more likely than not hed have  proceeded irrespective  of the advice given.
In August  2013,  taking into account  Mr Gs objectives and circumstances, Wealthmasters 
recommended that he invest  his SIPP  funds  with EF. So, it was subject to the requirement  
under COBS to provide suitable advice. I dont think the investment was suitable  it was too 
high-risk.
Ive reviewed the assessment Wealthmasters undertook for Mr G which found him to have 
an adventurous attitude to risk. The FCA has made numerous comments over the years,  
including in guidance issued in March 2011  for assessing suitability, about how firms  
shouldnt rely solely  on risk profiling tools to establish their clients attitude  to risk.
The FCA said firms  should have a robust  process  for assessing the risk a customer is willing 
and able to take, which  includes assessing  their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting  
customer responses to questions and not attributing inappropriate  weight  to certain  answers; 
and ensuring that tools are fit for purpose with any limitations recognised  and mitigated.
Im not satisfied that Wealthmasters did enough  to probe Mr Gs capacity for loss. For 
example, the fact-find states his pension was an insignificant part of his overall  financial 
wealth. This was wrong, even if I was to accept  that it believed  he had £185,000 available   
the supposed gift from his mother-in-law and the sale of his classic car - the final salary  
pension benefits  hed accrued after nearly 11 years of service with his former employer were  
worth at least a third of the appropriate measure  of his available wealth.
Further, from the information available, Mr Gs CIS OPS was the only pension provision he 
had. Its purpose was to provide him with an income  in retirement. No information about  his 
household finances were  collected, so its impossible to gauge what  other  assets or liabilities 
mayve been relevant  in considering his retirement plans. But we know  he had a wife and 
dependent child, so matters such as the death  benefits associated with his OPS were  not 
inconsequential.
The EF share purchase was an investment in a single unlisted company that produced bio 
fuels. It was a newly formed company, which didnt have any track  record of generating 
profit. I think it was a highly speculative proposal.  And I dont think  this met with Mr Gs 
capacity for loss at the time.
Wealthmasters advice  to purchase the EF shares meant  Mr Gs entire fund was invested in 
a single company  within  a single asset class with no diversification. I think its more likely 
than not it knew  he would  be pushing the investment  through  his SIPP. Investing his entire 
pension in such a high-risk strategy was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN759201811Wealthmasters have  pointed to the fact that Mr G had experience  in the financial services 
sector and so wouldve  known  what he was getting  into. I recognise the point it makes,  but 
Id note he wasnt an adviser and seems  to have been an agent selling and servicing basic 
life assurance and pension products. He left the industry in 2000 and since  then there have 
been major  changes in regulation and services.
Ive seen nothing  from the evidence Ive been  provided that Mr G had expertise in the 
transfer of defined benefit pensions or SIPPs. Ive seen nothing  which  shows  he was an 
experienced or sophisticated investor.  He was paying Wealthmasters for these services. And 
Ive concluded  it failed to deliver these with due care, skill and diligence.
The transfer of Mr Gs entire pension provision of around £104,000 to a James Hay SIPP, 
together with Wealthmasters  investment  advice,  led him to release £95,000 from his 
retirement provisions without paying  any tax. He paid about £15,770 to make  the initial 
investment in EF shares. And in the event of the investment failing he was told that because 
of the limited recourse  loan arrangement  hed have no further liability.
Mr G has told us the capped downside and what he thought was a significant potential  
upside of the EF proposal was a key factor in attracting him to the investment. But I agree 
with the investigator  who found there  didnt  appear to have been any requirement for him to 
repay the loan.  So, I think  the EF proposal  was always likely to have been viewed as a 
pension liberation  scheme. And I dont think its a surprise that HMRC scrutinised the 
arrangement and decided to levy unauthorised  payment charges.
In its August  2013  advice to Mr G, Wealthmasters did highlight 19 risks it wanted to draw  his 
attention to in the form of a bullet  point list. Included were the following:
The tax status of the scheme  could  change and is not guaranteed.  Your  loan facility could 
be challenged by the HMRC. The share valuation could be challenged by the HMRC.
A more fulsome description of the risk could be found on page 5 of the promoters brochure 
(bolding is my emphasis):
Following a period  of consultation  and subsequent  legislation in Part 5 of the Finance Bill 
2013. it is expected that a General Anti Abuse Rule, ("GAAR)  will be part of UK 
legislation with effect from Royal Assent to the Bill expected in early August 2013. 
This legislation  will permit  [HMRC] to counteract the tax consequences  of certain structures 
that have been deemed  as being contrary  to the GAAR principleswhere, in the opinion  of 
HMRC and the GAAR  Advisory  Panel, there has been aggressive avoidance of tax which  is 
contrary to Government  policy,  action can be taken. The legislation  in this area is laid out in 
the form of guidance supported by examples. Whilst extensive, it is not free from 
interpretation or always clear. Future  Capital Partners are not tax advisers  and as such  are 
not able to offer any opinion or commentary  upon  whether this particular proposal IS likely  to 
be affected by the GAAR  provisions and if so, what counteraction might be considered . It is 
recommended that appropriate legal advice is taken as to the possible effects  of the 
GAAR on this proposal .
Ref: DRN759201812On 20th May 2013, HM Revenue and Customs issued a Consultation Document entitled 
Partnerships- A review of two aspects  of the tax rules. This document  identifies what  HMRC 
considers to be two situations that lead to loss of tax revenues and which  in their opinion 
require remedial action.  Those areas are firstly  the disguising  of employment relationships 
as partnership arrangements  and secondly,  the allocation of profits and losses  in ways  that 
seek a tax advantagewith  legislation being proposed  to be effective from 6th April 
2014. The applications of the proposed  rules  are very uncertain at this stage and are 
expected to be made clearer  as a result of the Consultation processUntil this legislation  
has been seen  and analysed, it is not possible to state,  with any certainty, how these 
proposals may impact this opportunity
Wealthmasters didnt  understand the risks involved in this transaction,  yet it advised Mr G to 
proceed. It hasnt done enough  to show me that it explored with him all the issues  
associated with the EF investment, nor the immediacy, likelihood  and potential  impact of the 
risks for him in his circumstances.
It follows that Im not satisfied Wealthmasters acted in Mr Gs best interests. Had it done  so I 
dont think it wouldve recommended the investment and had it advised him accordingly I 
dont think hed have  ended up proceeding with the EF proposal given the substantial 
potential tax implications.  
Putting things  right
I now require Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd to pay Mr G redress. It will need  to 
put him as close as reasonably possible into the position hed be in if hed been given 
suitable advice.  This wont be perfect given the complications in this case.  And there are 
several factors that need to be borne in mind. 
Firstly, Im aware  that several months  after transferring his pension  fund Mr G separated and 
then divorced from his wife. So, in relation to any redress payable,  I must  make clear that 
any obligations he has in relation to the divorce  settlement and any entitlements  his former 
partner had or may have will need to be considered. Hell need to take legal advice on this. 
We know Mr G had use of the bulk of his retirement  funds soon after the transfer.  So, hes 
benefitted from earlier access to his pot than he shouldve. Its also the case  that his pension 
benefits wouldve  normally incurred some  tax liability, which needs to be taken into account.
Ive concluded  Mr G wouldve transferred his OPS  benefits into a SIPP  in any event. While 
its not possible to say precisely what  investments  he wouldve made, I think a fair proxy 
benchmark, given  his circumstances and objectives,  would  be the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Growth total return index.  That said,  the way this index should be used in the redress 
calculation isnt straight-forward because he utilised most of the funds he received.
I also need to take into account  that Mr G effectively added his own funds into the 
transaction following the loan and payback  arrangement he had with Wealthmasters 
adviser. Conversely,  he withdrew small sums from his SIPP  account prior to its closure in 
2016. 
Mr G made  a payment  on account in respect  of the tax, penalty and interest demand he 
received from HMRC in December 2018.  He did so to mitigate further interest  and charges. 
However, following  my first provisional  decision he informed me that in May 2020 HMRC 
refunded him the payment. These  matters  need to be reflected in the approach to redress.  
Ref: DRN759201813The additional tax liability Mr G faces  - over and above what  he would normally  incur  when 
taking benefits  from his pension pot - is uncertain. HMRCs position is subject to challenge, 
and in theory this could  result in the unauthorised  payment charges against Mr G being 
withdrawn or modified.  Clearly, if HMRC loses any challenge to its current approach and/or 
alters its position, then this will change any compensation  hes due from Wealthmasters.
HMRC hasnt required Mr G to make a tax payment yet (not even in respect of what might 
be considered  his normal liability). Its stance  on the EF scheme is being challenged by the 
investors, so it isnt surprising that its paused taking action to recover what  it considers tax 
due at present.  However, I dont think this means  it doesnt intend to charge him tax as a 
result of what it judges an unauthorised payment from his SIPP.  
I say this because  theres  already sufficient evidence to demonstrate  HMRC does see what  
happened it that way. Its previously  expressed  view is that the EF shares may have had no 
value when they were  sold.  And this is what led to Mr G receiving an unauthorised payment 
demand a few years ago. Mr G has a genuine  expectation that HMRC will levy a significant  
tax demand on him when  its investigation has concluded. So, I think  this should reasonably 
be factored into the redress  calculation now. 
Undertakings between Wealthmasters and Mr G.
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd will need  to provide an undertaking to pay (if 
necessary) the evidenced total additional tax, charges  and interest required of Mr G by 
HMRC as a result of the EF transaction, after it has concluded its investigation. That is, the 
amount beyond what his normal tax liabilities wouldve been had he accessed the benefits 
from his pension pot without such breach.
Mr G may receive a further notice of assessment from HMRC asking him to pay an 
amount on account  before  its investigations  conclude. If that happens, he should 
provide evidence of this to Wealthmasters, which should then pay to Mr G or HMRC the 
additional tax hes been asked to pay that would be above his normal  liability.  If the 
amount is paid to Mr G he should  undertake  to pay it to HMRC.
If an amount is paid on account Mr G should provide Wealthmasters with an 
undertaking to pay to it any amount  of refund he receives, following the conclusion  of 
HMRCs investigations, in the event it concludes less tax is due than what  was paid on 
account, insofar as it relates any additional  tax liability. And Wealthmasters should 
undertake to pay Mr G or HMRC the appropriate  amount due in the event that following 
the conclusion  of its investigations,  it requires  he pays more  tax than he paid on 
account.
Wealthmasters will need to meet the cost of drawing  up these undertakings.
Compensate Mr G for the lost investment, and costs associated  with the LLP 
arrangement 
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd will also need to provide Mr G with the following 
redress:
 
Ref: DRN759201814A = Mr G invested £15,770 in the failed  EF project. As Ive concluded this was an unsuitable 
investment and his funds  shouldve been invested elsewhere according  to his risk 
appetite/capacity for loss, it should  refund this money.
B = It should also refund  the upfront fees Mr G paid for entering into the LLP arrangement.  
C = I understand  Mr Gs SIPP was closed  in 2016  and there was no value in it when this 
happened. Wealthmasters will want to consider the value of any EF shares  retained  by Mr G 
in personal ownership  or any interest he may still hold in the LLP. It seems likely both will 
have a nil value  but if there is a realisable  value it can offset this against the sums at A and 
B. 
D = Wealthmasters  should increase the value  of the sum produced  from A+B-C, from the 
date Mr G repaid his loan to Mr T and paid the LLP costs respectively, until it settles, by 
reference to the FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth total return  index (reduced to account for 
Mr Gs marginal rate of tax).
The sum calculated  is payable within 28 days of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision. 
Wealthmasters will need to provide details of its calculations to him in a clear  and simple 
format. 
Mr G should be aware  that if he accepts  my decision, it could affect his legal rights  should 
any future liabilities arise  in respect  of the limited recourse  loan he used to purchase  the 
shares.
Finally, Wealthmasters  should pay Mr G £200 for the trouble caused to him and the worry of 
having HMRC involved  with the scrutiny  of his pension.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. I now require 
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd to put things right by providing for the 
undertakings and compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2021.
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7592018