K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995 when  they applied for a joint loan.
background
Mr and Mrs W complained to this Service. They said they had been  mis-sold PPI by 
Company S in 1995 at their home  address. They said Company  S sold the loan and PPI on 
behalf of the lender  which is now part of the HSBC banking group. They produced some 
case law to show Company S should be deemed to be HSBCs agent when it mis-sold them 
the PPI. So they conclude  HSBC  is responsible  for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint 
through Company Ss insurance selling actions.
HSBC explained  that its records showed  Mr and Mrs W bought the loan and the PPI through  
a double glazing company  I will call it Company  S. HSBC  said Company S was not its 
insurance selling agent and so it was not responsible  for looking at the PPI sale. So HSBC 
concluded it had nothing to do with the PPI sale through  the actions of the lender at the time 
or Company S. 
We investigated the matter and our adjudicator said HSBC  was not responsible  for the PPI 
sale; he also looked at other avenues of complaint for Mr and Mrs W but confirmed we could 
not take this matter any further against  HSBC.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. I issued  my provisional decision  in January 2019 where I explained  why I thought  
HSBC was not responsible for looking at this mis-sale complaint for Mr and Mrs W. We sent 
a copy of my provisional decision  to all parties  and invited them to make  any further 
comments. HSBC had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs W referred me again to the case  of 
Scotland v British  Credit  Trust (2014) which they said had exactly the same facts  as their 
case and so Company  S should  be deemed to be HSBCs agent.
I would like to assure  Mr and Mrs W that I looked through  the case  of Scotland v British  
Credit Trust very carefully before  I issued  my provisional decision;  I explained I did not think  
it changed my decision. This is because the case law can be distinguished as the PPI sale 
occurred after the Insurance Conduct  of Business (ICOB) Rules  were  introduced  in 2005 
and the Judge in that case looked at the unfair relationship which occurred when applying 
those rules. In this case, the PPI sale occurred  before the ICOB rules were  created, so the 
facts in both cases  are not identical.  As a result, I do not think Mr and Mrs W have produced 
any new evidence for me to consider  so I see no reason to change the conclusions  I made  in 
my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ref: DRN71806622The first thing I need to decide is whether HSBC is responsible for the sale of the policy  
through Company Ss actions. If I decide it is, then I can decide whether  the sale happened 
as it shouldve done. However, if I dont think HSBC was responsible for the sale of the 
policy to Mr and Mrs W, then Im not able to say that HSBC  did anything  wrong  or that it 
needs to put anything right.
In this case, I will be saying that HSBC is not responsible for looking at this PPI complaint. I 
know this is a disappointing result for Mr and Mrs W so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Mr and Mrs W say about  how the policy  
was sold to them in 1995. They recall the sale was conducted at their home by Company S 
who they say was acting on behalf  of HSBC. 
I have seen the loan application form which shows the option for PPI has been  ticked  next to 
the sentence:  Please  tick the box if you REQUIRE credit protection  insurance. So it is 
reasonable to assume the decision to buy the PPI was taken at the same time as applying 
for the loan when  Company S attended  Mr and Mrs W at home. The Company S 
representative has completed a loan application  but there is no evidence I have seen which  
shows Company S was acting on behalf of HSBC. In turn, HSBC  confirmed it was not part of 
the PPI selling process because it said Company S was not its insurance selling agent for 
PPI. It follows  that HSBC is probably not responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale 
complaint.
So I agree with our adjudicators and HSBCs conclusions. I agree that Company S was 
probably not an insurance selling agent for HSBC. So I conclude that HSBC is not 
responsible for the PPI sale. I have looked  at all relevant case law, but it does not change  
my decision.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely that HSBC was involved in selling this 
policy. It follows it also wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly. So Im not going  
to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint  against HSBC. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180662