K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (when it was trading as Britannia Building 
Society) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2005, Mr L took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. The policy covered Mr L in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Britannia Building Society is part of The Co-operative Bank. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Co-op bank in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold Mr Ls complaint.  Mr L disagreed. Mr L mainly 
says that Co-op  bank  mis-sold him PPI as he was able to rely on other  means to cover  his 
mortgage monthly repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. 
I think Co-op bank made Mr L aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose  to have it 
alongside the mortgage. I say this because the mortgage application Mr L completed offered 
him the option  to have PPI. Mr L indicated  that PPI was not required. So, I think he 
understood at the time that PPI wasnt compulsory with his mortgage - even  if he later forgot 
this. 
It looks like Mr L then changed  his mind about  having PPI as he completed a separate PPI 
application to take out this insurance. He answered questions to check  he was eligible for 
the policy and he selected the amount of cover required for his mortgage monthly 
repayments. Mr L declined the option  to buy additional cover. So it looks like Mr L chose the 
cover he wanted to have  and the policy was added to his account at his request. 
Co-op bank recommended the policy. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it 
doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. I think PPI was suitable  
looking at Mr Ls circumstances at the time. 
Mr L told us that he was entitled to at least 6 months full sick pay. But the policy couldve 
paid out in the event  of a successful disability claim for up to 12 months  per claim  on top of 
Mr Ls sick pay from work. Bearing in mind  that Mr L mightve had extra costs if he was off 
work as a result of illness  or disability,  I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time for him. 
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr L lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. Repeat claims were possible giving Mr L long term 
protection for his mortgage.  
Ref: DRN70310942Ive taken into account everything that Mr L has told us. Relying on family to help out in the 
event of money problems  isnt as dependable  as taking  out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. I cant assume that other people would always be 
in a position to pay his mortgage if he couldnt.  PPI provided Mr L with dependable 
protection whilst  he was paying for his home. 
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr L.   
Mr L was eligible for the policy. Mr L wasnt affected  by any of the usual  conditions  that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned, I dont think 
that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr Ls decision to take it out. 
The policy was free for the first 6 months. Co-op  bank says it wrote to Mr L confirming what 
the monthly premiums  would be at the end of the free period. Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
the policy was unaffordable for him. And as Mr L had set up payment arrangements at his 
bank to make the monthly payments, he seems to have been happy  to pay for the policy at 
the time.
Its possible some of the information  Co-op  bank gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  His mortgage was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a long 
period of time. Mr Ls home  wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up 
to date. So, I can see why he mightve  felt PPI was useful. And, even if Co-op bank didn't do 
everything it shouldve  done when it sold this policy to Mr L, I dont  think  its likely that better 
information wouldve  put him off buying it.
my decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7031094