K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited refused to renew  their 
telematics motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr H1 is the policy holder  and Mr H2 is his father, representative and a named driver on the 
policy.
They are unhappy  that Admiral  wouldnt  renew  the policy. They  say Admiral said the data 
collected by the telematics box over only ten months showed Mr H1 had exceeded his 
anticipated mileage  and shown him to be in the bottom 5% of drivers. Theyre unhappy 
about this as when contacted by Admiral  about  the mileage they paid an additional premium 
to cover it. Mr H1 also works in contact  centre  which he declared  when taking out the policy  
and has to drive early and late in the day. It was also only in the last 60 days of the policy  
that Admiral contacted them by which time it was too late to change  his driving score.  They 
dont understand  how Mr H1 could be in the bottom  5% of drivers.  They  want  an apology  
and compensation.  They  say as a result of what has happened  he has had to pay an 
additional £400 to another insurer.
Admiral said Mr H1 scored worst  for his night  driving and he had also driven  at over 100 
mph. It also explained how it categorises  journeys. It said it had explained it does its utmost  
to ensure data is a true reflection of the risk its customer poses. And the policy says if your 
overall driving score is in the bottom  5% of customers it will advise  that improvement is 
needed. But there may be circumstances where  there are less than 30 days left on the policy 
to improve things. It had explained what to do to get a better renewal quote. It had acted 
fairly on the information it had and declined a renewal.  Thats a matter  of it exercising its 
commercial judgement.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said in summary:
Under the terms of the policy Admiral can cancel the policy  if a driver  is in the bottom  
5% of drivers  after a period of any 60 days and they cant  then improve their score in 
30 days. The policy lists the factors affecting and impacting on driving scores.  And 
Admiral would give feedback on how to improve scores.
Mr H1s driving score was affected  by his working hours and his exceeding the speed  
limit on a number of occasions. Admiral has indicted  Mr H1 fell into the bottom 5% of 
drivers in the last 30 days of his policy and so he wouldnt  have had enough  time left 
to improve his score. So, it decided not to renew  the policy.
Admiral has provided information  on how it assessed which  drivers were  in the 
bottom 5% and how it classified night  driving. This information suggests  Mr H1 was in 
the bottom 5% of drivers. Admiral didnt  cancel the policy  which  wouldve had a 
negative effect  on Mr H1. Instead it didnt offer to renew it. It acted reasonably and 
gave Mr H1 reasonable notice that it wouldnt renew the policy.  
Admiral has acted  in line with the policy terms and conditions  and hasnt acted 
unreasonably or unfairly.
Ref: DRN78472912Mr H1 and Mr H2 remain unhappy and have asked for an ombudsman review. They say they 
dont understand  how Mr H1 was in the bottom  5% based of drivers based on one months 
driving on a ten month policy. They say the way hes been treated is unfair and unjustified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H2 has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Admiral has explained  how it uses the data from the telematics box to score driving. It says it 
takes account of a number of factors when doing  so.
In Mr H1s case  it says his driving score was in the top 60% of customers when it had 
reached 60 days of data. And his first renewal  score was among the top 45% of drivers 
renewing when  he did. But his driving score  had fallen into the bottom 5% by the second  
policy renewal. It says his score at that time had apparently  been  adversely affected 
because he drove  a lot at night and as hed been recorded exceeding 100mph on number of 
occasions.
As a result Admiral wrote to tell Mr H1 that it wouldnt be offering to renew his policy.  I 
understand this wouldve been  a disappointment to Mr H1 but Admiral  is, as it says, entitled  
to set its underwriting criteria and to use them to assess  who it wants  as a customer. That is 
an example of it exercising its commercial  discretion  and is something we wouldnt interfere 
in.
Mr H2 has pointed out that Admiral  hasnt followed the terms and conditions  of the policy  
which say it will cancel it if the policyholder is in the bottom 5% of drivers.  But as Mr H1s 
driving score deteriorated only in the last 30 days of the policy  and he was in the bottom 5% 
of drivers at that point, Admiral made the decision not to renew it. That was fair and 
reasonable. And he didnt have enough time to improve his driving score before the policy 
renewal date.
As the investigator  has pointed Admiral deciding not to renew the policy is more favourable 
for Mr H1 than having a policy  cancellation on his record. And in any event he didnt have 
enough time available in the remainder of the policy term to allow his score  to be improved 
or to trigger  the cancellation term.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly and I dont think I can 
reasonably ask it to pay Mr H1 any compensation as Mr H2 would like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 January  2020.
Ref: DRN78472913Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7847291