K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about how Europ  Assistance  S.A. dealt  with a claim against  his travel
insurance policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision,  an extract of which  
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont repeat that information  here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and 
what I thought  Europ Assistance should  do to put matters right. Both Mr B and Europ 
Assistance said that they accepted my provisional decision  and had nothing to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr B nor Europ Assistance has provided me with anything further, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached  in my provisional decision. So, I dont 
think that Europ  Assistance  treated  Mr B fairly.  For the reasons I set out in my provisional  
decision, I uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part. 
To put matters right, in addition to what its already paid, Europ Assistance should  pay Mr B 
a sum in relation to curtailment for one adult  and one child for 30 June 2018 and 1 July 2018 
and compensation  of £500 in relation to distress  and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. In addition to the compensation 
Europ Assistance S.A. has already paid, I now direct  it to pay Mr B;
    curtailment for one adult and one child for 30 June 2018 and 1 July 2018;
    compensation of £500  in relation to distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76652862extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complains about  how Europ Assistance S.A. dealt with a claim against his travel insurance 
policy.
background
In March  2018, Mr B bought a travel  insurance  policy for a European  holiday with his family: his 
partner, Ms E; their four year old and their infant, J. The holiday was from 26 June 2018 to 10 July 
2018.
On 28 June 2018, J displayed mild symptoms of illness. On 29 June 2018, J was seen by a doctor in 
their hotel then admitted to hospital in relation to convulsions and possible epilepsy. J was discharged 
from hospital on 30 June  2018.
Mr B says that the hospital  advised that J should  be kept cool and away from noise, sunlight  or 
bright lights. An undated  medical report says that J should return  home  for more investigations in 
order to get a definitive diagnosis and said the treatment was rest and no exposure to sun or loud 
noises.
Mr B says that either he or Ms E cared for J in their hotel room after he was discharged from 
hospital. He says that J was seen in their hotel  by a doctor every day from 1 July 2018 to 5 July 2018 
and as an outpatient at the hospital on 2 July 2018.
I understand  that whilst the hospital doctor said J should return home, Europ Assistances  agent  
wanted J to have a scan to confirm his fitness to fly. There  were delays and on 5 July 2018, Mr B 
arranged flights home.
Mr B claimed against  the policy for taxi costs, the return flights,  a medical report  fee and the cost 
of the holiday. Mr B says that the family holiday was unable to proceed as one parent  cared  for J 
whilst the other  occupied their energetic four year old elsewhere.
Europ Assistance said that there was no cover for taxi fares between the hotel and hospital or the 
medical certificate from their GP. It paid the medical  expenses. It also paid Mr B £901.04,  which it 
said was made up as follows:
5 July 2018 taxi fare to airport £19.63
5 July 2018 flights £242.31
(less policy excess) (£65)
5 July 2018 to 10 
July 2018Curtailment for two 
adults, one child,  one 
infant£964.10
(less policy excess x4) (£260)
Mr B says that on 30 June 2018,  medical  staff told them to return home. That advice was repeated 
by the paediatrician on 2 July 2018. He says that Europ Assistances agent  delayed their departure 
so he arranged flights on 5 July 2018.  Mr B wants  compensation in line with his claim.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Europ Assistance paid him an additional £289.23  as a gesture 
of goodwill, which it said was for three additional nights of unused holiday
 2, 3 and 4 July - for two people.
Ref: DRN76652863One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said Europ Assistance should  
recalculate the curtailment claim  in line with the holiday  dates  for all four beneficiaries under  the 
policy, taking into account any payment it had already  made. The investigator also said that Europ 
Assistance should pay Mr B compensation of £400 in relation to distress  and inconvenience.
Mr B agreed with the investigators view. Europ Assistance didnt agree. It said that it would be 
willing to pay compensation of £500 for poor service  but didnt agree  to any additional payment for 
curtailment.
There were  further exchanges of correspondence  and Europ Assistance said it was willing  to pay 
additional curtailment for one parent and J from 30 June 2018, plus compensation  of
£400. It wasnt willing to pay an additional amount for curtailment in relation to the other two 
members of the family.
Europ Assistance said that the policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment,  confinement to the hotel 
room or hospital stay. It said that it was reasonable to pay curtailment for one parent  and J from 
the date they were advised  to return home.
As there was no agreement between the parties the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious  that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt  was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. No discourtesy is intended by that; its a reflection of the informal service  we provide.  
But Im satisfied that Ive captured  the essence of what happened.
Europ Assistance is right to say that the policy doesnt provide cover for taxi costs from the hotel to 
the hospital or the GP report fee. Its also right to say that the policy doesnt cover loss of 
enjoyment.
In relation to Mr Bs claim for curtailment, the starting point is the terms and conditions  of the policy, 
which provides:
CANCELLATION AND CURTAILMENT
What you are covered  for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary  of cover for the unused portion of your 
travel and accommodation costs that you have paid [] and you suffer  a financial loss because  you 
cannot get a full refund  if you [] cut your trip short and return home  early  during the period of 
insurance because  of the following:
1.  [] illness [] of you, a close relative or any person you have arranged  to travel or 
stay with during your trip
In the policy definitions, curtailment  is defined as:
Curtail/Curtailment : Return early to your home after the commencement of the outward  
journey.
Mr B and his family returned  home  on 5 July 2018, So under the definition  of curtailment in the 
policy, its right that Europ Assistance pay Mr Bs claim for curtailment  for four people from 5 July 
2018 to 10 July 2018, which it has done. But I dont  think  thats sufficient here or that it leads  to a fair 
outcome. Thats because the holiday was effectively curtailed  for J and one parent  from 30 June  
Ref: DRN766528642018, which was the date on which I understand medical  advice to Mr B was that J should  rest, 
avoid exposure to sun or loud noises and return home.
Europ Assistance has already paid for curtailment  for one parent and J for
2, 3 and 4 July 2018 and has now offered to do so from the date J was advised to return home  
30 June 2018. I think thats fair.
I dont think that Europ  Assistance is required to pay for curtailment for all four members of the 
family before  5 July 2018.  Whilst I appreciate that this was a worrying time, I dont think that the 
holiday was effectively curtailed for everyone from 30 June 2018.  Two family members  could 
continue to have the use and benefit of the accommodation and engage in holiday  activities until 
they left on 5 July 2018. Mr B said that the parent who wasnt  looking after J entertained their four 
year old elsewhere. Whilst I dont doubt  that the enjoyment of the holiday  was marred by Js illness, 
thats not something thats covered under  the policy.
Europ Assistance accepts that there was poor communication and that Mr B and Ms E were left 
without a plan to get home. The family  were vulnerable and in a worrying situation. They  should  have 
been able to rely on Europ  Assistance for clear guidance and a prompt plan to get home. But there 
was no clear plan, delays and poor communication.  I think fair compensation is £500.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. In addition to the 
compensation Europ Assistance S.A. has already paid, I intend to direct it to pay Mr B;
    curtailment for one adult and one child for 30 June 2018 and 1 July 2018;
    compensation of £500 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN7665286