K820x#14complaint
The complaint from the late Mrs S, Mrs M and Mrs B (the complainants) is about alleged 
mismanagement of the investment of trust assets by Whittaker Financial Solutions Limited 
(Whittaker). The relevant  trust (the trust) was set up in 1994, under a previous trustee(s), by 
Mrs S late husband/Mrs Ms and Mrs Bs late father.  The complainants  became trustees of 
the trust in 2013. The late Mrs S passed  away after submission  of the complaint. With 
respect, reference to the late Mrs S in the conclusion of this decision is to her estate. 
background
Mrs M and Mrs B presented a number of complaint issues to Whittaker  in 2018. In the main, 
they said:
Over  the life of the trust fund (23 years)  it achieved  growth  of around 32%, which  is 
below the rate of inflation over the same  period  and demonstrates a lack of attention 
by Whittaker, especially in the context of the Trustee Act 2000 (the Act). [issue  1]
Whittaker was obliged  to manage the fund in a manner that fairly balanced the 
interests of the life tenant (Mrs S) and the remaindermen (Mrs M and Mrs B). It failed 
to do this because  it managed  the fund in a manner  that heavily favoured the life 
tenant, to the detriment of the remaindermen. [issue  2]
Whittaker failed to review the fund on a regular basis over 13 years.  [issue 3]
Whittakers  proposal, around the time of the complaint, to review  the fund based on a 
fee of 3% of its value  was unreasonable in the circumstances.  [issue  4]
Whittakers initial  response was to say the complaint had not been properly made because it 
was in the name of only two of the three trustees  it considered that all three  trustees had to 
be party  to it. It also said it offered to meet the complainants (as trustees) many years ago 
but they never accepted  its offer, so there  has never been an agreement  between the parties 
for ongoing advice.  The matter was referred to this service. Whittaker responded further and 
provided information to address the following:
With regards to issue 1, it said performance of the fund over the relevant period is 
equivalent to 6% per year  taking into account income/capital withdrawals and 
charges  whilst  RPI inflation over the same period was around 2.7% per year.
With regards to issue 2, it said the initial investment advice was based  on the initial  
investment instructions from the original trustees   which  was to provide a balance 
between income  for Mrs S and growth  of the fund but to prioritise income for Mrs S.
With regards to issue 3, it said there  has been no trustee  meeting since 2007 and 
therefore there has been no trustee instruction to Whittaker  to alter the fund or to 
provide investment advice. The Act places  the duty upon the trustees  not Whittaker  
 to seek advice  and give instruction for such advice and they have not done  that.
With regards to issue 4, it said its agreement with the original trustees was that 
additional work  beyond  the initial advice  would be paid for. Despite that, it 
conducted work free of charge after 2007 to assist  in the trust fund during a period in 
which the trusteeship for the fund was absent/vacant and before the complainants  
became trustees  in 2013. Its offer, around the time of the complaint, to review the 
fund for a fee of 3% was reasonable in the circumstances and was in line with its 
standard charges.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  In the course of speaking  to Mrs S, in 
order to obtain  her consent  to the complaint, he noted two additional issues she expressed:
Ref: DRN71880892She was unhappy  with the decline in her income  from the fund. [issue 5]
She was unhappy  with the level of customer service from Whittaker in terms of 
missed payments in 2018 and rudeness from its staff over the telephone. [issue 6]
Whittaker argued that issue 5, where Mrs S says she did not receive enough income,  
conflicts with the complaint under  issue 2, where  Mrs M and Mrs B say Mrs S received too 
much income. It also clarified  that issue 6 relates  to a third party  firm which  administered  the 
trusts investments, that the complainants  already have a successful complaint against that 
firm in this respect and received redress from it.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. In the main:
He said issue 6 relates to a complaint  about  the third party  firm which  has been 
addressed by that firm, if the complainants which to pursue it further  they need to do 
so separately.
He broadly agreed with the points  made  by Whittaker in relation to other issues, with 
regards to the funds reflecting the instruction  it was given at the outset, the absence 
of a change to that instruction thereafter  (and the reasonableness of Whittaker not 
deviating from the initial instructions)  and the reasonableness of Whittaker  charging 
for a review of the fund in line with its standard charges and in the context of the 
unpaid work it had done.
Shortly after the investigator shared his view Mrs S passed away  and a representative for 
the complainants was appointed. Mrs M and the representative wrote separately to disagree 
with the investigators  conclusions.  In the main,  they said:
Issue 2 is the main  argument in the complaint.
There is legal authority in case law and in the Act confirming the trustees obligations 
towards the trust.  The same authority supports their assertion that the trustees 
obligations had been delegated to Whittaker, so Whittaker had a duty to discharge  
them  inclusive of the issues raised in the complaint,  especially issue 2  but had 
failed to do so.
Issue 6 has been  addressed by the third party but Whittaker wrongly  failed to notice 
the payment problem  and did not alert the complainants to it.
The rate of return on the trust fund was 4%, not 6% as Whittaker says.
Whittaker failed to discharge the standard  obligations upon a financial adviser  and it 
failed to apply  the correct  long term strategy at the outset of the trust fund.
All the issues raised contributed towards  the poor returns in the trust fund.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
With regards to issue 1, this service would  not normally consider a complaint  about 
investment performance  in isolation, so I have  not done that. If, as alleged,  there  are matters 
of unsuitability and/or mismanagement  that are supposed to have caused under 
performance, we can look into the alleged matters of unsuitability  and/or mismanagement   
Ref: DRN71880893which is what I have done below. I consider that this conclusion  also applies to issue  5, 
given that the alleged  decline in income was a matter that arose  from the funds 
performance. 
I consider that issue 6 is remote to Whittaker. It relates to a third party  firm and it is a 
complaint that appears to have been  presented to that firm and addressed  by that firm. As 
the investigator said, it is for the complainants to consider  whether  (or not) the matter has 
been resolved  and whether (or not) they wish to pursue it further. Whittaker is not 
responsible for the substance of the matter  and, given available  evidence (including 
evidence about  its notable effort in holding the third party firm accountable to the 
complainants and in complaining to that firm for the complainants),  I am not persuaded that it 
shares responsibility as alleged. 
Issues 2 and 3 essentially  seek to place  upon  Whittaker the obligations which  primarily and  
for reasons given  below   solely belonged to the trustees of the trust fund, including the 
complainants. Before addressing this further, I should note that I do not accept the 
suggestion that Whittakers advice  at the outset  of the trust fund was unsuitable and, in the 
absence of instructions  to it about  the management of the fund thereafter and in the absence  
of agreed management responsibilities to the extent that has been alleged,  I also do not 
consider that it mismanaged the fund.
There is limited  evidence  from the initial point of advice but I have seen the suitability related 
report and information  about the investments that were made. The former correctly  noted the 
potential for conflict between the need  for income  and the drive for growth.  It also noted the 
need for a long term strategy given that Mrs S had a life expectancy of over 25 years  at the 
time. It considered the option of guaranteed inflation  proof  investments  but was concerned  
that they provided insufficient income  at the time. It advised that the trust must accept a 
degree of risk regarding  future income and capital if the joint income and capital growth  
objectives were to be met. It recommended a high income unit trust, a guaranteed  income  
bond, two high income trusts and a Gilt and fixed interest trust. It did this in the context of 
giving priority to the need for income  for Mrs S  as it was instructed to do by the trustees at 
the time.
Given the above summary,  I do not consider that Whittakers advice for the trust fund was 
unsuitable. The complainants representative  appears to be an experienced finance  
professional and he might consider that better  recommendations could have been made. 
Even if that is the case  for the sake of clarity, I do not suggest that it is  Whittakers 
regulated duty was to give suitable advice, so the suggestion of a potentially  better  set of 
recommendations does not automatically make  its advice unsuitable.
I have not seen evidence that Whittaker had a discretionary management role with regards 
to the trust fund,  so I do not consider  that there  is a basis for the argument that it should 
have reviewed or changed  the contents  of or strategy for the fund in the absence of 
instructions to do so. No such instructions  were  given,  there  is no evidence to show 
otherwise and the complainants  do not appear to argue otherwise. Their  argument, as I 
noted above, is that the investment management related duties they had as trustees  were  
transferred over to Whittaker  so, on this basis, it was obliged  to conduct the reviews  and 
changes they assert.
Besides the lack of evidence of a discretionary  management  arrangement, there is also no 
evidence of any other type of arrangement between the parties in which  Whittaker  expressly 
undertook the roles  and responsibilities of the trustees.
Ref: DRN71880894In terms of legal  authority,  reference has been  made  to case law in order to illustrate  the 
responsibilities of investment management upon a trustee and then reference has been 
made to the Act to argue  that those responsibilities  passed to Whittaker. The latter point is 
the most  relevant and I do not consider that it has been established.
Part I of the Act addresses the duty of care owed to a trust  that duty of care is placed  upon 
the trustee(s). Part II of the Act addresses the general power of investment held by a 
trustee(s) in relation to trust assets   that too relates to the trustee(s). There  are provisions 
within Part II related to a trustee obtaining proper advice in the course of exercising the 
general power of investment  unless she/he reasonably concludes that it is unnecessary  or 
inappropriate to obtain such advice. These provisions  do not extend to passing  the trustees 
duty and responsibilities  over to the adviser.  
Part IV addresses agency arrangements and contains some provisions that allow  some  of 
the trustees duties/responsibilities to be passed to its agent.  However,  there is no evidence 
of such an agency  arrangement in this case and section 15 of the Act (under Part IV) says 
that, with specific regard to a trustees asset  management functions,  there  is a requirement 
for an agency agreement  evidenced in writing and for a written  guidance  (a policy  statement) 
from the trustee to the agent on how to exercise the functions. Neither appears to exist in 
this case.  
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the complainants responsibilities (as trustees) 
remained with them and were never  passed to Whittaker. With regards to issue  4, I agree 
with the investigator, Whittaker was entitled to propose its standard  fee for the task of 
reviewing the fund, given that the initial (and unchanged) arrangement with the trust appears 
to have been that any additional work  would be paid for.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complainants complaint. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the complainants  (from the late 
Mrs S, Mrs M and Mrs B) to accept or reject my decision  before 24 October 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188089