K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the success fee charged by We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) 
following successful payment protection insurance  (PPI)  claims they made on his behalf. 
background
Mr G instructed WFAC  to deal with PPI claims on his behalf in April 2018. The authority form 
included the terms  and conditions which explained that if Mr Gs claim was successful, 
WFAC would charge 39% plus VAT on any payment received. 
WFAC sent claims  to Lender C, Lender S, and Lender T.
On 9 July WFAC told Mr G that his claim against Lender C had been  successful.  On 10 July 
Mr G emailed WFAC saying I will accept  this claim with [Lender  C] but I ask you to CANCEL  
all other claims  you are working on, as I feel the 39% is rather high for just 4 letters  by post.
On 13 July the claim against Lender  S was successful. WFAC  sent Mr G an invoice for this 
claim. Mr G contacted WFAC to question why it had been sent as hed cancelled  their 
service. Mr G was told during one of the calls that that well remove that and you shouldnt  
get anything in the post anymore. On another call Mr G was told that cancellation costs may 
be payable for this claim. 
Mr G complained to WFAC about  the high costs charged for his successful claims, and also 
the success fee charge for the claim concerning Lender S as he thought  hed cancelled.  
WFAC rejected Mr Gs complaint saying that the charges applied were  in line with the terms 
and conditions Mr G agreed to at the time he instructed  them. Mr G was told both success  
fees were due. 
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claim Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.
During the investigation, WFAC advised the invoice regarding Lender S had been  waived. 
They said the invoice  regarding the claim with Lender C is still due, and the complaint 
against Lender T was still open. 
The investigator thought WFACs offer to waive the second success  fee regarding Lender S 
was fair. The investigator also recommended that the claim against Lender T is cancelled  at 
no cost to Mr G. WFAC didnt respond  to the investigators findings. Mr G accepted  the 
investigators findings overall, however  still wanted  an ombudsman  to look at his complaint 
as he didnt think the VAT charged  by WFAC for the claim against  Lender C was fair. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says hes unsure whether VAT needs to be paid to WFAC, and hes going  to contact 
HMRC to take this further. Ive seen that in previous emails Mr G has also commented  on 
WFACs tax position, and business structure. 
Ref: DRN71530102When investigating Mr Gs complaint, Ive seen that the terms and condition explained that 
the success fee payable would be 39%, inclusive of VAT, in the event of a successful claim. 
So I think its fair that WFAC charge this amount. Its not the role of this service to look at 
whether a business is paying the correct amount of VAT. HMRC sets the rules and 
standards for paying  VAT so would investigate VAT issues  if required.  
In respect of the claims on which WFACs  success fee should be applied, Ive looked at the 
date Mr G provided notice to cancel his agreements,  and the status of his claims at the time. 
When deciding whats fair, Ive also considered the policy  terms, and what  Mr G was told 
about his claims after he cancelled WFACs service.
WFAC say their invoice  for the claim concerning Lender C is payable. Ive seen that Mr G 
was advised about the offer received  for this claim before he cancelled  their service on 10 
July 2018. Mr G told WFAC that he accepted the work done on this claim.  So I think  its fair 
that this invoice remains payable as per the agreed  terms and conditions.  
WFAC have agreed to waive their success fee for the second claim concerning Lender S. Mr 
G cancelled all his claims on 10 July 2018.  The offer from Lender S was made on 13 July. I 
would have expected WFAC to have acknowledged  Mr Gs cancellation email of 10 July, 
and have sent a cancellation  invoice to Mr G for all of his outstanding claims. Instead WFAC 
provided conflicting information about the payment required for the claim concerning  Lender  
S, and kept the claim against Lender T open. 
Its fair to say that following Mr Gs email  of 10 July, the relationship  between  WFAC  and Mr 
G broke  down. I think this was made worse by the conflicting information  provided about the 
money owed in respect of Lender  S. Because of this, I think the offer to waive  the success  
fee for the claim against  Lender S is fair. I also agree with the investigators findings  that the 
open claim against Lender  T should be cancelled  at no cost to Mr G.
I wont be asking WFAC to charge cancellation fees for any of the outstanding claims 
because I think they had the opportunity to do this, but didnt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
The invoice regarding Lender C remains payable for the reasons explained. We Fight  Any 
Claim Limited should waive the invoice for the claim concerning Lender S. As the 
relationship between the parties has broken down We Fight Any Claim Limited should also 
terminate any existing  agreement with Mr G for his claim concerning Lender T at no cost to 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7153010