K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Esure  Services  Limited (ESL) has illegally charged him a mid-term 
additional premium  for his home  insurance  policy after he pursued a claim. 
background
Mr N suffered a water  leak in his bathroom in February 2018. He called ESL to ask about 
how to make a claim for the damage  caused. ESL advised him to get the leak fixed  and to 
call back when he knew what the extent  of the damage was. 
The policy renewed  on 25 January 2019.  On 14 March 2019, Mr N called ESL to proceed 
with the claim for the damage caused  thirteen months previously. ESL accepted the claim 
and paid Mr N a cash settlement. A couple of days after he notified ESL that he wanted to 
pursue the claim  however, it wrote  to him to say that it was revising  his 2019/2020 premium  
back to the renewal date to take account  of the fact that the claim had occurred prior to 
renewal terms  being  offered.  ESL said Mr N would need to pay it an additional  premium  (AP) 
for the policy year which came to £121.53.
Mr N paid the AP and complained to ESL. ESL looked into the complaint  and said that the 
premium offered in January 2019 was based on no claims being made. It said that because 
the claim had occurred before the renewal  date underwriters wanted to revise the premium 
to reflect  that a claim had arisen in the previous  policy  year. ESL said that it didnt want  to 
lose Mr Ns custom,  but if he wanted to cancel his policy  it understood his reasons for doing 
so. It offered  to waive the associated cancellation fee. 
Unhappy with the outcome of ESLs investigation,  Mr N complained to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  Mr N 
disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he was questioning the legality of 
amending the premium  under contract  law because he was offered terms by ESL and, in 
accepting, had entered into a binding legal  contract for it to provide a service. Mr N asked for 
his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment it will 
cause Mr N, I dont think his complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Insurers each have  their own view about  the risks they are being asked to take on and how 
much they need  to charge  to do so. There are a variety  of factors insurers  take into account 
when calculating risk. These include factors directly related to a customer  like claims 
history  and factors  that arent directly related to an individual  - like the number of claims in 
the area a customer lives in. Insurers constantly  review these factors and they can lead to 
increases or decreases in the premiums they charge. How they gather, analyse, assess and 
apply this information is up to each insurer. 
A claim  is a risk factor  underwriters will want to take into account when deciding what 
premium to charge.  When that claim arises is another factor  that impacts the calculation  of 
an annual premium. I note that Mr N has said he appreciates the rationale  for the charging of 
his AP but disputes the legality (in contract  law) of ESL being  able to do so. 
Ref: DRN72042142By his own admittance, other aspects of life got in the way of Mr N calling ESL back  and 
notifying it that he wished to proceed with his escape of water  claim. Consequently, renewal 
came and went before he did so. But ESL has shown us that, if it the claim had been 
pursued during  the policy year in which it arose, then the renewal price it wouldve offered in 
January 2019  wouldve reflected this. So Im satisfied that the claim that caused  the AP to be 
charged was fundamental to the nature of the cover  ESL was offering. That in charging it, it 
reflected the price  to cover the risk Mr N actually presented.
ESL has said it accepts  it knew Mr N had notified it that he would be making  a claim. But it 
said factoring a potential claim  into his renewal premium wouldnt have been  fair. I think  
thats a reasonable approach for ESL to take.  It wouldnt  have known,  when calculating  the 
renewal price, whether  Mr N would ever have called back  to pursue a claim. It could well 
have been the case that he decided it wasnt financially worth pursuing a claim. So I think  it 
was fair that ESL didnt take the (possible) claim into account when offering renewal.
 
Mr N has said he thinks ESL has illegally  amended the contract between them. He said he 
wants an ombudsman to advise whether  ESLs actions are legal  in contract  law. Im afraid  
thats not the role of this service. We are here as an informal dispute resolution  service. We 
look at the evidence provided  by both parties and reach a fair and reasonable outcome to 
the complaints  that are brought to us. Whilst this service has regard to the position  in English 
law, we dont provide  legal opinions. Its my role here to decide  whether ESL has treated 
Mr N fairly  and reasonably in all the circumstances of his complaint and I have to say that I 
think it has. 
We expect insurers, when  dealing  with a mid-term policy adjustment,  only to re-rate  mid-
term on the factors that have changed. In this case,  thats the notification  of the claim. 
Everything else should remain the same. When a factor  changes  mid-term, we dont think  its 
fair for an insurer to use it as an opportunity to review all of the factors and re-rate the entire 
policy. 
ESL has shown  us that its only re-rated  Mr Ns policy on the factor  that related to him 
making the claim. I can see that ESL calculated the AP it charged Mr N fairly  and in line with 
the way it would do for any of its other  customers with similar circumstances. So I dont think  
ESL has unreasonably charged  Mr N an AP of £121.53.
And I can see that ESL offered  Mr N the opportunity to cancel  his policy,  only charge him for 
the time he was on risk and that it would waive its cancellation fee. I think  thats fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204214