K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society (YBS) mis- 
sold them  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage sometime  
between 1995  and 1998. Mr and Mrs L applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. YBS accepted the adjudicators opinion and made an 
offer, but Mr and Mrs Ls claims management  company (CMC) requested at least  £500  
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset it said was caused by YBS initially  saying it 
couldnt find any record of the mortgage and MPPI. It was several months later,  after a data 
subject access request was made, that YBS accepted Mr and Mrs L had MPPI.
YBS has records  showing MPPI  payments from 1998 to 2001, but has no records  from the 
time of sale. It says it doesnt know when the mortgage and MPPI started.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I was intending to uphold the complaint, but that I 
wasnt planning to award compensation on top of the usual refund of premiums plus interest. 
Mr and Mrs L have provided  more comments about what happened  when  they made the 
complaint and the impact this had on them. I also obtained additional  information  from YBS 
about what happened. And Ive since told YBS and Mr and Mrs L that I intend to add 
compensation of £100 to the award  I set out in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint.  
What date was the MPPI  sold?
Mr and Mrs L think the MPPI was sold in 1995.  But theyve not provided anything that makes 
me think that was the case. And Ive looked at the Land Registry  records  for the address 
where they were  living at that time. This shows a registered charge in favour  of Chelsea 
Building Society dated 25 July 1996.  So I think this is likely to be the date the YBS mortgage 
started.
In light of this, I think its most likely that the MPPI  was sold around 25 July 1996,  as it 
appears that this is when  Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  with YBS started. And theres  nothing  to 
suggest the MPPI was sold separately  to the mortgage or at a later date.
Was the MPPI  mis-sold?
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think YBS gave
Mr and Mrs L clear  enough information about the policy. I say this because the MPPI 
excluded claims for any existing defect or chronic or recurring disease, sickness,  bodily 
Ref: DRN70524312injury or other condition  for which the Insured Mortgagor  was aware on the date of signing 
the application or has suffered in the 12 months  immediately  preceding  the Commencement 
Date of the insurance.
I think this wouldve  mattered to Mr and Mrs L because Mrs L had a medical  condition  for 
which she was having check-ups every  six months. I dont think  Mr and Mrs L wouldve 
bought the policy if YBS had given them enough information about  it. So, I think
Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of what YBS did wrong.
Ive also decided to award £100  compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
and Mrs L by YBS failing to progress their complaint when it was first contacted. From the 
information YBS has provided, it appears it was given enough information to locate the 
account on that first contact, and was at fault for not doing so. So the delay that followed was 
unnecessary. And given  the effect  this had on Mr and Mrs L, in terms of added 
inconvenience and frustration, I think additional  compensation  is appropriate. 
what the business should  do to put things right
YBS should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out MPPI. 
YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy, YBS can take off what  
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
Pay Mr and Mrs L additional compensation of £100. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must  give
Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Yorkshire 
Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052431