K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd (WFS). He has concerns about the 
basis on which his annuity policy was set up. 
background
In July 1989 Mr R took out a WFS Protected  Rights Personal Pension. Mr R received no 
advice from WFS. He arranged the pension himself and received commission for the 
transaction. 
In April 2006 WFS wrote to Mr R and provided him with information  about his Protected  
Rights Pension. Mr R was invited to complete  WFS Pension Option Benefit Statement form 
so he could take retirement benefits.
Mr R completed  WFS form and selected  the following  annuity  option:
2. Reduced  level pension payable monthly  in arrears guaranteed  for a minimum 5 years 
with a tax free cash sum:
Pension £1,424.88 p.a.
Cash £10,085.87
Mr Rs annuity was later set up.
In September  2018 Mr R contacted WFS and complained  about  his annuity. He wasnt 
happy his annuity included a 50% spouses  pension and said he this wasnt something he 
could gain any benefit from.
WFS sent its final response to Mr Rs complaint and in summary  said:
legislation applicable  to Mr Rs Protected  Rights Pension required benefits  to be 
taken in a prescribed  manner
a Protected Rights  Pension had to include a 50% spouses pension, meaning  that 
when the plan holder died, half their annuity  would  continue  to be paid to their 
surviving spouse. It wasnt possible for the plan holder  to opt out of this requirement
it had set up Mr Rs annuity  on the basis it was obligated to
Unhappy with WFS response, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said she didnt think  WFS  had done 
anything wrong. She referred to the fact Mr R was previously employed by WFS and had 
arranged his Protected Rights Pension himself.  Based on this she felt it was reasonable to 
expect that Mr R understood the nature of his pension and therefore the basis of his annuity.  
She said Mr R shouldve  been aware his annuity from his Protected  Rights  Pension had to 
include a 50% spouse  annuity,  and that he should have understood what the term spouse 
meant.
Mr R disagreed with our investigator and in summary said:
there was nothing to be gained financially by putting his partners details down as his 
spouse on his annuity application form
Ref: DRN75554322WFS shouldve queried  the fact that his partners surname was different to his at the 
time he took out his annuity. And that it shouldve  noted  his partner was 15 years 
older than him
it wasnt fair his pension was being reduced  for a benefit hed never receive
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
I should firstly say that I have genuine sympathy  for Mr R. I can appreciate  how disappointed 
he must be to discover that the spouses pension benefit under his annuity wont  provide for 
his partner in the way it seems he originally expected it would. Because  of this he considers 
his annuity now has limited benefit  and so hed like WFS to amend it.
While I note Mr Rs wishes I must  also have regard for the relevant rules applicable to both 
his Protected  Rights  Personal Pension  and the annuity he purchased using the proceeds  of 
this.
As has already  been explained Mr Rs WFS pension only comprised of Protected  Rights  and 
so this was also the case  for Mr Rs annuity. Pension rules  for Protected Rights  provide  for 
the payment of a pension to a policyholders  spouse  at the date of the policy  holders death. 
Because of this Mr Rs annuity always had to include the 50% spouse  pension hes now 
complaining about. The spouses  pension is only payable to Mr Rs spouse at the time of his 
death. This wasnt something Mr R could  ever opt out of with his annuity.
Ive looked carefully  at the available documentation available from 1989 when Mr Rs 
Protected Rights Pension was set up and 2006  when he purchased  an annuity using his 
Protected Rights Pension. Having done  so Im satisfied WFS set up Mr Rs annuity correctly. 
I also think Mr R ought to reasonably have been aware of the nature of the pension he had. 
And specifically that the annuity  he later purchased  included specific pension provision for 
his spouse at the time he passed  away.
The WFS  Pension Option  Benefit Statement  form Mr R completed and signed  in agreement 
to on 21 April 2006 made clear that the following was applicable to his annuity  choice:
The pension includes a spouses pension of 50% of the members pension.  Should the 
policyholder die during  the guarantee period then the pension will continue to be paid in full 
to the end of the guarantee period, after which the 50% spouses pension will become 
payable.
I have also reviewed the scheme  rules applicable to Mr Rs Protected Rights  Pension which  
confirms that WFS  were obliged to provide the spouses pension specified  in the policy  
documentation in the event of the death  of the policyholder.  Specifically the documentation 
said:
On the death  of the Member after the Pension Date, a pension  will be payable at half of the 
above rate to the widow or widower  to whom the member was married at the date of death. 
Ref: DRN75554323Mr R isnt married  to his partner. And so his partner doesnt currently meet the requirement  
that she be Mr Rs spouse/widow in order to benefit  from his annuity when he passes away. 
However in the event  Mr R is married  to his partner or someone  else when he passes away, 
as Mr Rs spouse they will have  an entitlement to the 50% spouse  pension under his 
annuity.
Mr R has queried why, at the time he applied for his annuity, WFS  didnt ask for proof of his 
marital status or question the fact that he and his partner had different surnames. I 
understand the point Mr R is making here but Im afraid what hes put forward isnt 
something I wouldnt have  expected  WFS to do at the time.  Entitlement to a spouses 
pension under an annuity policy is something that would only be established  upon  a policy 
holders death. And not when the policy was originally taken out. This isnt unreasonable  
because it allows for the possibility  that whilst the applicant may be unmarried at the time of 
the policy application, that may not be the case at death. 
Even if Mr R confirmed  to WFS at the time he took out his annuity policy that he wasnt  
married to his partner, the spouses pension benefit  would  still have  remained,  as 
determined by the rules  that underpin protected rights pensions. And in the event Mr R 
subsequently married his partner or someone else, they would have an entitlement  to the 
spouse pension  provided for under his annuity policy. 
WFS didnt advise Mr R when his pension  was set up in 1989  or when he later selected his 
annuity in 2006, Mr R arranged these himself.  It was Mr Rs responsibility to ensure he 
understood what he was selecting and the basis on which his annuity would operate.  
Ive looked at the annuity application form Mr R completed in 2006. The form asked Mr R to 
provide his spouses details and I can see that Mr R provided his partners details in the 
space for this. While  this supports Mr Rs claim that he made a genuine error when  he 
completed his annuity form and was under the impression his partner could qualify for the 
spouses pension  under his annuity,  this doesnt mean that WFS has done anything wrong. 
Unfortunately as Mr R seems to accept,  he misunderstood the meaning of spouse.
Removing the 50% spouse pension from his annuity  isnt an option thats available  to Mr R. 
It isnt something he can opt out of. The type of annuity Mr R has is limited  to the legislation 
then in force  regarding  Protected Rights. This required that when protected  rights  were used 
to purchase an annuity, a spouses pension had to be included,  irrespective  of the marital 
status of the annuitant at the time of purchase. Although this condition may not have suited 
Mr Rs personal  circumstances at the time, there was no discretion to take the annuity in a 
different format. As Ive explained Mr R was required to make  provision for a potential 
spouse at date of death; his marital status  at the time of the purchase had no bearing  on this 
requirement.
Taking everything into account  I can understand why Mr Rs unhappy to find that his annuity 
arrangement wont  take effect as he thought they would. However  I havent  seen anything to 
suggest WFS  has done anything wrong here.
WFS had to set up Mr Rs annuity  with a spouses  pension as it had to. There was no choice 
for Mr R or WFS when it came this as his whole pension fund comprised of protected  rights.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint and make  no award.
Ref: DRN75554324Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7555432