K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) refused to raise a 
chargeback on two dresses that she bought that were faulty. She also complains about how 
NatWest dealt with the chargeback and the incorrect information she was given.
background
Miss M bought two dresses  for £331.20  on 21 January  2018  for a party. She wore  the first 
dress for about an hour before the zip broke  whilst she was at a restaurant. Miss M then 
arranged for the second dress to be brought  to her but the strap on that dress  broke  a short  
while later. She says the dresses  were returned on 3 February 2018 and she wanted  a 
refund but she was sent two new dresses by the company. Miss M asked NatWest to raise  a 
chargeback but didnt  receive contact from it. She says she called NatWest  and asked  for a 
copy of its final response  by e-mail but didnt receive  it. She also says she was given 
incorrect information by NatWest when it told her she didnt have chargeback  rights as the 
transaction was face to face and that she shouldve  noticed the damage.
NatWest says it has to follow the chargeback rules and where  a company offers  a resolution 
then it cant assist. It says in this case the company has provided replacement dresses and it 
cant arbitrate between  parties in cases such as this.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought NatWest was bound  by the chargeback rules and thought  if it had raised a 
chargeback then it was unlikely  to succeed.  As the retailer had rejected Miss Ms request for 
a refund and had provided replacements. He didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly.
Miss M didnt accept that view and says the service  issue she raised  hadnt  been 
considered. She also says it wasnt unreasonable for her to ask for a refund and says if 
goods are faulty  then a chargeback can be raised.
NatWest says it made Miss M aware it was unable to help her and has provided its call 
recordings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I realise  Miss M will be disappointed  by my decision 
and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats happened. I hope she will consider 
other ways  of getting a refund from the retailer.
As Miss M knows the chargeback rules are not set by NatWest but by the card providers. 
There are no automatic chargeback rights but we normally consider it good practice that a 
chargeback is raised where the rules  allow especially where  a deadlock is reached between  
a retailer and a customer.
I have no doubt  here that the two dresses were  not of reasonable quality as both broke 
within a very short  while after being used for the first time. I have no doubt Miss M was 
caused embarrassment and inconvenience in arranging  for the second  dress to be brought  
to her. And a considerable part of her evening would have  been  taken up in resolving the 
problems caused  by the faulty dresses.
Ref: DRN75614842But the key question here is if NatWest  made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  in refusing to raise 
a chargeback. I dont  think  this is a case in which the retailer  was refusing to help or was 
refusing to engage with Miss M. But its a case in which it has replaced the faulty dresses  but 
refused to give Miss M a refund. So I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly  here by 
reasonably concluding that even if a chargeback was raised, then its unlikely it would 
succeed as the retailer  had provided replacement dresses. So in those circumstances I dont 
think its made a mistake by not raising  the chargeback. I make it clear  that Im not looking at 
Miss Ms statutory rights  in relation  to faulty  goods  but rather if NatWest fairly thought a 
chargeback couldnt succeed.
Ive listened to the calls between the parties  and I have  not heard NatWest  tell Miss M that a 
chargeback couldnt be made as the dresses should have been inspected  and that the 
dresses were bought  in person. I accept that conversation may have taken place on a call 
that wasnt recorded and I appreciate Miss Ms concern that the information was incorrect. I 
agree that both reasons  for not making  a chargeback  wouldve been  wrong  and that Miss M 
explained that the zip broke on the first dress  after it had been worn  and so she couldnt 
have noticed that when  it was bought.  But Im also satisfied  that they were not the reasons 
NatWest did give in its final response  for not raising the chargeback.
Im satisfied Miss M did ask NatWest to e-mail her the final response letter  but it didnt do so 
until some  time later. I accept that wouldve caused  her some frustration and inconvenience. 
But I dont think that justifies any compensation here. 
Overall I accept that NatWest couldve handled some aspects of the chargeback differently 
and in particular  regarding the conflicting  information it gave Miss M about  the reasons why it 
didnt raise a chargeback.  But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think a chargeback  
couldve succeeded here under the rules.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7561484