K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Lloyds Bank  Plcs decision to change the way it charged  him for using 
his overdraft facility.
background
Mr Ds Lloyds account had an overdraft facility with a £5,000 limit. And he had been using 
this facility for a number  of years. In November 2017, Lloyds changed  the way it charged  its 
customers for their overdrafts. They switched to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of the balance  
used.
For the first three months after the change came into effect, Mr D was put on a lower charge 
of 1p per £14. After this, Mr D was charged 1p per £7. This resulted in Mr D being charged 
considerably more for using his overdraft.
Mr D was unhappy he was being charged more for his overdraft and complained  to Lloyds. 
Lloyds issued its final response letter and explained the recent  charges on Mr Ds account  
were made up of two types of fees. These  were  fees under the old structure that were 
charged two months  in arrears, and the new daily charges. However,  he would only be 
charged the daily fees from the following month.  Lloyds  also explained Mr D could  contact its 
customer support unit (CSU) if he wanted  assistance in managing his finances.
Mr D called Lloyds CSU and discussed his income and expenditure. Lloyds adviser  
explained Mr D had over £600 remaining after his outgoings. They  also offered him a loan to 
repay the overdraft.  Mr D explained  he planned to repay his overdraft with money  he was 
expecting in a few months time.  He also explained he was unhappy hed been offered a 
loan and ended the call. Mr D made a separate complaint about being offered loan. This was 
addressed by our service  in a separate case.
Mr D contacted our service as he remained unhappy  with Lloyds. Our investigators looked  
into Mr Ds concerns, but they didnt uphold his complaint.  The first investigator explained 
Lloyds terms and conditions allowed  it to change the terms of its agreement  with Mr D. So, 
she didnt think it had acted unfairly.  And the second investigator said the fees were  a cost of 
using the overdraft, so she didnt think Lloyds  acted unfairly by charging Mr D. She also said 
she wouldnt  be asking Lloyds to do anything as Mr D had reduced his overdraft to level that 
isnt charged.
Ref: DRN75576532As Mr D disagreed with our investigators, his complaint was passed  to me to look into. In 
doing so, Mr D clarified his complaint points were:
The changes to his overdraft fees were  unfair,  and Lloyds has an obligation to treat 
its customers fairly;
Lloyds wasnt prepared to give him time to repay his overdraft  before applying  the 
new fees; and
Lloyds' final response letter didnt address his concerns; rather it redefined the issues  
hed raised.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March  2019.  In this, I explained I wasnt  minded to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint,  but in more detail than our investigator. Mr D and Lloyds had until 
1 April 2019 to provide  further points and comments  for me to consider.
Lloyds didnt have  anything further to add. Mr D asked  for a copy  of the call in which the 
income and expenditure was carried out. A copy was sent to him, but we didnt receive  any 
further comments on this call after it was sent. Mr D also made the following points  for me to 
consider:
Id put too much  emphasis on the income and expenditure assessment given that:
o the quality  of this call was poor, so he had difficulties liaising with Lloyds 
adviser; 
ohe didnt have all his financial documents and statements to hand during this 
call; and
ohe doesnt recall  agreeing he had £600  disposable income a month.
My use of bullet points underplays his complaint  in particular, that he said his 
overdrafts fees had increased  by 2,000   3,000%.
He didnt agree that Lloyds making  a commercial decision to increase  overdraft  
fees was a justification for their actions.
I didnt mention he would have had to pay interest if he took the loan offered by 
Lloyds, nor the fact he had paid off a loan the month  before he was offered a new 
one.
Overall, he considers the level by which the overdraft charges increased was unfair, 
and not treating customers fairly.  
Since my provisional decision, our service  took some time to consider our approach  to cases  
like Mr Ds. So, Im sorry for the time its taken for us to be able to issue a final decision in 
this matter.
Ive considered everything weve been provided again, alongside the points made by Mr D 
after my provisional decision. Having done so, my decision remains the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. I know this isnt the outcome he wanted, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Ref: DRN75576533I wanted to start by saying that my use of bullet points wasnt to underplay Mr Ds strength of 
feeling in this matter. Its up to me to determine the best way to articulate whats happened 
and any decision I make. And given the number  of points raised by Mr D, it was more 
pragmatic to condense them into bullet points to ensure my decision was clear and concise 
to both parties involved in this complaint.  Thats why Ive used them again in this final 
decision. And Mr Ds ability to provide further  comments to my provisional decision suggests  
he was able to understand it  albeit, he didnt agree with the outcome.
The overarching theme of Mr Ds comments to my provisional decision, is the fairness  of 
Lloyds decision to increase the cost of overdraft  charges. I maintain my stance that Lloyds 
made a commercial decision to increase the cost of overdrafts. And that change applied  to 
all of its overdraft customers, not just Mr D. Our service cant interfere in commercial 
decisions made by a financial business. But we can comment  on whether a particular 
customer was treated fairly by this commercial  decision.  And in doing that, we consider 
whether another customer,  with similar circumstances,  would have been treated in the same 
way. And from all the information provided,  Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr D 
was treated differently to other customers with similar circumstances. And its for that 
reason, my decision remains the same.  
Are the new overdraft fees fair?
In order to make a finding on this, Ive had to consider The Consumer Rights  Act 2015. This 
says an unfair contract term isnt binding  on a consumer. The Act gives an example of an 
unfair term, and its one that allows a business  to change its terms unilaterally without giving 
a valid reason in the contract. However,  the same Act also details a number of exclusions. 
And one of these  is a term that allows changes to charges, if the consumer is told about  it at 
the earliest opportunity, and they are able to exit the contract. A further exclusion is a term in 
a contract, such as a current account,  where the consumer  must be told of the change and 
can exit the contract.
The relevant  terms in Mr Ds contract  are quite broad. And on the face of it appear to give 
Lloyds a wide discretion to make changes to the way they charge for their account. But 
because of how they are worded, its possible Mr D wouldnt have foreseen the kind of 
change Lloyds chose  to make when he first opened his account.
The Consumer Rights Act expects business like Lloyds to tell its customers about  a change 
in charges at the earliest opportunity. Lloyds sent Mr D a letter about the changes in 
August 2017.  And having read this letter, I consider Lloyds clearly set out what  the changes 
would be.
Mr D told us he didnt receive  this letter. I dont dispute thats  the case, but Ive seen 
information from Lloyds  that shows this letter was sent. Ive also seen that Lloyds has the 
same address for Mr D, as we do on file. So, while Mr D may not have received it, I dont 
think it would  be fair to hold Lloyds at fault if the letter was addressed correctly. Thats 
because Lloyds wouldve  relied on the postal  service  to ensure Mr D received the letter.
The next thing  Ive had to consider is whether the terms of Mr Ds current  account allowed  
him to exit his contract at any time. And having read them, I agree they did. But Mr Ds ability  
to exit the contract in real terms is a different  consideration. Thats because Mr D would have 
had to repay his overdraft  to do that.
Ref: DRN75576534Lloyds final response  letter  referred Mr D to its CSU. And during this call Mr D completed an 
income and expenditure. This showed Mr D had over £600 surplus each month  after paying 
his outgoings,  and the adviser offered Mr D a loan to repay the overdraft. Mr D explained he 
didnt want to take out a loan to repay the overdraft.  He also said he only wanted to make  
minimal repayments towards the overdraft as he was hoping to come into money  that hed 
use to repay  it. 
The surplus funds  and the offer of a loan suggest Mr D was in a position to exit his contract 
when the overdraft charges changed.  So, I cant say the change in charges were  unfair  for 
Mr D.
Following my provisional decision, Mr D said the call quality was poor while doing the 
income and expenditure. He also said he wasnt fully prepared  to go through  his finances at 
the time the income and expenditure was carried out. But I didnt hear anything in the call 
that suggested Mr D couldnt give Lloyds adviser  the information  they needed to carry out 
the income and expenditure.  Lloyds  could only make a decision on the information they were 
given. So, Mr D could have made Lloyds aware he needed time to prepare. Alternatively,  he 
could have contacted Lloyds again  to update them on his income and expenditure, if upon 
reflection, he felt the information hed given didnt truly reflect  his circumstances. But that 
didnt happen.  So, I cant fairly say Lloyds  acted unfairly when they relied on the information  
Mr D provided  when  determining the affordability of his overdraft and offered him a loan.
Charges applied to Mr Ds account before he reduced his overdraft
I agree  the fees applied to Mr Ds account significantly increased when the daily charges 
were introduced. Mr D planned  to use his bonus to repay his overdraft. So, I understand why 
he didnt want to pay the new charges before he had the opportunity to sort his finances. 
However, this doesnt take away from the fact Mr Ds income and expenditure showed he 
had enough surplus funds  to pay the fees - and reduce  his overdraft each month.  Mr D was 
also offered a loan for the full amount of his overdraft. And had he have taken it, he wouldnt 
have had to pay the daily charges. So, I dont think Lloyds treated Mr D unfairly when it 
applied the daily charges.
Mr D doesnt consider it was appropriate for Lloyds  to offer him a loan as it should have 
been aware hed only recently paid off a loan. Hes also said that I hadnt taken into account 
the fact interest  would have been applied to the loan.
I dont consider previously  paying off a loan automatically means someone shouldnt be 
offered a new loan.  The important thing  for a bank, like Lloyds, to consider, is whether that 
new loan would be affordable for their customer.  And given the points mentioned  above,  Ive 
not seen evidence to suggest  Mr D couldnt  afford the loan offered, if he didnt want  to pay 
the overdraft charges.
I was also always aware that interest  would have applied to the loan. Thats  common 
practice with loans. Ultimately, what this comes down to is that fact that Mr D owed Lloyds 
money. And when a customer borrows money  from a bank, there  are costs involved in that  
whether thats  interest or daily charges.  So, it was up to Mr D to decide which costs he 
could afford  and was prepared  to pay until he cleared the chargeable overdraft balance, he 
legitimately owed Lloyds.
Ref: DRN75576535Mr Ds overdraft was reduced to a level where he wasnt being charged  for using it. And he 
did this by making a cash balance  transfer with a credit card. Mr D has asked that Lloyds 
reimburse him for the associated charges.  
Mr D chose to carry  out the balance transfer  because he didnt want  to pay the daily fees. As 
mentioned above,  I dont  consider the new fees were unfair in his circumstances.  So, I cant 
say it would be reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay the costs associated  with the way Mr D 
chose to avoid  the daily fees.
Lloyds final response  letter
Mr D says Lloyds didnt  fully address his concerns when  it issued  its final response letter. 
I appreciate Mr D wanted Lloyds response  to provide more clarity  around the change in its 
charging structure. However,  Im not in a position to reach a finding on this point. Thats  
because our service can only look into activities detailed in The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook.  And complaint handling  doesnt fall within  the remit of the activities  
described under DISP  2.3. 
While I cant comment  on the final response letter, I do think Lloyds could have and should  
have done more to explain things to Mr D. I say this because Ive listened  to the call in which 
Mr D went through his income  and expenditure with Lloyds. And at no point in this call did 
Lloyds adviser explain  Mr D had enough funds each  month  to make payments that would 
reduce his overdraft.  In fact, all Lloyds adviser discussed were the implications of taking a 
refinancing loan with Lloyds and how much Mr D would need to pay for this.
I appreciate Lloyds complaints team and CSU are separate departments. And this is a 
possible reason  why the CSU advisor didnt go into detail about the new fees being fair. 
However, I dont consider  it was reasonable for Mr D to come  away  from the CSU call 
without the information or options  he was looking  for. I say this because  Lloyds  complaints  
department referred  Mr D to the CSU  team.  So, its not unreasonable to think  Mr D expected 
to come away from that call with a clearer idea of where he stood.
I should make it clear here that Im not commenting on whether Lloyds should or shouldnt  
have offered Mr D loan. That matter was addressed  in a different case. Im merely 
commenting on the fact Lloyds  missed  an opportunity to provide Mr D with the information  
he needed.
To conclude,  Lloyds should have  given Mr D clearer information. But I dont consider this 
impacted his ability to make repayments to reduce his overdraft  or pay the applicable daily 
fees. So, I dont  consider  Lloyds need  to do anything  to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7557653