K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that CGFM LTD gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pension  to a         
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in Carbon Credits.
background
In 2012, Mr R was self-employed and held pension  benefits  in two money purchase 
schemes. 
Mr R says he was phoned out of the blue by a Mr K, acting  on behalf of a company called 
Carbon Advice  Group, who told him about investing in carbon credits.  Carbon Advice Group 
introduced Mr R to CGFM, who recommended  he transfer his existing pension into a SIPP. 
By September 2013,  the company holding the Carbon Credits went  into liquidation. The 
investment has been given  a nominal value of £1. 
In May 2017, Mr R complained to CGFM about  the advice hed been given. CGFM didnt  
uphold the complaint. It said Mr R approached CGFM with the intention  of investing in 
Carbon Credits, and the advice it gave was limited to the suitability of transferring his 
pension based  only on cost. CGFM hadnt given any advice about  investing in Carbon 
Credits. But it had provided guidance in relation to the risks associated  with this investment 
and ensured it was in line with Mr Rs attitude  to risk. 
CGFM also said Mr R may have had an ulterior motive for wishing to transfer his pension,  as 
he received a cash payment as an incentive  for investing in Carbon Credits. CGFM didnt  
know about this at the time, and if it had been  aware it would have declined to act for him. 
Mr R remained  dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and thought  it should be upheld. He said 
Mr Rs existing pension had a value of around  £45,000. It wouldnt normally be regarded as 
suitable to recommend switching to a SIPP for such a small fund. The adjudicator said 
CGFM had a duty of care, knowing Mr R intended to purchase  Carbon Credits, to assess 
whether the investment was suitable  for him. He noted CGFM  had accepted it provided 
guidance as to the suitability and risks associated with investing in Carbon Credits.  The 
adjudicator thought CGFM should not have promoted this investment to Mr R, as it was 
complex, non-mainstream and high risk. 
The adjudicator said CGFM should  compensate Mr R for the loss hed suffered, but could 
make a deduction for the incentive  payment hed received.
CGFM didnt agree. It said the stockbroking firm who had advised Mr R to purchase  the 
Carbon Credits priced them  incorrectly. They  should have been purchased for the best price  
on a recognised exchange.  CGFM thought there was a conspiracy between the stockbroking 
firm and the SIPP provider to defraud Mr R of his pension fund. 
CGFM also said Mr R clearly lied when he approached them  to facilitate  the transfer of his 
pension so as to access his funds illegally to fend off repossession  of his property. He 
withheld this from CGFM at the time of his request. CGFM was entitled to rely on the 
information it was given. Had he been honest about  his intentions,  theres no doubt CGFM  
would have told him it wasnt legal and refused to act for him. 
Ref: DRN79037832Mr R told CGFM his pension fund only represented  a small proportion of his overall wealth 
(less than 10%). So although CGFM knew the pension would be invested in Carbon Credits,  
as this was a relatively small part of his overall investments it was fair to consider that a 
medium risk investor was prepared to gamble some of his investments in a high risk asset.  
The adjudicator had referred to Carbon Credits as an unregulated  collective  investment  
scheme (UCIS), but this is incorrect. And while they are non-mainstream and complex,  this 
was pointed out to Mr R. The risks were  explained, including the fact that Carbon Credits  
could be difficult to sell in the future, or even not at all. Mr R acknowledged this, but was 
apparently so intent  on investing he was prepared to lose the rest of his pension  fund in 
order to keep his house. 
If CGFM were to put Mr R in the position he would have been  in now had he not transferred 
his pensions, it would have to arrange for his house to be taken off him as well. 
CGFM said it acted in good  faith in trying  to help Mr R with his request for a specific  
transaction. It agreed to act in a limited way to reduce the cost. He was offered the option of 
a full review, which he declined. Had Mr R acted in good faith, he would have told CGFM  the 
truth and it would have  instructed him on a different course of action. 
The adjudicator considered the points made by CGFM, but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. He said CGFM should have not advised Mr R without  conducting  a thorough  review  of 
his financial affairs, and didnt  think the incentive  payments  had any relevant impact on 
Mr Rs financial  situation at the time. If CGFM  hadnt facilitated the pension transfer, the 
stockbroker couldnt  have arranged for the purchase  of Carbon Credits within the SIPP.  
Whether or not Carbon  Credits are a UCIS,  they are in any event unregulated, non-
mainstream and high risk investments. 
CGFM didnt agree and asked for the matter  to be passed to an ombudsman. It maintained 
that the investment was now virtually worthless  as a result  of fraud committed by the 
stockbroker. Also, Mr R was offered the option  of a full review, which  he refused. It is up to a 
client if they want to withhold information.  
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was introduced to CGFM by Carbon Advice  Group, and so I think  its fair to say that the 
concept of using his pension as a means of investing in Carbon Credits came  from this third 
party. But as Carbon Advice  Group  wasnt authorised to give financial advice, it referred 
Mr R to CGFM for this purpose.  As such,  CGFM is responsible for the advice it gave.  And 
CGFM was required to give advice in line with the regulators rules. 
It appears that CGFM had a process  in place to deal with such  referrals. Its terms of 
business said CGFM could be engaged on one of two bases:
To provide advice  in matters contained  in his instructions, assessing his needs and 
taking account  of his financial objectives and risk tolerances.
Ref: DRN79037833Not providing any advice and either acting entirely on his instructions (execution-
only) or asking Mr R some questions to narrow the options  to enable him to decide 
how to proceed.
The terms of business said that CGFMs letter of engagement would confirm  the basis  on 
which it would act for Mr R. Ive not seen a letter of engagement, but I have seen a fee 
agreement which Mr R signed on 17 October  2012. This stated that Mr R had been 
introduced to CGFM by Carbon Advice  Group.  It said CGFMs advice  was limited to the 
suitability of transferring  his personal pension scheme to a pension scheme that accepts 
investments in Certified Emission  Reduction Certificates (Carbon Credits). 
The agreement also stated:
We will not be providing advice as to the suitability of any investment held within the 
pension scheme  and it is our understanding that you have done your own due diligence  and 
assessed the suitability of any investment arranged through Carbon Advice Group.  These 
are generally  accepted  as being high risk investments that are not regulated by the FSA, 
may be difficult to sell in the future and do not benefit from any protection from the FSCS in 
the event they may become worthless  in the future. 
The fee agreement  noted that CGFM  would  charge  a one-off fee of £950 to arrange  the 
SIPP and manage  the transfer process. 
So it seems  from the above that CGFM had a process in place  in which  it would accept a 
referral from Carbon Advice Group, and would then source a SIPP  provider which would  
accept investments in Carbon Credits, but wouldnt give any advice  about  the investment  
itself. But I dont think it was open to CGFM to limit its obligations to Mr R in this way.  
In saying this, Im mindful that the FCA has issued  alerts  in respect of advising on pension  
transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.  
One was published on 18 January 2013  and a further one on 28 April 2014.  These  alerts  
didnt make any changes  to the regulations. They simply re-stated the principles that already 
applied, and which were  in place in 2013 when the advice  was given.
The regulator made its position clear  when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). 
Examples of these  unregulated investments are diamonds, overseas property 
developments, store pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-mainstream 
propositions.
Financial advisers using this advice  model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
Ref: DRN79037834SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be 
particularly clear to financial advisers  that, where a customer  seeks  advice on a pension 
transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer  
must take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment 
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable.
I dont think it was possible for CGFM to give advice about the suitability of a SIPP without  
also considering  how Mr R planned to invest. Its clear CGFM knew about Mr Rs intention to 
invest in Carbon Credits  from the outset. 
I have therefore  considered  if the investment was suitable for Mr R. I think the Conduct of 
Business rules (COBS) set out by the regulator in its Handbook are relevant here.
COBS 9 applies to a firm which  makes a personal  recommendation  in relation to 
a designated investment. 
COBS 9.2.1R says:
(1) A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable  for its client.
(2)When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information  regarding the clients:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation,  or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 19.2.2R says: 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about  him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially  to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with his 
investment objectives;  and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge in order to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
Ref: DRN79037835CGFM appears  to have based  its understanding of Mr Rs circumstances on information  it 
obtained in a phone call. But this seems to have been limited to him being self-employed 
and co-habiting with no dependent children. It doesnt appear that Mr R was asked any 
questions about  his financial status or investment experience.  
On the whole, I dont  think  CGFM fulfilled its requirement under COBS  19.2.2R to obtain 
sufficient information  about Mr R. 
CGFM has told us it was entitled  to rely on the information Mr R provided.  But Ive not seen 
evidence he was deliberately withholding  or concealing information, nor that he was 
unwilling to provide whatever information requested from him. Rather,  it seems  to be the 
case that CGFM  simply didnt ask the relevant questions about  his circumstances. And in 
fact seems to have shown  a remarkable lack of curiosity about this subject. In my view, the 
information CGFM obtained  fell far short  of what would  reasonably  be required to give 
suitable advice.  
I note CGFM says Mr R refused the option  of having a full review. But I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect  him to opt-in  for such a service  in order  to receive  suitable  advice. As 
Ive explained,  there  was an obligation  placed on CGFM to obtain  sufficient  information  
before advising  Mr R. It failed to do so. 
CGFM did carry  out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk. This was by way of a 
questionnaire headed risk assessment questionnaire carbon credit investments. So again it 
seems this was aimed particularly towards  customers who had expressed  an interest in this 
type of investment. Having reviewed the answers  Mr R gave to the various questions,  it 
seems that he was prepared to take a reasonably high degree  of risk. But he also described  
his overall attitude  to risk in general as medium. So I think  there was some discrepancy  in 
the answers he gave  which CGFM should  have  explored. 
CGFM sent Mr R a suitability  letter  in December 2012 saying that his details had been 
passed to them by Carbon Advice  Group. The report said Mr R required advice as to the 
suitability of transferring  his existing pension arrangements  to a product that would allow him 
to hold Carbon  Credits.  Mr R was noted to be 34 years old and self-employed.  His planned 
retirement age was 65 and he had two existing pension arrangements  with a combined 
value of around £45,400. 
The report  described  Mr R as being  a moderately adventurous investor. For the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not convinced  that was an accurate assessment. But even if it was, I dont 
think it was sufficient to justify him investing in Carbon  Credits.  
CGFM has said it wasnt correct for the adjudicator to describe  the investment as a UCIS. 
But it also accepts that this was a non-mainstream  and complex investment. In fact, CGFM  
should have appreciated  it was a very high risk investment, and as such  only suited to a 
small number of customers. The suitability report said that Mr R had confirmed he had the 
capacity to lose 50% of his investment.  But CGFM should have known  that investing in 
Carbon Credits had the potential for far greater  losses, and taken this into account when 
making its recommendation.  
On the whole, I dont  think  Mr R should  have  been  advised to transfer into the SIPP in order 
to invest in Carbon  Credits. 
Ref: DRN79037836Ive noted the points  made by CGFM about the incentive payments Mr R received as a result 
of investing in Carbon Credits. CGFM has suggested this was illegal, but not explained this 
further. Ive not seen  evidence that receiving  such a payment infringed any rules  in relation 
to Mr Rs pension. Instead,  it seems to have  been  some form of arrangement between Mr R 
and Carbon Advice Group. 
I appreciate Mr R said that at the time he was contacted by Carbon Advice  Group his home 
was in the process of being repossessed, and he found the introducers fee very attractive. 
But he also said that he made it clear he couldnt afford to lose his pension.  He was assured 
this was unlikely  to happen. 
Clearly, the payments Mr R received were  useful for him at the time, given his 
circumstances. But Im not convinced they were so important that Mr R would have been 
willing to put his future retirement provision at serious risk through  investing in Carbon 
Credits. Instead, I think that if CGFM had advised  him not to transfer and therefore  not make  
the investment,  its more  likely than not he would have followed that advice.  
However, as Mr R wouldnt have  received the payments had he not made  the investments, I 
agree with the adjudicator  that CGFM can take these into account when calculating the 
compensation due to Mr R. 
CGFM has also said that it shouldnt be responsible for any loss suffered  by Mr R because 
there was a conspiracy between the SIPP provider and the stockbroking firm. This meant  
Carbon Credits were  purchased at an inflated  price. But while Ive considered this point, I 
dont agree.
I dont think the SIPP  provider would have had any say or control in relation to the price paid 
to purchase Carbon Credits within Mr Rs plan. Its role was to act as the administrator and 
trustee of the SIPP. While this included ensuring  any investments were permitted by the 
relevant rules, it would  only have  been acting on an execution-only basis in relation to the 
actual investments. Further, I find it unlikely that the SIPP provider would have had an in-
depth knowledge of the Carbon  Credit market such as to determine whether  any purchases 
represented good value for money.
In relation to the stockbroker, although CGFM  has suggested this business  purchased  
Carbon Credits at an inflated price, it has provided  no substantive evidence to support its 
opinion. In fact, CGFMs  view is apparently based in its belief of what happened. 
In any event, this seems to miss the point  that Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
his pension to facilitate the investment in the first place. As such, his pension fund shouldnt  
have been exposed to the risks involved in the investment. For the reasons  Ive explained, 
CGFM is responsible for that advice, and the loss hes suffered as a result. 
If CGFM consider there are other  parties who have contributed to his loss, it is open to 
CGFM to pursue these businesses separately. This doesnt detract from its obligation to 
compensate Mr R fully for his loss.
CGFM has also suggested that Mr R was facing having his home  repossessed at the time of 
the advice, and as the incentive payments may have averted this he should lose his home 
as part of any compensation. I dont find this suggestion realistic,  let alone fair and 
reasonable. I therefore dont agree that Mr Rs home  has any bearing  on the compensation 
he is due from CGFM.
Ref: DRN79037837fair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr R's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  CGFM do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, CGFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
CGFM should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, CGFM should  pay into Mr R's pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If CGFM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr R £300 for the trouble and upset  he's been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CGFM  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been  taken off. CGFM  should  give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN79037838investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. CGFM should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If CGFM is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. CGFM may require that Mr R provides an undertaking to pay 
CGFM any amount he may receive  from the investment  in the future.  That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. CGFM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if CGFM totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
Ref: DRN79037839fair measure  for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although  it is called  income index, the mix and diversification provided within  the index 
is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mr Rs circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that CGFM LTD should pay the amount calculated  as 
set out above.
CGFM LTD should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903783