K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  hasnt given him a 
satisfactory breakdown  of the balance it says he owes after cancelling  his motor insurance 
policy. And he thinks the amount it says is outstanding is incorrect. He also says hes been 
stressed and inconvenienced  by it chasing for the amount when it said it would put things on 
hold.
background 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
We arent a regulator and cant tell First Central  how it should operate or the fees it 
charges to administer  a policy.  But we can look at whether  the policy cancellation 
was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr C agreed  to the terms and conditions  before  accepting the policy. And they were  
sent to him shortly after he took it out. If he thought they were unreasonable he had 
the option of cancelling the policy in the first 14 days of cover  but it continued.
Confusion has arisen about the actual amount of the premium charged and how 
much interest was payable on it. First Central  has confirmed there was a system  
error and the policy documents incorrectly said the premium  was £381.02 when the 
correct premium was £392.63. The amount it had subsequently asked  Mr C to pay 
appears to be fair and in line with the terms of the policy.
Theres nothing in the call recordings suggesting First Central  agreed  to place 
recovery of what was owed on hold as Mr C suggests.
Overall the policy has been  cancelled and charges applied in line with its terms and 
conditions. First Central has offered  to refund  the difference between the two 
premiums of £11.61  plus interest.  Thats fair. 
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary he thinks  we 
should consider  the fairness of the fees charged. Hes unhappy with the form of the 
information First Central  has given him. he says First Central  agreed  to suspend its recovery  
action but didnt do so. It also said its fees had been  approved by the FCA. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided detailed  submissions  to support his complaint.  Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Mr C has expressed  dissatisfaction with the way First Central has communicated and 
presented information  to him. Hes also unhappy about the level of the fees hes been 
charged for the administration  of his policy and says he was told its fees were  approved  by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Ref: DRN77776322But this service isnt a regulator.  We cant  fine or punish a business or require  it to change it 
practices and procedures. Nor can we consider the reasonableness of the fees First Central 
applies. General  issues  about how the insurance  industry works  are a matter  for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. If Mr C remains unhappy with these matters  or any regulatory  
issues he will need to contact the FCA. 
First Central accepts a system  error led to Mr Cs policy documents  stating an incorrect 
premium. But it has subsequently  agreed to refund the £11.61 difference  and pay some  
interest on this amount.  I think thats fair and puts things  right.
Mr C is also unhappy with the way First Central has dealt with him particularly that it didnt 
put recovery of the outstanding amount on hold as he says it agreed to. But as the 
adjudicator has said it doesnt appear First Central  agreed to put its recovery action on hold 
as is suggested.
It seems  Mr Cs policy was cancelled in line with its terms and conditions.  And if he was 
unhappy with the fees set out for the administration of his policy  Mr C had the option of not 
taking out the policy  in the first place  or cancelling it in the initial 14 day cooling off period. 
But he didnt  do so.
I recognise Mr Cs frustration at whats happened as a result of First Centrals system error 
and that hes had to engage with it to sort things out. But all consumers spend  some time 
and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing with a matter  like this, a complaint 
and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and 
Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  depart from this approach  in this case.
Taking everything into account  I think First Centrals  offer to refund  the premium  difference  
and pay some interest is fair. And I dont  think I can reasonably require it to do or pay any 
more. 
  
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Gs frustration and strength of feeling, I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case. I simply leave it to Mr C to 
decide if he now wants to accept First Centrals  offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7777632