K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y has complained that she was mis-sold an income protection insurance  policy  by The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited.  She has also complained about aspects of 
Prudentials administration of the policy since then.
 
background
In 1999, while in the process of obtaining a mortgage, Mrs Y met with an adviser  from 
Prudential and agreed to take out an income  protection insurance policy underwritten by 
Prudential. The policy would pay a monthly benefit, after a waiting period of thirteen  weeks, if 
Mrs Y was unable to work due to illness or injury.
In 2018, with the policy still in force, Mrs Y complained to Prudential that the policy  had been  
mis-sold. Prudential didnt uphold her complaint.  Mrs Y therefore referred her complaint to 
us. She complained,  in particular, that the commission paid to Prudentials  representative  
had been excessive.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Prudential  had done  nothing 
wrong.
Mrs Y didnt accept the investigators findings. She raised various concerns, including  that 
she hadnt received  regular  reviews  which had been promised,        
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The investigator initially explained to Mrs Y why he felt the sale had been conducted 
properly. He later said that he couldnt  consider events  before 1 February 2003 and 
therefore his consideration  of the merits of Mrs Ys complaint was confined  to Prudentials  
actions since that date.
While it is true that there was a change to our rules on 1 February 2003, I cant  see that this 
prevents me from considering a complaint  brought now about  an event in 1999  given  that 
Prudential has apparently consented  to us considering the matter.
The evidence shows that, at the time of sale, Prudentials adviser carried out a fact find 
which showed that Mrs Y had a need to protect her income against the risk of long-term 
inability to work. The adviser  recommended  that Mrs Y take out an income protection  
insurance policy which would pay benefit in the event she was unable to work because of 
accident or sickness. Im satisfied this was a suitable recommendation. The adviser  also 
recommended a sum assured,  a waiting period and a policy  duration  which  appeared to be 
appropriate for Mrs Ys circumstances  at the time. The adviser set out her recommendations 
in a report which made clear that Mrs Y was not obliged to follow the advisers  
recommendations. I see no reasonable grounds for concluding that the policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN73469882When she complained  to us, Mrs Ys chief objection was that the commission paid to 
Prudentials adviser  was excessive. Mrs Y has since admitted that she didnt  know how 
much commission had been paid but that she recalled being told at the time that it would  
consist of a lump sum initial payment followed by regular payments during the lifetime of the 
policy. Prudential has explained  that the amount  of commission  would have  been  stated in 
an illustration given  to Mrs Y at the time of sale. Im satisfied that this is likely  to have 
happened and, while Prudential was no longer able to provide a copy  of the illustration,  I 
dont find this surprising  given the passage  of time.  Prudential has also provided details of 
the commission which has been  paid to the adviser  and I dont consider this to be excessive.
Mrs Y has also said that she wasnt provided  with regular  reviews as promised. The only 
reference I can find to reviews is that the policy was subject to a review by an actuary after 
five years and occasionally thereafter.  This was to determine whether  the premium  was 
adequate to deliver the particular sum assured; I dont consider that this was a promise to 
review Mrs Ys individual  circumstances.  
Mrs Y has also raised a concern that she should  have been  allowed to claim benefit under 
the policy when  she temporarily stopped working in 2013. As far as I can gather from 
Mrs Ys explanation, she chose to stop working rather  than was forced to do so for medical 
reasons. In any case, if she didnt make a claim at that time, I cant  see how Prudential was 
at fault in any way. She later resumed working but for fewer hours.
Mrs Y says she would  like to receive some  unbiased financial advice to evaluate  her 
circumstances and ensure the policy is appropriate to her needs. With respect, there  is 
nothing stopping her from seeking such advice from an independent adviser. In particular, if 
Mrs Y has reduced her working hours,  this presumably  has had an effect  on her earnings. I 
dont have any information about Mrs Ys current income but if this should be insufficient to 
support the full sum for which she is insured (i.e. she is now over-insured), she may be able 
to ask Prudential  for a partial refund of premiums  on the grounds  that it has been receiving 
premiums without running the full risk attached to that level of premium.
However, in terms of the complaint that has been brought to this service, I dont find that 
Prudential has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7346988