K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a home security alarm system by ADT Fire and 
Security Plc.
background
In June 2017 Mr B entered into a hire agreement for the takeover of a home security alarm 
system with ADT.
A sales person  from ADT discussed the system with Mr B. Mr B says the sales  person made  
representations about the specifications  of the system including:
Perimeter alarm could be set at night  with police response 
Alarm wouldnt be triggered by pets
New bell box would  be fitted  free of charge  to the front of the property
When an ADT engineer  subsequently visited Mr Bs property to commission the system, Mr 
B was told that the system wouldnt  operate  in the way that he had been led to believe. The 
engineer told Mr B that:
Night set wouldnt trigger a police  response
Alarm didnt have a pet safe sensor
Bell box replacement wasnt free of charge
Mr B subsequently complained to ADT and asked  to cancel the agreement.  ADT refused. It 
said that Mr B had signed a handover agreement and terms and conditions  confirming that 
he was happy  with the system at the time it was commissioned. ADT told Mr B he could 
cancel before the end of the agreement but that if he did so he would incur  an early  
termination fee.
Mr B wasnt  happy with ADTs response so he complained to this service.  He wants a refund 
of all charges.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that ADY hadnt mis-sold the 
agreement and that it had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the alarm system didnt function in the way that the sales  person 
said it would  and that hed tried to cancel the agreement  within  hours of signing it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about  the specifications that he expected from the alarm 
system. Theres  no contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed between Mr B and 
the sales person.  ADT dont have any notes of the discussions  and in response to some  of 
the issues which Mr B has raised about the alarm,  ADT has said that the alarm cant be set 
to function in that way. I wasnt present when Mr B met with the sales person so I cant  be 
certain of what was discussed. So in order to determine whether the agreement  was mis-
sold I need to look at the documents which were signed at the time.
Ref: DRN75852702Ive looked at the documents which Mr B signed including the handover agreement.  Mr B 
signed this after the engineer had explained the limitations of the system to Mr B. Because 
of this, even if there had been a misrepresentation by the sales person,  this 
misrepresentation was corrected  before  Mr B signed  the agreement. On the available  
evidence I cant conclude  that there  was a mis-sale.
Ive thought about how ADT responded  when Mr B complained. I can see that ADT 
suggested an alternative part setting of the perimeter and explained  the limitations of this 
setting. ADT also offered to replace the bell box free of charge. Mr B has said that ADT 
proposed to charge him for the bell box but I havent seen any information to suggest that 
this was the case.
I appreciate that Mr B has said that he tried to cancel the agreement.  Its not clear how and 
when (or even if) he made a formal request to cancel. Mr B has said that he tried to contact 
customer services  to request to cancel but that he didnt receive a call back.  
The agreement has a minimum term. On the available evidence,  the specifications  of the 
alarm system were  explained to Mr B before he signed the agreement. Mr B had the option  
to refuse  to sign the handover agreement  if he wasnt happy with the specification  of the 
system but he chose  to proceed.
On balance, Im unable to conclude that the agreement  was mis-sold. Im satisfied that ADT 
did as much as it could be expected to do to resolve  Mr Bs complaint. For the reasons given 
I do not uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585270