K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 1st 
Stop Car Finance Ltd.
background
In May 2018  Mr S was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with 1st Stop.  
In July 2018 Mr S experienced faults  including an oil leak with the car. At this point hed 
covered approximately 1200 miles  since  the point of supply. He returned the car to the 
dealer who attempted a repair. When Mr S collected  the car is still had issues.  
The car was inspected in September 2018.  The inspection  report  said the dealership had 
fixed some  of the faults but others remained.  The garage who carried out the inspection 
provided an estimate of what  it would  cost to fix the faults.
In November 2018 the garage who carried out the inspection said the oil leak had worsened 
and that the engine and transmission  needed  to be removed before a revised  estimate of 
what it would  cost to fix the fault could be provided.
At this point 1st Stop arranged for an independent  inspection. This was completed  in 
December 2018.
Following receipt of the independent inspection 1st Stop said it wouldnt pay to repair the oil 
leak.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He wants the oil leak repaired.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the independent inspection was inconclusive 
with regards to the oil leak and that the presence  of the exhaust leak suggested that 
previous repairs hadnt  been successful. The investigator recommended that 1st Stop 
arrange for the oil leak to be repaired  at no cost to Mr S.
1st Stop didnt  agree. It said there was no evidence to suggest that the current  exhaust  leak 
was related to the exhaust leak which had been identified at the October  2017 MOT. It also 
said that during  a telephone call the engineer who had conducted the independent 
inspection acknowledged  that an oil leak was present but said this was caused by rubber 
seals hardening which was a serviceable item as opposed to a manufacturing defect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because 1st Stop has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN78033552Mr S and 1st Stop disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point  of supply. So in 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available evidence  and determine  on the 
balance of probabilities whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. 
Mr S experienced problems with an oil leak approximately 2 months after the point of supply. 
During this time the car had covered approximately 1200 miles. At the time when the fault 
presented itself the total mileage was approximately 47,000 miles.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether of not a fault was present at the point of 
supply. In this case, an inspection  was carried out by an independent  engineer in December 
2018. The report concluded that the car was fit for purpose at the point of supply with the 
current issues having developed after the point  of supply and with the majority of them being 
routine maintenance issues apart from the oil leak which will require further  investigation 
under workshop control conditions  to ascertain the cause.
1st Stop has said that the independent inspection shows that the car was of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. I disagree.  I dont  think the report  is conclusive with regards to 
the oil leak. It specifically  notes that the oil leak will require further investigation. This hasnt 
happened. The report doesnt definitively say that the oil leak wasnt present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Ive taken into account that only a short time and mileage has elapsed since  the point of 
supply. Where a fault presents itself within 6 months  of the point of supply its the 
responsibility of the business to put things right unless it can show that the fault wasnt  
present at the point of supply.
Where a fault presents itself shortly  after the point of supply - as in this case - I would expect 
clear and conclusive evidence that the fault wasnt present  at the point  of supply. I dont think  
the independent report is sufficient in this regard, because it recommends a further 
investigation which 1st Stop has declined to arrange.
Ive thought about what 1st Stop has said about  this being a wear  and tear issue. It has 
referred to a telephone call with the independent  engineer. Ive listened to the call. The 
engineer says theres no proof the oil leak was there before. However, I can see that the 
car was returned to the dealership when the oil leak first presented  itself and theres a chain  
of correspondence  which refers to the oil leak thereafter. Based on this, Im satisfied that 
there is credible evidence that the oil leak was present in July 2018.  Further,  neither in the 
report nor in the telephone call does  the engineer say that the oil leak wasnt  present at the 
point of supply.  The available evidence suggests that the engineer isnt certain of what is 
causing the fault and cant be certain  until a further investigation is carried  out. Because  of 
this, Im not persuaded that the engineer is able to offer a reliable opinion on whether the 
fault was present at the point of supply based  on the current  inspection.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I dont think 1st Stop has shown that the 
fault wasnt present  or developing at the point of supply. Im satisfied that there is a fault 
which is causing oil to leak and Im of the view that its more  likely than not that this fault was 
present at the point of supply. Because of this I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN78033553my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.  1st Stop Car Finance Ltd should arrange 
for further  investigations  to diagnose the fault causing the oil leak fault and should then 
arrange for the fault to be repaired.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7803355