K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Sainsburys  Bank  Plc collected a larger  monthly repayment of her 
credit card balance than it should have done.
background
Mrs Gs repayment for her credit  card statement dated 18 September 2018  was due for 
collection by Sainsburys bank on 15 October. Mrs G had set up her repayments to be made 
in full by direct debit.  The amount that the bank should have  collected  on 15 October  was 
£4,693.10. But on 19 September Mrs G paid £4,500  of that balance,  and consequently 
expected the bank  to collect the additional  £193.10  on 15 October. But Sainsburys collected 
£1188.99.
Mrs G says this put her account  into overdraft, and she had to ask her husband to move 
money from other accounts  to help with this. She complained to Sainsburys and asked for a 
refund of her overdraft  fees, call costs and compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it had caused  her.
The bank didnt  think it had done anything wrong. It explained to Mrs G that as she was 
operating her account with full collection of the outstanding balance  on the due date, this is 
precisely what the bank  had done. It had calculated that amount to be £193.10 plus the 
additional purchases Mrs G had made after the statement date of 18 September  up until the 
date at which it had initiated the monthly  direct  debit repayment process.
But it agreed that it had given  Mrs G incorrect information when she rang to complain by 
attributing what had happened to a system error. And it recognised that there had been a 
delay in responding to her complaint. It therefore  credited  her account with £75 in 
compensation for these service errors.
Mrs G remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to us.
In summary,  our adjudicator agreed  with Mrs G that Sainsburys  bank hadnt  treated her 
fairly. He said she couldnt reasonably have been  expected to know that the bank  would 
collect payment for purchases made after the 18 September statement date before they 
would normally have  fallen due for repayment  on 12 November. He recommended that 
Sainsburys bank pay Mrs G an extra £150  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
her.
Sainsburys bank disagreed and argued  that as Mrs G had not changed her direct debit 
instruction after paying  £4,500 of the outstanding  balance on the September  statement, the 
bank had acted  reasonably in collecting the sum it did. It pointed  to its direct debit 
information for customers in support of its actions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially, Mrs G is complaining that Sainsburys bank should not have collected payment 
for purchases she made  after her September statement date because these should not have 
fallen due for repayment until 12 November.  I agree with her on this point in that that is the 
way credit card repayments  normally operate in allowing for the interest  free period on 
Ref: DRN76551782purchases. And so it follows from this that I would not have expected  Sainsburys bank to 
have collected  a repayment ordinarily  due on 12 November on 15 October unless its terms 
and condition made clear  that it would do so.
The banks online direct debit page gives customers three options for making that type of 
repayment: by fixed  amount,  by minimum payment or by full payment. The screen gives  
further information about how the system works  if the customer  selects fixed  amount, but 
nothing more about the full payment option.
Mrs G had set up her credit card to collect full repayment of the balance by direct debit every 
month. The statement  dated 18 September said that £4,693.10 would be collected  on 15 
October. The statement also said Bear in mind  even when you make  additional payments 
 your Direct  Debit will always  be taken every month unless you cancel  it. On 19 September  
Mrs G repaid £4,500  but made  no changes  to her direct debit. Sainsburys bank argues that 
its system was expecting to collect £4,693.10, but as the outstanding balance was less than 
this by the collection date it took what it could by including all purchases  made  since the 
statement date. In my judgment  that action was unfair and unreasonable and could not have 
been foreseen by Mrs G. As a maximum,  the bank was entitled  to take the amount specified 
on the statement  for purchases  identified on the statement.  When it discovered that the 
stated balance had reduced because of Mrs Gs early part repayment, it should not have 
attempted to make  up that difference by taking payment for purchases  not due for 
repayment until a later date.
The banks actions  caused Mrs Gs account  to go into overdraft, and she incurred charges. It 
also caused her distress and inconvenience.  I consider £150 would fairly recompense Mrs G 
for the trouble and upset  resulting from the actions of Sainsburys bank.
my final decision
My decision  is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc must pay Mrs G £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7655178