K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)  has handled his 
contents insurance claim.
Any reference to L&G also includes  its agents.  
background
In May 2018  the top shelf of Mr Js home entertainment stand gave way, causing  his TV to 
fall to the floor. The TV had also hit some  hi-fi equipment  which was lower  down on the 
stand. A lamp was also damaged by the falling TV. 
Mr J made  a claim to L&G and it agreed  to cover the damage to the stand and the lamp. But 
it noted only very minor  scuffs to the hi-fi equipment.  Mr J didnt know  if those items had 
been damaged  and didnt  want to turn them on in case this caused  further  issues.  So L&G 
offered to have its assessor test the items  at its site to find out if there  had been any damage 
caused by the falling TV.
Unhappy with this, Mr J complained to L&G.  He didnt  trust the courier  used by L&G and had 
doubts about L&Gs expertise in handling  and testing his equipment. Because  of the value of 
the items,  he wanted L&G to cover any costs hed incur to arrange  suitable transport to have 
the items  assessed.  L&G said it would only pay for reasonable transportation costs if it was 
found that the electrical items were damaged. But it did accept  it hadnt  been clear with Mr J 
about what costs  theyd reimburse.  It also accepted  it had initially instructed the wrong 
assessor when it knew it wouldnt be able to test Mr Js items. So it offered Mr J £100  
compensation for the unnecessary inconvenience caused. It also separately offered Mr J 
£50 for a delay in responding  to some of his emails.
Mr J also complained he should receive  a discount on his insurance renewal premium as the 
claim was still ongoing.  But L&G didnt agree to this. 
Our investigator thought L&G had offered reasonable  options for Mr J to get the items  
tested. He noted that L&Gs courier may not have been able to accommodate Mr Js items 
because of the size of some of the items.  But he said L&G had given Mr J the option of 
having his items couriered  himself.  But he said the quotes Mr J had provided  were for a 
same day courier service,  which wouldnt  normally be offered by L&G.  So he thought it was 
reasonable L&G would only agree to pay this if it was found that the items  were actually 
damaged. He also didnt think L&G had acted  unreasonably in progressing the claim, so it 
didnt need to pay any compensation for an insurance premium  increase.
Mr J didnt agree with what our investigator said. He said his TV could have been 
accommodated by L&Gs courier in 2018. So L&G had caused an unreasonable  delay and 
left him without a TV for longer than it should have. 
He also said hed made sure his electrical  items were listed  on his policy as high value 
items, and had been for years, yet L&G had never  said there would be restrictions on the 
cover that applied to them. He said hed spent a considerable  amount of time dealing with 
L&G and thought £200-£250 would be a more appropriate level of compensation.
Ref: DRN76340612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask L&G 
to do anything differently.  Ive explained  why below.
Mr J has sent in a lot of information in relation to his claim. Whilst Ive read all of this, the 
decision will focus only on the key reasons  for the outcome Ive reached. 
When making a claim under an insurance  policy, it is for the policyholder  (in this case  Mr J) 
to demonstrate hes suffered a loss that is covered by the policy. If he can do so, L&G will 
cover the claim unless it can rely on a valid exclusion to decline it. If he cant do so, L&G 
doesnt have to do anything further.
When Mr J first reported the claim for accidental damage, L&G accepted it and made an 
offer to Mr J for the replacement of the TV stand and the damaged lamp. It did so because  
the physical damage  to those items  was obvious and they were covered under the policy.
The electrical equipment had minor scuffs  but Mr J didnt know  if there had been internal 
damage that affected the functionality. So L&G offered to have the items assessed. It is 
Mr Js responsibility (not L&Gs) to show hes suffered a loss covered under the policy,  but in 
some cases  insurers will help its customers to show whether they have a valid claim for 
damage under the policy. So Im satisfied that L&G has treated him fairly by offering him 
some assistance. 
Mr J has also raised  concerns that L&Gs preferred  contractor doesnt have the expertise to 
deal with his equipment, as it doesnt typically deal with them.  L&G accepts Mr Js items are 
uncommon but has said its contractors can carry out the necessary tests to establish if 
theres any damage to the equipment. I have no reason to believe this isnt the case. And 
L&G has said it will take a report from a specialist  of Mr Js own choosing  so it isnt forcing 
Mr J to use its contractor.
The issue  here is that Mr J isnt reassured that the method L&G has provided  is suitable for 
his equipment. In total it seems Mr Js hi-fi system  is worth  around £8,000 and some  of the 
items are limited  edition,  and Mr J says it wouldnt be possible to replace them. So I 
understand why he wants  to ensure  his goods  wont return  in a worse  state  than they were 
before. But whilst Mr J is entitled  to decline L&Gs offer, I dont think  this means its acted  
unreasonably in what it has offered.
When it issued its final response to Mr J in August 2018 L&G said Mr J could have an 
independent report  carried  out himself. L&G said that if his equipment had suffered  damage  
as a result  of the falling  TV, it would cover the cost of the report. But it wouldnt cover the 
cost if it was found there was no damage to his items caused by the insured event.
I appreciate Mr J is unhappy with this, but I dont think L&Gs  offer is unreasonable.  It has 
offered a reasonable level of support in helping  Mr J demonstrate  he has a valid claim.  I 
accept Mr J may be left out of pocket if its established there isnt any damage to the hi-fi 
system that can be linked  to the claim. But Mr Js policy doesnt respond unless he can show  
hes suffered a loss that is covered under the policy. So unless and until hes able to do so, 
L&G doesnt  need to do anything more.
Ref: DRN76340613Since our investigator provided his opinion, Mr J says hes found out that L&Gs  courier  
could have transported his TV for testing, so L&G has caused  an unreasonable delay  in not 
doing so. But from everything Ive seen,  it seems Mr J was reluctant to use the courier, not 
L&G. So I dont find L&G provided  incorrect  information about transporting  his TV. So I dont  
think its responsible  for a delay.
Mr J has been without  his equipment for a significant period of time. But I consider the offer 
L&G made in August  2018 was a reasonable one. Mr J has corresponded further with L&G 
after this time and has been frustrated  by its responses, but because  Im satisfied it made a 
fair offer at that time I dont think it should  pay Mr J any compensation for the time hes been 
without his equipment.  
I also dont think L&G has acted unreasonably in not applying  a discount to Mr Js policy 
premium. The claim  was still ongoing when the policy was renewed, but I dont  think thats 
because of unreasonable delays caused  by L&G. So I dont think  Mr J has lost out because 
of an error  by L&G.
I accept Mr J has specified  his electrical  equipment as high value items under the policy. But 
I dont accept its been shown L&G doesnt  have the expertise to insure this equipment.  The 
issue so far here has been with how L&G has proposed to inspect the equipment. But as Ive 
already said, it doesnt have  to show the equipment is damaged, that is for Mr J to do. 
L&G has offered  £50 for not responding to some  of Mr Js correspondence promptly.  And 
£100 for giving  the wrong information initially about its contractors and what cost it would 
reimburse. Im satisfied that total compensation is sufficient for those errors. It seems to be 
L&G apologised for its delay in responding and promptly  explained its position on costs after 
Mr J provided  some  quotes. I dont think any further compensation needs to be paid to Mr J 
for the time hes spent dealing with the complaint as Im satisfied L&G offered a reasonable 
solution to him and hasnt treated him unfairly.
I appreciate my outcome doesnt  help Mr J to move things forward, but I find it is ultimately  
up to him, not L&G, to show his items  have  suffered damage as a result of the falling TV. If 
he doesnt do so, I dont think L&G needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I am aware that Legal  & General 
Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay Mr J £150. I conclude  that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Legal & General Insurance  
Limited should pay Mr J £150,  if it hasnt  done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76340614
Ref: DRN7634061