K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple.
background
Mrs F opened a store  card account  in a shop in 2001. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy. The policy  would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Fs card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she said 
that Mrs F had suffered from back problems for her whole life. And she didnt think  that 
Mrs F would have taken out the PPI if FICL had made it clear that she wouldnt be able to 
claim for back  problems under the policy. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs F 
and to FICL  on 19 July 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Fs application for the account. It includes a section on PPI. It 
instructs the applicant only to sign in a box below  if they wish to take the cover. Mrs F 
signed specifically to indicate that she wished to take the cover,  in addition to signing  the 
form overall. I thought that it would have been clear  to Mrs F from the way the form was 
set out that the PPI was optional.  And given that she signed specifically to take the 
cover, I thought she decided  to take it, knowing that she had a choice - although I could 
understand why she may no longer remember this, so many years  later.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F. So it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Mrs F good enough information  to enable her 
to decide for herself if she wanted  PPI, knowing what alternative means shed have had 
of making her monthly  repayments  if she was unable  to work.
If Mrs F had made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 
15% of what she owed on her account. And it would have done this each month until her 
credit agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance had been  
repaid - whichever was the earliest.  So I thought it was likely it would potentially  have  
covered Mrs F for significantly  longer  than shed have been  entitled to full sick pay for. 
Whats more, it would have  paid out in addition to any payments she received from her 
employer, so she could have  used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledged that Mrs Fs mentioned  that her family could  have helped  her financially 
if necessary. But circumstances  can change, and I couldnt be sure that Mrs Fs relatives 
would have been in a position to help if the need  had arisen. So taking everything  into 
account, I thought the policy  could have been useful for her.
Ref: DRN72327652I acknowledged that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the cost of 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would have  
been clear  from the application form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for the 
cover. Id seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable  for Mrs F. And as she 
was paying for it monthly,  she could have cancelled it without any further  cost if her 
situation changed.
I acknowledged that Mrs Fs told us she suffered from back problems when she took the 
policy out. Shes told us shed  injured her back in childhood, and then again  as an adult.  
But the second of those injuries  was around 20 years before she took out the PPI, and 
shes told us she hadnt had any time off work  for her back  problems. Mrs Fs 
representative has said that if something  had happened it could have cause  her to be 
absent from work for a numerous  amount of weeks. I accepted that that may have been 
true in principle. But I wasnt convinced, on balance, that when Mrs F took the PPI out, 
shed have thought it particularly likely that shed need to claim on the policy  for time off 
work due to back problems.
Mrs F could potentially have claimed  successfully if shed been off sick with any 
unrelated condition, or if she lost her job. So I didnt  think, on balance, that shed have 
made a different decision about  taking the PPI cover if shed been given better  
information about the exclusions  relating to existing medical conditions.  And she didnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the policy  didnt cover.
Taking  everything  into account, based on what Id seen  so far, I didnt think that better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs F off taking it out. So I didnt think  shed 
lost out as a result  of anything that FICL  may have done wrong. So based  on what  Id 
seen so far, I was planning  not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
further submissions
Neither Mrs F nor FICL has provided  any further  comments or evidence  for me to consider,  
and the time for doing so has now expired. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I cant  see any reason to 
depart from the findings I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7232765