K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Satsuma gave Mr K 11 instalment loans between December 2013  and May 2018. The loans  
ranged from £200 to £1,000 and were  repayable  in weekly instalments ranging  from 26 to 52 
weeks. Mr K repaid loans  one to eight but loans nine to 11 remain outstanding.  A summary 
of Mr Ks borrowing from Satsuma is shown as an appendix to this decision.
Mr K says that he couldnt afford  to repay  the loans whilst meeting his essential living  
expenses. He wants a refund of the sums advanced, interest and charges, with interest. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ks complaint. He said that Satsuma shouldnt have 
given Mr K loans four to 11. He set out what Satsuma should do to put things right.  Satsuma 
didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said that the adjudicator had only considered  the number 
of loans and that sustained  or sequential  borrowing isnt, in itself, either irresponsible or 
proof that the customer is persistently reliant  on borrowing. Satsuma said that it carries out 
individual checks on every loan application  and sustainability is considered.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN71575542Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance and later the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
I dont think Satsuma was wrong  to give Mr K loans one to three. Given the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask Mr K for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr K provided or the information Satsuma shouldve been  aware  
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying  what  Mr K said. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
four. Ive noted  the two-month gap in Mr K repaying loan two and taking out loan three  but I 
dont think that broke  the chain of lending here.  So, by loan four, Mr K had been borrowing 
from Satsuma with very little break for seventeen  months. His overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested that he had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. Whilst the amounts 
Mr K borrowed varied, they didnt  significantly decrease over this period and for the rest of 
Mr Ks borrowing  relationship with Satsuma.  In my view, the pattern of lending  itself shows  
that the loans  from loan four were  unsustainable.  So, I dont think  that Satsuma should have 
given Mr K loans four to 11.  
Mr K wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  11 was taken  
out over four years  and four months after Mr Ks first loan. Mr K had paid large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period. 
The sheer number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ks ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I dont  think that Satsuma should have  given Mr K loans four to 11 and Satsuma  should  
put things right.
Ref: DRN71575543putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
Mr K says that he wants a refund of the capital he borrowed. I dont think  that would be fair, as 
he had the use and benefit of the money  he borrowed. To put things right, Satsuma should;
refund all interest  and charges Mr K paid on loans four to 11 and write off any 
outstanding interest and charges  on loans  nine, ten and 11;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct from the refund above  any capital sum still due in relation to loans nine, ten 
and 11 and pay Mr K the balance, if any. If there  remains  an outstanding balance  
owed to Satsuma  in relation to loans nine, ten and 11, Satsuma should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr K;
the number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans four to eight should  be removed 
from Mr Ks credit  file. Entries about loans  nine, ten and 11 should be removed once 
the capital owing on those loans has been repaid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint in part. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma, should  pay Mr K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71575544appendix  summary  of Mr Ks loans with Satsuma
date£ amount
borroweddate repaid
121 December 2013 250 9 May 2014
28 May 2014 220 25 November 2014
325 January 2015 450 15 June 2015
45 June 2015 200 14 October 2015
521 October 2015 400 22 April 2016
619 February 2016 400 17 November 2016
722 June 2016 600 8 June 2017
817 November 2016 500 24 November 2017
917 November 2017 1,000
10 3 January 2018 200
11 12 May 2018 300
Ref: DRN7157554