Complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued applying charges to 
his overdraft when  he was experiencing financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should  have  
realised that Mr Ts overdraft had become unsustainable for him in June 2014 and so it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added  to Mr Ts overdraft from this 
point. Lloyds didnt  agree in full and as Mr T didnt accept Lloyds alternative offer of 
settlement the case was passed to an ombudsman  for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mr Ts overdraft in 
June 2014. By this point, it ought to have been  clear  that Mr T was in no position to 
sustainably repay  what  he owed within a reasonable period of time.
A look at Mr Ts statements leading up to the renewal shows that he hadnt really  had a 
credit balance on his account for a prolonged period. An it also looks  like the funds going 
into the account werent enough to sustain an overdraft limit of £3,000.00. In these 
circumstances, it ought to have been  apparent that Mr T was unlikely to be enough  to repay  
what they owed  within a reasonable period of time with overdraft interest, fees and 
associated charges being added.
Ive seen the payments Lloyds has referred to. The first of these was almost  a year before 
the review highlighted and the second one  which appears to have been the proceeds of a 
life insurance policy   was almost  two years after the review.  The third payment was three 
years after the review and even  then Mr T used some of the proceeds  to meet  other credit  
commitments with Lloyds and the final payment  was five years after the review  and crucially  
after Lloyds agrees it should have  intervened  in June  2018. So Im unsure why Lloyds has 
made reference to this particular payment. In any event, the sporadic nature of all the 
payments referred  to as well as their infrequency dont persuade  me it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude  Mr T was able to repay  his overdraft within  a reasonable period of time.
K821x#15
Ref: DRN7403993So I think that Lloyds  should have stopped providing  the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Mr T with forbearance rather than adding even more  fees and charges on the 
overdraft. All of this means that Lloyds should  have realised Mr T was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using  his overdraft as intended  and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same  terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ts overdraft usage  and instead  continued  
charging in the same  way, I think it failed to act fairly  and reasonably.
Mr T ended  up paying additional  interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing  difficulty. So Im intending to say that Mr T lost out because  of 
what Lloyds did wrong and that it should  put things  right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr T.
Having thought about everything, Im intending to issue  a final decision saying that it would 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr Ts complaint for Lloyds to put things 
right by:
Reworking Mr Ts current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from June  2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr T to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ts credit 
file, it should backdate  this to June 2014.
OR
If the effect  of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr T along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Ts complaint.  Lloyds Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
2
Ref: DRN7403993