K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his home insurance claim for storm damage by Legal  
& General Insurance Limited (L&G).
background
During a severe  storm in January  2018,  Mr Ms property was damaged. One of the five 
chimneys on his roof was blown off. This severed the overhead  mains  electric supply cable 
and caused tile loss to some parts of the roof. As a result of the roof damage, damage was 
also caused to the inside  of the property. Mr M made a claim to L&G and it appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle  the claim.  Under  the policys  emergency cover section, a local contractor 
was appointed to remove the collapsed chimney  and secure a tarpaulin to prevent further 
water penetration. Mr M and his family were moved into alternative accommodation (AA) in 
the form of a local hotel.  
In the coming  weeks, Mr M liaised  with UK Power  Networks (UKPN) in an attempt to get the 
mains electricity restored to the house. That took until the end of June 2018 to happen 
because current regulations required any new supply  to now run underground for which it 
required the consent of the local authority and a neighbour before work could start. 
For two months after the claim, Mr M also liaised with the loss adjuster about the inadequacy 
of the AA the family were  in for such a long period of time:  two hotels rooms for a family of 
four and a large dog. Mr M repeatedly asked if the family could be moved  into a rental 
property but his requests went un-actioned, so he took it upon himself  to try and find a 
property the family could  move to. 
Mr M sent the loss adjuster details of a suitable  the property and a comparison between  the 
cost of renting  it against continuing to remain in the hotel. No action was taken by the loss 
adjuster nor was the cost of the hotel authorised from the end of March  2018. Mr M had to 
meet the bill himself  and chase the loss adjuster  for payment. Mr M also had to chase the 
loss adjuster about paying the family  a disturbance allowance. 
In mid-April, Mr M finally received confirmation from the loss adjuster regarding the familys 
move to rented AA but still awaited confirmation  about furnishing it. All the familys furniture 
remained at the damaged  property and three months after the storm no action had been  
taken by L&G to remove and store their items away from their damp house. No repairs to the 
property had been started and it remained exposed to the elements. Mr M reminded the loss 
adjuster about  the need for a furniture pack for the rental house. 
Mr M also chased L&G about the repairs. He said he understood from L&Gs  contractor that 
it was ready  to start but was just awaiting authorisation of its costs  and scope of works. 
The loss adjuster told Mr M there was no further  budget within  AA for a furniture pack. He 
said he thought  they could use their own furniture. And he said any contents assessed by its 
restorers as damaged  beyond economic  repair (BER)  would form part of a contents claim. 
Mr M removed some  soft furnishings from his home  to use at the AA despite them  being  
damp. 
Mr M continued to push the loss adjuster for a start date for the repairs.  The loss adjuster 
responded to say works were  unable to start without the electricity being restored to the 
Ref: DRN70088652property. The loss adjuster told Mr M that once he had a date for the reconnection works it 
would be able to book the contractor  in to start the reinstatement.  
When UKPN confirmed  the digging would commence on 20 June 2018, Mr M let the loss 
adjuster know. He said hed arrange  for L&Gs drying company to start the drying out on 27 
June. Mr M reminded the loss adjuster that the roof repairs remained outstanding so there  
was little point  in starting drying when a two metre hole remained in the roof. He also said he 
thought strip out works needed to be completed  before drying  out could take place. 
Various chasers from Mr M to this effect  continued  over the following weeks into August 
2018. In the meantime, significant secondary  damage continued to occur to the property  as it 
wasnt water  tight nor could it be dried until it was. L&Gs  drying contractors said that whilst 
the kitchen needed removing prior to drying  commencing, it was unable  to remove the 
granite work tops. Ultimately, Mr M found a company  to remove  the worktops and asked the 
loss adjuster if L&G would be prepared to authorise  the work. Partial repairs to the roof were 
undertaken over a 4 day period in June but it then discovered that the roofing contractors 
had damaged a flat roof when erecting  the scaffolding and that this in turn was allowing 
further water  to ingress.  
Owing to the secondary damage and alleged incorrect scopes, L&G told the loss adjuster it 
wouldnt agree  to the removal of the granite worktops and wanted a surveyor appointed. A 
site visit was arranged  for 10 August with a report requested by 13 August. L&G said itd 
then be in a position to decide how best to progress the claim. A site meeting with all 
relevant parties  was proposed. Mr M had to rearrange his family holiday in order  to attend.
The site meeting took place. Particular  focus was placed by the surveyor on the drying  
companys stated requirement that the kitchen needed to be removed in order to adequately  
dry the property. The drying company told the surveyor that unless the kitchen was removed  
it wouldnt be able to guarantee that the walls  and voids behind the units were  dry. It said if 
the surveyor insisted  the kitchen remained in situ, it would exclude  the kitchen from the 
drying certificate when  it was issued. 
L&G decided the surveyor would project manage the works going forward.  Mr M expressed 
his lack of confidence in L&Gs roofing contractor, particularly as it had caused secondary 
damage to his home by damaging his flat roof. He asked that the works he re-tendered. 
L&G said it needed to understand why the claim had got out of control and asked  the 
surveyor to urgently report on the reasons  for the delay  and to scope the work  outstanding. 
L&G reminded all parties  contractors,  the loss adjuster, and the surveyor   that AA was 
due to expire on 19 October  2018 so urgent action was needed.  It also considered the need  
to make a second claim for other damage  that had occurred internally since the original 
incident in January 2018. L&G noted that thered been no progress with the contents  aspect 
of Mr Ms claim. The loss adjuster advised  that damage to the property had likely been  
exacerbated by the delays and other adverse weather events. 
The loss adjuster proposed that the original damage was covered under the original claim 
and any damage  that could  be attributed  to other  storm events could be set up as a new 
separate accidental  damage claim.  That way the policy  limit for AA could be circumnavigated 
and split over the two claims. 
Mr M asked  L&G to see a copy of the surveyors report so he could understand what was 
being proposed.  L&G agreed  to do so. Mr M also suggested getting his own contractor and 
surveyor involved to scope and cost the works. 
Ref: DRN70088653In the end Mr M complained to L&G. He said that all the internal  damage was either a result  
of the original incident, or caused  by the delays  in progressing the claim. He said he thought  
the kitchen had been damaged and produced a report  from a kitchen fitter explaining why. 
He pointed out that he had expended  an enormous  amount of his own time trying to move 
the claim along.  
L&G didnt formally respond to Mr Ms complaint so he made  a complaint to this service  in 
September 2018. Mr M said that he was unhappy with the delays to his claim and with the 
poor customer service he received. Our investigator  asked L&G to send us its file so we 
could investigate Mr Ms complaint. 
In mid-October 2018, L&G provided a response  to Mr Ms complaint.  It apologised  for the 
delays hed experienced and said the majority of the external works had now been 
completed whilst the extensive  internal works remained to be undertaken. It said the internal 
damage was due to subsequent storm conditions so was registering a second claim. It said 
its contractors had been engaged to arrange completion of the works and its surveyor would 
be project managing  them. It said AA would remain in place because it had logged  a second 
claim. It said it hoped  the current  plan of action was reassuring and it offered to pay Mr M 
compensation of £750. 
Mr M replied to say hed been left with no alternative  to complain to this service because 
L&G hadnt  formally responded to his complaint  within  the required timescale. He said itd 
also failed to: complete  the repairs in a reasonable time; prevent further damage to his 
property; take responsibility for the secondary damage caused through  its inaction; initiate 
drying; correctly manage its appointed contractors and had ignored the recommendations of 
third parties it had engaged (such as its drying  company). Mr M also said L&G had failed to: 
provide a basic level of customer  service;  remove his contents into safe storage; promptly  
arrange payments  (for disturbance allowance and other out of pocket expenses); offer 
settlement for damaged  contents prior to moving  into AA so they had to take damp items 
with them  and to identity early enough their long term AA needs. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think  L&G needed to do any more. 
Mr M disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2020. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld  and that L&G should  pay Mr M compensation  of £1,500 and cancel the 
second claim it had set up against  him, removing any record  of it from any internal and 
external databases.  I made the following provisional  findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive given a reasonably detailed account above of the events leading  up to Mr Ms complaint 
to this service. I havent included everything that went on but Id like to reassure the parties 
that Ive read the file and taken note of all the circumstances. 
It is worth clarifying at this point  that I can only look at what  happened up to the point Mr M 
complained to this service   in other words 7 September  2018.  I can obviously see from the 
file that the claim  dragged on well into 2019 with little or no progress on site. And I can see 
from an email  copied  to this service  that Mr M ultimately instructed solicitors because  of the 
way the claim was being handled. I have no information about whether  the house  has now 
Ref: DRN70088654been repaired or if the family is back home. I can only hope they are. But whilst I sympathise 
with Mr M about the ongoing poor customer service  he received after September 2018, I 
cant take any of that into account when reaching my decision on this complaint.  If Mr M 
wishes to complain about L&Gs actions after that point  he should first complain to it directly  
and then, if he is dissatisfied with the outcome of its investigation, he can bring a second 
complaint to us.
Complaints that are made during a complex claim (that invariably isnt going according to 
plan, hence the complaint) are typically not straightforward. Thats  because  the issues  being 
complained about tend to be ongoing  and unresolved. In an ideal world, consumers would 
wait until the claim  was finalised and then complain  to the insurer (and this service,  if 
necessary). But it is usually out of frustration with what is happening  with the claim which  
drives them  to complain before it is concluded. I can understand that. 
So I have  to decide here whether the £950 L&G has offered to Mr M by way of 
compensation for the shortcomings in its service up to 7 September  2018 is fair and 
reasonable taking all the circumstances  into account. I dont think that it is. Ill explain why. 
Mr M first complained  to L&G in March 2018 about the inadequacy of the AA arrangements  
for a family of four plus their dog and the poor communication he was experiencing. L&G 
looked into this complaint  and upheld it. It wrote to Mr M on 12 April 2018 and said it 
anticipated repairs would take 8-10 weeks and offered him compensation of £200 for the 
delays and poor service  hed experienced.
Then in October  2018, in response  to Mr Ms complaint to this service,  L&G apologised for 
the delays Mr M had experienced and said it noted  the majority of the external work was now 
completed but the extensive internal work (which it decided to attribute to subsequent storm 
conditions) remained. It said the internal  work would be logged  against a second  claim. It 
said its contractors had now arranged  to complete the work  and its surveyor  was project 
managing it. It offered  Mr M compensation of £750  by way of apology. L&G said that as 
Mr Ms complaint was now with this service, he should liaise with us about whether he 
accepted its offer. Mr M didnt accept it.
It is apparent to me from reading  the file that L&G lost control of this claim  very early on. 
Given the severity of the damage to the house  (and the apparent  2 metre hole left in the roof 
by the collapsing chimney) it was always going to take a while  to repair  and reinstate it. Why 
L&G thought  leaving Mr M and his family in two hotel rooms for three months was 
acceptable is unclear to me. Its reasonable to expect  a pro-active loss adjuster to have 
identified that the claim  was a severe  and complex one at the outset, and that the family 
were entitled  to AA in accommodation similar to their own home. There  is no clear  reason I 
can see from reading the file from around  this time why this didnt happen. If the loss 
adjuster had done so then the family  would have  spent much less time in two hotel rooms  
a matter of weeks perhaps whilst a property  was sourced and secured. Mr M said his son 
was studying for his approaching GCSEs  at the time and doing so in a shared hotel room  
was far from adequate.  
Mr M repeatedly chased the loss adjuster, liaised with L&Gs  relocation  company and 
sourced rental properties himself. There seemed to be no urgency on the part of the loss 
adjuster and L&G to assist Mr M in finding  suitable  AA. In fact theres  a note on L&Gs case 
management system that the loss adjuster had stopped  the relocation agent  from searching 
for AA for Mr M on 9 February  2018. The level of service Mr M received from L&G in relation 
to AA was unacceptably  poor. 
Ref: DRN70088655Equally unacceptable was L&Gs failure to provide Mr M with a furniture pack for the rental 
house. The only reason I can see from the file for denying him his request was that the loss 
adjuster/L&G seemed  concerned about  the AA limit on the policy  being  reached. Of course if 
L&G had properly managed the AA request from the outset then its entirely  possible that 
less of the AA budget wouldve been spent  as a rental property is usually cheaper than 
paying for hotel  accommodation. And if the policy limit for AA was close to being exceeded it 
was through no fault (that I can see) of Mr M, or as a natural consequence  of the claim. If 
there is no action on a claim then repairs remain outstanding. If a home is uninhabitable due 
to an insurers inaction then its unreasonable not to provide suitable  AA (and by suitable I 
mean including furniture and beds). Mr M had to take damp and damaged  furniture from his 
house to use in the AA. This was unacceptable. 
Also unacceptable  was that the house  was left in a condition  where  it wasnt  watertight yet 
all Mr Ms contents  remained in situ. As the weeks went  round, the damage  to contents 
exposed to the elements, increased. I can see no attempt  and no valid reason why not  
by L&G to remove Mr Ms contents into storage as soon as possible after the event. If L&G 
had done so I wouldnt think it denying Mr M a furniture pack to be unreasonable  (because 
his items  would have  been protected in storage and could have been moved into the AA). 
But it didnt and in not doing  so it allowed damage  to occur to the contents that was wholly 
avoidable. That there was no electricity at the house  isnt a reason not to remove and protect 
the contents. Theres a comment  on L&Gs case management system from mid-August 2018 
 8 months after the event  that theres  been  no progress with the contents claim.  I think  
thats unreasonable.
Despite a specific request  from our investigator  to L&G,  none  of the loss adjusters reports  
have been provided to us. L&G has provided  the case notes from the loss adjusters case  
management system and Ive counted  reference to at least 7 different reports. If its unwilling  
to provide us with such important information its not unreasonable if I base this decision 
largely upon the account of events  in Mr Ms carefully collated submission and the limited 
information about the claim provided  from L&Gs case  management  system. 
That system largely paints  a picture  of a claim out of control and lacking any form of proper  
management or ownership. Even  in August 2018  where  no doubt prompted  by Mr Ms 
complaint  the decision is taken to instruct the surveyor, get a report done and have the site 
meeting, the focus is on investigating why the claim reserve  has increased tenfold, why there 
have been such  delays and how the secondary damage should be dealt with under a 
second claim. There is mention of obtaining an up to date statement  of works but Ive not 
seen one. 
The state of the claim  can be encapsulated  in a comment made on L&Gs case  management 
system In October 2018. It says: It is not clear  what the current reserve is, what  the position 
with AA is, whether  a second claim is set up and where we are with repairs. So Im unclear 
why L&G told Mr M in its response to his complaint  that the majority of the external repairs  
were completed something he is adamant hadnt happened.
Of course I appreciate that the house was without mains electricity until June 2018  which  in 
itself wouldve made some  but not all  of the repairs and drying difficult  to carry out. I note 
with interest though, Mr Ms comment that roofers dont necessarily need power to tile a roof 
because they use cutters etc. that are petrol  powered. And it was always  entirely possible, if 
power was needed,  for L&G to arrange for a generator to be installed on site. So it seems to 
me that there really is no reasonable excuse why repairing the roof (or at the very minimum 
Ref: DRN70088656putting better protection in place  like a corrugated hat) wasnt  carried  out with all expediency. 
At the time the complaint was made  almost  9 months after the storm  the roof still wasnt  
completely repaired.  And secondary  damage  was extensive but almost entirely avoidable.
If the roof had been repaired as a priority  and the contents stored, the house could then 
have been stripped out. In so far as electricity would be needed to do so, its reasonable to 
think that a generator couldve been  installed to permit the strip out. I think  that the power  
required by dehumidifiers  to dry the house  out may well have needed to have  waited for 
mains electricity to be reconnected but this couldve started  as originally planned  on 
27 June if the roof had been repaired and the strip out was completed. Both of which I think  
it was reasonable  to have expected L&G to have achieved by this point.  
And its reasonable to think, from the available evidence, that the secondary damage has 
nothing to do with subsequent storm events  and everything to do with the failure  to repair  the 
roof as a priority and make sure that the house  was watertight. As Ive said,  the lack of 
mains electricity should not have precluded it. Its unclear from the information available  to 
me whether L&G did ultimately set up a second  claim in order to deal with the secondary 
damage caused by the failure  to repair the house but it if did, that wasnt reasonable.
Thats because I dont  think  its fair for L&G to abdicate responsibility for damage  caused by 
its own failings by setting  up a second claim. Doing so affects Mr Ms claims history  and 
could impact his ability  to change insurers should  he so wish. As the decision to set up the 
second claim was taken before 7 September 2018,  I can consider it within the confines  of 
this complaint. If L&G did set up a second claim it should now cancel it and remove any 
record of it from any internal or external claims databases. 
Mr M has said on a number of occasions that he accepts that a claim of this nature attracts a 
certain degree of distress and inconvenience. Hes said hes not complaining  about  the fact 
he needed to make the claim  in the first place. Mr M has been  clear that he is complaining 
about the avoidable delays, inactivity, and the secondary damage along  with the failure  to 
safely store  his contents and poor customer service.  Ive found  Mr Ms to be calm, polite and 
measured. And Ive found his comments about  the distress and inconvenience he and his 
family have  been  caused by L&G to be entirely plausible.  I have  no doubt that watching his 
home and its contents deteriorate as a consequence  of L&Gs  poor claims management has 
been particularly  upsetting. And it is clear that considerable stress, inconvenience and 
frustration has been suffered  in trying to get the repairs underway. 
When deciding what fair compensation  should be I have to have regard  to this services 
general approach  to such awards. This service isnt here to fine or punish financial 
businesses but to investigate individual consumer complaints.  But Im satisfied that L&Gs 
failings have caused Mr M and his family considerable distress and inconvenience and I 
dont think compensation of £950 is a fair reflection of the extent of the trouble and upset that 
hes been caused. I think compensation of £1,500 is a fairer reflection of the effects and 
upset caused  to Mr M by the shortcomings  in L&Gs claims handling. It is also in line with 
awards this service has made in complaints with similar circumstances. My proposed award  
takes into account everything  that happened up to 7 September  2018.  So, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, and this services approach to awards more 
generally, I think that L&G should  now pay Mr M compensation  of £1,500.
L&G replied  and said it accepted my findings.  Mr M replied and made  the following points:
Ref: DRN70088657He and his family  remained in AA. No reinstatement of his home had been carried 
out by L&G.  
He has made several complaints to L&G but has received no response. 
As a result  of no work being undertaken the house remains exposed to the elements, 
is derelict and uninhabitable.  The house has effectively  been  destroyed  as a result of 
L&Gs neglect and bad practice.  
He sent a link to a video  hed taken in mid-January 2020  showing the state of the 
property. 
He felt further consideration should  be given to the impact  L&Gs  actions had had on 
himself and his family.
The award, though welcomed, fails to alleviate  the financial  burden he has incurred 
as a result of the way the claim has been handled. Specifically Mr M mentioned the 
number of work hours he lost emailing, attending  site meetings, supervising 
contractors and documenting issues  that arose. 
Every day since the storm has been affected by the process of administering  the 
claim. Personal events  have been  disrupted  and travel plans have been abandoned.
Significant psychological strain has been placed  on himself and his family due to the 
avoidable uncertainty generated by the way L&G has handled the claim.
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive viewed the video Mr M has sent and Ive also looked at the photographs he attached  to 
his letter  which showed the property directly  after the storm. 
Mr M says hes made further complaints to L&G that have gone  unanswered. There is a very 
real possibility he will bring  further complaints about  his claim to this service.  So whilst Ive 
viewed the video and have observed  the contrast between the state of the house directly  
after the storm and the state  its in now, I cant take that into account when reaching this 
decision. Thats because  Im only looking at matters up to 7 September  2018. And its 
reasonable to think  given the time that has since passed in comparison to the amount of 
time between the incident and 7 September 2018   that the severe deterioration evident 
from the video  has occurred since then, so isnt something I can look at here.  
Ive got no information before me now about why the claim hasnt progressed so it wouldnt 
be fair for me to make a finding  in that respect. So as I explained in my provisional decision 
 and as I note from his letter in response that Mr M appreciates  this complaint is only 
about what happened up to 7 September 2018. Its with great sympathy that I note Mr Ms 
comment that he and his family remain in AA, that the house is now all but derelict,  that no 
work has been undertaken and that the claim has had a significant impact  on him and his 
family. But insofar as these issues continued beyond 7 September  2018 I cant  take them  
into account here. As far as Mr M was affected before 7 September 2018, Ive already taken 
that into consideration in my provisional  decision when  deciding what  compensation should 
fairly be awarded for L&Gs failings up that point.  
And Im afraid nothing Mr M has said in response  to my provisional decision has persuaded 
me that my provisional award  wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Ref: DRN70088658I know that Mr M is self-employed and I appreciate hes had to spend  far longer working on 
his claim than shouldve  been necessary. But I took the inconvenience he was caused 
before 7 September 2018 into account when reaching my provisional decision. So whilst Ive 
thought about what hes said about  this, it hasnt caused me to change my mind. 
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  and those set out finally here,  I think  
compensation of £1,500 is a fair and reasonable amount  for L&G to pay given the extent of 
the trouble and upset it caused Mr M by handling  his claim badly up to 7 September  2018.  
That amount  is in line with awards  this service has made in similar circumstances and takes 
into account the considerable distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M and his family  by 
L&Gs shortcomings in its claims handling. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Legal & General Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr M compensation of £1,500 for the trouble and upset the shortcomings  in its claims 
handling caused him up to 7 September 2018. Legal  & General Insurance  Limited should 
also cancel any second claim it set up against  Mr M and which  arose out of its own claim 
handling failings.  Any reference to a second  claim should be removed from internal and 
external databases.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7008865