K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called 
MYJAR Limited. Mr D says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial 
problems.
background
We now know that Mr D took out 2 instalment  loans  from MYJAR between  May 2017 and 
October 2017. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ds borrowing  with MYJAR, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  loan number 2 
should be upheld.  MYJAR said it didnt agree with this and that it hadnt done  anything 
wrong so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ds 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
D could repay the loans  he was given, in a sustainable manner.  These checks ought to have 
taken account  of a range  of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might normally be reasonable and proportionate.  However, its also very important to say 
that certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN76251512Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that Mr D 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr D, including 
assessing his income  and expenditure. It says it also carried  out a credit check to assess  his 
creditworthiness. It says that all this information  showed that he would be able to make  the 
loan repayments  he was committing to. Given what Ive said about the length of the lending  
relationship, I think this was fine for Mr Ds first loan which  was for an affordable amount and 
spread out over 6 months. I therefore  dont uphold this part of the complaint.
However, our experience  of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty 
managing their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan. For Mr Ds 
situation, Ive considered  what MYJAR told us it would have seen  from its own checks when 
it granted him loan 2. 
I accept that at this point  in time,  it was still in the early  stages  of a lending  relationship  with 
him. Nevertheless, there  were important differences in the 2 loans that Mr D was given. The 
first was payable over 6 months whilst the second was over 12. Given that these were high-
interest loans designed  mainly  for the short-term, I think this makes a difference.  I think for 
loan 2, for example, the 12 month instalment period meant he was becoming indebted for a 
much longer  period to MYJAR. It therefore  ought  to have carried  more  comprehensive  
financial checks to establish that this loan was sustainable for him over that length of time.  
I think proportionate checks for loan number 2 would have justified things like carefully 
verifying his declared  income and expenditure, looking at his credit history in more detail and 
looking at his bank  statements,  all to check  the lending was sustainable and that Mr D really  
was able to manage  the repayments over the 12 instalments. It doesnt  look to me like 
MYJAR did this level of checking and if it had, it would have seen he was indebted  in other  
ways and frequently gambling  signs that he was having difficulties managing  his financial 
affairs. 
With this information,  I think it would have become obvious that it was irresponsible  to lend 
Mr D any more money. Ive looked at what MYJAR says about  this only being  Mr Ds second  
loan and that hed previously paid off the first one. But I think MYJAR should have 
considered the type of loan and length  of time Mr D was required to pay it back over. If the 
right sorts of checks had been carried out by MYJAR it would have seen the clear risks that 
existed in lending  Mr D more money.  This why Im upholding the loan 2 part of this 
complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr D, MYJAR should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 2;
Ref: DRN76251513B.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C.Pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information MYJAR has recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to this loan.  (If it sold any debt on, it should  ensure this is done).
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr D a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ds complaint and I direct MYJAR Limited to put things right for him as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken  Out Repaid Instalments Amount Monthly Cost
1 5 May 2017 31 October 2017 6 £450.00 £141
2 31 October 2017 6 January 2019 12 £1,100.00 £165
Ref: DRN7625151