K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) treated his 
application for further borrowing, in that they opened  a second loan account rather  than 
refinancing his existing loan.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2020, a copy of which is attached  as it forms part 
of this final decision.
Halifax havent made any further comments  since receiving the provisional  decision. But Mr 
F didnt agree with my provisional findings  and has commented on the provisional  decision in 
detail. He maintains  that he refinanced his original loan, rather  than applied for a second 
loan. And he says Halifax havent  treated him fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything which has been 
submitted by both parties and Ive carefully considered all the points Mr F has made about 
the provisional decision. I realise Mr F will find this disappointing, but I havent seen anything  
which changes my mind about  whats the fair and reasonable  outcome here.  Ill explain why 
below. 
Where I havent commented on a specific point, rule or piece of legislation which Mr F has 
referred to, it isnt because Ive failed to take it into account. Its because, having considered  
the point, I dont think I need  to comment on it specifically  in the decision in order to set out 
my overall findings clearly  and concisely. 
Mr F has also asked  me to obtain and listen to various call recordings. Hes concerned that 
not all his conversations have  been recorded  and noted by Halifax and that, where there  are 
notes, they dont always reflect his recollection of the full conversation.  I understand his 
concern. But, ultimately, Im looking at what Halifax did as a result of the calls and whether 
they acted fairly. I havent listened  to the calls here because Ive been able to reach  a 
decision which I think is fair on the basis of the paperwork provided by the parties  (including 
Mr Fs written submissions about the content of the calls) and the wider surrounding 
circumstances here.
the second loan
Mr F says that the second loan agreement isnt enforceable as its not signed  by him. Its 
correct that the document doesnt contain his handwritten signature. But I wouldnt expect it 
to because Mr F completed the loan application online. The application  was approved  
electronically and signed electronically.  The loan agreement  states  that Mr Fs internet 
banking password acted as his electronic signature. And I note from the internet event log 
that the signature was entered. So, Im satisfied that Mr F accepted the terms of the second  
loan agreement and is bound by them.
Mr F now says that he cant see any evidence of the second loan monies  having  been paid 
out. The internet  event  log shows that the payment  was transferred. Mr F doesnt deny 
receiving the funds and it has never been his position in the complaint to date that he didnt 
Ref: DRN76804702receive the loan advance. Hes also acknowledged receipt of the loan monies  by making  
repayments to the loan account. So, Im satisfied that the loan advance  was paid out to Mr F 
and received by him.
Mr F doesnt accept my provisional  finding that he made repayments to the second loan 
account. He says that the first repayment  was taken without his knowledge from an account  
which hed previously instructed Halifax to close.  (That issue was subsequently resolved 
between Mr F and Halifax.) And that the subsequent  repayments  were made pursuant to the 
settlement offer which  hed put to Halifax. But this doesnt change my mind. Regardless  of 
the motivation  behind  Mr Fs repayments, the fact remains  that he borrowed £1,000  from 
Halifax and was obliged  to repay  it by monthly  instalments,  which he did on numerous  
occasions.
Mr F accepts that Halifax didnt charge him any fees for setting up the second  loan and that 
the interest rate was lower than the rate applied to the original loan. But he doesnt accept 
my findings  that he hasnt  been disadvantaged here.  I havent seen any evidence  that Mr F 
is worse off as a result of the additional  borrowing being structured as a new loan rather  than 
a refinancing of the original loan. So Im still not persuaded that there  has been any 
detriment to Mr F in this respect. In any event, he accepted the terms of the new loan.
Mr F says that Halifax wrongly informed  him that he would have to attend  a branch to 
consolidate the two loans.  He says this could have  been done over the phone, so Halifax 
gave him the wrong information and didnt treat him fairly. Its unfortunate if Mr F was given 
the wrong information about this. But Im not going  to ask Halifax  to do anything.  They 
offered Mr F the option of applying  to consolidate  the loans from early on in this complaint. If 
Mr F would prefer  to do that over the phone, thats a matter  for him. But, as far as Im aware, 
he hasnt done  so to date,  either in person or by phone so I dont think this caused him any 
material distress  or inconvenience.
deferral of loan payment
In relation to the deferral of the loan payment, Mr F suggests that Halifax  should  have 
presented other options to him. Clearly that would have been more  satisfactory  from Mr Fs 
point of view.  But Mr F has explained that this was a one-off request in relation to a short-
term issue and he didnt  wish to discuss it with Halifaxs  Money  Management Team.  In the 
circumstances, and given  the timing of Mr Fs request, I wouldnt have expected  Halifax  to 
do more. So I dont  think they acted unfairly.
request to change the monthly  repayment  date
I realise Mr F feels strongly about  this issue. Ive considered  all his arguments, but I still dont 
think Halifax acted unfairly.  I dont find that they were under any obligation to change the 
date. And I havent seen  any evidence that Mr F discussed the reasons for his request  with 
Halifax to any great  extent. Ive looked  at the evidence again and I note that Mr F was put 
through to the Money Management Team about  this issue.  But Halifaxs  notes say that he 
declined to go through the customer verification process and the call was disconnected. So, I 
dont find that Halifax acted unfairly  in this respect.
the debt is disputed
Mr F doesnt accept that Halifax are entitled  to pursue him for the debt or record adverse 
entries on his credit  file, because the debt is in dispute. I realise that Mr F doesnt think he 
Ref: DRN76804703should pay the amount which Halifax say is due. But Ive taken into account what  the 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) says about this issue.  And I dont think  the debt is 
disputed in the sense envisaged by CONC. So I dont think  Halifax  have acted unfairly by 
taking steps in relation to the debt.
Mr F has commented  that the original loan is recorded on Halifaxs records  as having been 
closed in November  2019. He says that shows the loan account is settled, meaning Halifax 
shouldnt be pursuing  it further. The loan was defaulted in or around November 2019, so the 
account was closed and passed  to Halifaxs Recoveries department. I find that the note 
reflects this and has no bearing on the existence  of the debt or Halifaxs  ability to pursue it.
Mr F maintains that Halifax accepted his settlement offer.  He says the offer was made  under  
Part 36 of the Civil Procedure Rules and is binding on Halifax.  The Financial Ombudsman  
Service is an alternative to the courts and, in making this decision,  Im not limited to the 
position a court might reach. But I dont find that Halifax  accepted or are bound by Mr Fs 
settlement proposal.  I dont think they can be deemed to have accepted by their silence. 
And, in any event, they expressly rejected the offer later on.
Mr F says that, alternatively,  Halifax  should  have sent him an early settlement figure. He 
says that his settlement proposal, and subsequent  letters, were  offers  to settle  the loan 
agreements early. While the letters may have indicated  Mr Fs desire to settle  the loans, 
this was in the sense  of wanting  to negotiate  a compromised amount with Halifax.  I dont find 
that Mr F was seeking an early settlement figure  in the sense  that he wanted to pay off 
everything that was outstanding at that date, so as to clear all his obligations early.  So, I 
dont think Halifax have  done anything wrong in this respect.
Impact on Mr Fs credit file
Mr F says there are errors on his credit  file. I cant see that there have been mistakes  in the 
reporting of the loans.  In any event, I dont find that any discrepancies  over dates  (as 
described by Mr F) have  caused him specific detriment,  given  the overall picture here and 
his own statement that he hasnt made  any payments  since  July 2019.  
vulnerabilities and fair treatment
Mr F strongly disagrees  with my provisional findings around his vulnerability and fair 
treatment. Having considered everything  again, I still dont think  that Halifax treated Mr F 
unfairly here,  for the reasons explained above  and in my provisional decision. 
In relation to his vulnerabilities, Mr F has referred  to a letter from Halifax about  appointment  
of the debt collection agency.  The timing  he describes is unfortunate, but Im satisfied that 
Halifax took steps to recall Mr Fs account  as soon  as he raised  the issue of his 
vulnerabilities in January 2020  and before  the date of the letter hes referred to. 
There was a short delay  between the initial recall  request and the account  actually coming  
back to Halifax and it appears some correspondence may have been sent in that window. 
That wasnt  ideal. But I havent seen  anything which suggests Halifax acted unreasonably 
here or caused  any significant delay in retrieving the account. So Im not going to ask them 
to do anything. I understand that Mr F is unhappy  about the actions of Halifaxs agent. That 
complaint is being  looked  at separately, so Im not making any findings about the agency 
here.
Ref: DRN76804704my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76804705copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr F complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  treated his application  for 
further borrowing, in that they opened a second loan account rather than refinancing his existing  loan.
background
Mr F had an existing  Halifax loan. In November  2018, he wanted to borrow a further £1,000 and 
applied for this using the Halifax app. He says he wanted to add the new borrowing to the existing 
loan. But he says that, without his knowledge or agreement, Halifax  set up a new, separate loan 
account for the additional £1,000. So he now has two loan accounts  with Halifax. 
Mr F says he clicked on the option to borrow more. He says he thought that, by doing  this, he would 
be adding to the original loan. He says it wasnt clear to him that he was taking out a second  loan. 
And that, if it had been clear,  he wouldnt  have accepted the loan.  Mr F says hes asked  Halifax to 
consolidate the two loans and theyve refused.
When Mr F complained to Halifax about this, they didnt uphold the complaint. They  said they hadnt 
made a mistake by opening a new loan account.  They said that Mr F had the opportunity to note that 
what was being offered was a new loan before he accepted  it. But they said their Underwriting 
department would be able consider a new application to merge the two loans. This could  result in a 
credit search  being carried out.
Mr F wasnt happy with Halifaxs  response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He wants 
Halifax to consolidate the two loans  without any adverse consequences for him. He wants  any 
adverse entries to be removed  from his credit file and he is asking for some compensation from 
Halifax.
Our investigator thought that Halifax had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do any more. But Mr F 
didnt agree,  and asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mr F has raised a number of issues as part of this complaint. Ive summarised here what  he says are 
the key areas. Mr F says that:
the new borrowing in November 2018 should have been  added to the existing loan, rather  
than a second loan account being opened;
the onus is on Halifax to show  that he applied for the second loan as he disputes that it was 
ever taken out;
Halifax refused to defer a loan payment when he asked them  to do so;
Halifax refused to change  the payment date on his loan accounts;
Halifax didnt seek to identify the underlying reasons why he wished to change the payment 
dates;
Halifax are pursuing him for a debt which is disputed;
Halifax shouldnt have registered a default on his credit file;
Halifax havent treated  him fairly by passing his case to a debt management company;
Halifax havent treated  him appropriately since becoming aware  of his vulnerabilities;  and
Halifax havent had regard to his interests or treated him fairly.
 
Ill consider each of these  issues below.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Mr F feels  strongly about  his complaint  and has provided a good deal 
of information and raised a number of points in addition  to those  itemised above for me to consider.  I 
Ref: DRN76804706can assure him Ive taken them all into account in reaching my decision. But, in writing this decision, 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points. Ill look at each  of these  in turn below.
opening of the second loan account
Mr F says that, when he applied for the borrowing in November 2018,  he selected the option to 
refinance his existing  loan, rather than take out a second loan. I realise Mr F feels  strongly  about  this. 
But I havent  seen any evidence that the refinancing option was selected.  
Mr F says it wasnt clear  that Halifax  were  treating his application as a request for a new loan. But, 
even if it wasnt clear at the outset, I think its fair to say it should have become  apparent during the 
application process.  For example, the proposed monthly repayment for the new borrowing was 
significantly less than the monthly payment on Mr Fs existing loan. I think that should  have alerted Mr 
F to the fact that Halifax  was treating the new borrowing separately.  
But, even if the treatment  of the new borrowing wasnt clear during the application  process, I think  it 
was clear from the loan documents which Mr F had sight of before accepting  the loan. And I note that, 
under the terms  of the loan agreement,  Mr F had the right to withdraw  from it within two weeks from 
the day after the agreement  if he wasnt happy. So, even  if Mr F didnt realise how the loan had been  
set up until afterwards,  he had the opportunity  to withdraw from the arrangement. 
Taking everything into account, I dont  find that Halifax did anything wrong by creating a second  loan 
account. 
Mr F says the second loan was a more expensive  option  for him than topping up the original loan. I 
havent seen any evidence thats the case. No fees were charged for setting up the second loan. And 
the interest rate on the second  loan is lower than that on the original loan. So, from the information  
available to me, I cant conclude  that Mr F has been  disadvantaged  by the borrowing  being set up in 
the way it was, or that Halifax have acted unfairly  in this respect.
In any event, Halifax have said theyll consider merging  the two loans if Mr F makes an application to 
do this. I think  thats a fair approach so I dont  intend  to ask Halifax to do more.
status of the second loan
Mr F disputes taking out the second loan.  But the information Ive seen confirms that Mr F applied  to 
Halifax to borrow money, that Halifax offered to lend him the money in the form of a second loan, that 
Mr F agreed  to the terms of the second loan, accepted the loan advance  and has since made 
repayments to the loan account. So Im satisfied that the second  loan was taken out.
deferral of loan payment
Mr F complains that Halifax didnt agree to his request  to defer  a payment in early  2019. Halifax said 
they couldnt change the date because Mr Fs request was made too close to the payment due date. 
Mr F made  the request  the day before payment was due. So I dont think  Halifaxs response was 
unreasonable.
request to change the monthly repayment date
Mr F asked Halifax if he could change the repayment date of his loans. He says that Halifax refused 
to do this because his accounts were in arrears.  But he says they werent  in arrears at the time. From  
the information available to me, Im satisfied that a payment had been missed on the second loan 
account at the time Mr F asked to change the payment date. I think  it was reasonable  for Halifax to 
consider the status of both loan accounts when considering Mr Fs request. And, as a payment had 
been missed  on one of the accounts,  I dont  think  Halifaxs response was unreasonable  or that they 
acted unfairly  in this respect.
Ref: DRN76804707reasons for wanting to change the payment date
Mr F says that Halifax didnt look into why he wanted to change the payment dates on the loans. 
When Mr F contacted Halifax about the date change, they offered to put him through  to their Money 
Management Team, but Mr F declined. And I cant see that he gave Halifax any information at the 
time which I think they needed to act on. So I wouldnt  expect them  to have done more at that time.
the debt is disputed
Mr F says that, by seeking  payment of the outstanding loan balances,  Halifax are pursuing  him for a 
debt which is in dispute. As I explained  above,  Im satisfied that Mr F agreed to the terms of the 
second loan. And he doesnt dispute that he agreed to the terms of the original loan.
During the course of his complaint, Mr F made a settlement proposal  to Halifax. Essentially, he 
offered to repay the amounts  borrowed  on both his loans but not the interest.  Mr F says that Halifax 
didnt respond to his settlement offer within  the timescale hed set. He says that, by their lack of 
response, they have accepted his offer. So he says theyve given up their rights to pursue  him for any 
sums over and above what he offered to pay. 
I dont find that Halifax accepted Mr Fs offer, by their silence or otherwise. I understand that Mr F 
feels strongly about this issue. But Im satisfied that the loans exist and that Halifax  are entitled to 
recover the outstanding sums on the loan accounts  in line with their terms and conditions.
Impact on Mr Fs credit file
Mr F says that Halifax shouldnt have registered a default  on his credit file because  the debt is 
disputed. He refers to the Consumer Credit sourcebook. As I explained above,  Im satisfied that the 
loan, and therefore the debt,  exists.  So Halifax  are entitled to take steps in relation to it and to report 
on it to the credit reference agencies. Theyre required to report  accurately  on the status  of both 
loans. I realise  Mr F is unhappy about the adverse entries on his credit file. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest the entries are inaccurate. So I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong in 
this respect and Im not planning to ask them to amend the entries.
transfer to the debt management company
Mr F isnt happy that his accounts were transferred to a debt management company. He says this 
wasnt fair treatment, particularly  as he is a vulnerable  customer. I understand that the original loan 
account was transferred  to a debt collection agency. The terms and conditions of the loan allow 
Halifax to do this. So I dont  think they acted unfairly  when they did so. However, I note that Halifax  
have brought  the account back in-house  since becoming  aware of Mr Fs vulnerabilities.  Both 
accounts are now being dealt with by Halifaxs Customer Priority Team, which is a specialist 
department for customers with vulnerabilities. I think this is a fair approach.
Mr Fs vulnerabilities
Mr F says that Halifax failed to mark him as a vulnerable  customer and treat him as such when he first 
made them  aware  of his circumstances. He says they only chose to do so later on. From the 
information available  to me, it appears that the first time Mr F told Halifax of his vulnerabilities was in 
October 2019. At that time, he agreed with Halifax  that his account  wouldnt  be referred  to the 
Customer Priority Team.  But, in January 2020,  Mr F raised the issue of his vulnerabilities with Halifax 
again. At that stage, they recalled the original account from the debt collection agency and referred  
both accounts to their Customer Priority Team. I think that was a reasonable approach, and Im 
satisfied that Halifax took these steps promptly once they were made aware of the difficulties Mr F 
was facing.  From  the information  available  to me, I dont  think Halifax had any reason to do this 
before January 2020.
fair treatment
Ref: DRN76804708I realise Mr F feels very strongly that Halifax havent treated him fairly. But, from my review of all the 
available information  and consideration of all the points Mr F has raised, I dont find that Halifax have 
acted unfairly  here.  So, although I know Mr F will find this disappointing, Im not planning  to ask them 
to do anything.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7680470