K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that when AXA PPP Healthcare Limited took over his private medical 
insurance policy, it misled him into believing  he would  still covered for treatment at the same 
hospitals as before.
background
Mr W held a private medical insurance (PMI)  policy with a particular insurer. In 2015, the 
insurer sold its PMI business  to AXA PPP and so when the policy  renewed in 2016, Mr Ws 
cover switched to AXA PPP.
In 2018, Mr W required  treatment for a long-standing  heart condition.  He tried to claim for 
this under his policy but found  he was fully covered to attend only certain approved  hospitals 
in his area and that none of these offered the specialist care he required. AXA PPP 
eventually agreed  to allow him to receive treatment  at a hospital  which  wasnt on the 
approved list and to cover  the cost in full. However,  it refused to commit to allowing this in 
future.
Mr W was unhappy at AXA PPPs stance.  He said his previous insurer  had fully covered him 
for treatment at the hospital in question. He considered  AXA PPP had misled  him at the time 
it took over the cover  into believing that this wouldnt change. He was concerned  that he 
might need  further  heart treatment which couldnt  be carried out by an approved hospital in 
his area and therefore considered that AXA PPP should guarantee to offer full cover  in future 
at the hospital in question.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, AXA 
PPP hadnt  misled  Mr W into thinking it was offering identical  cover to his previous insurer 
and wasnt obliged to offer cover outside  the terms of the policy. 
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He considered the information  sent to him at 
the time of the switch implied that the new cover would be at least as good as before. He 
explained that if he were to need heart treatment in future and was forced to use an 
alternative hospital with inadequate facilities, it could have  fatal consequences. This was 
why he was anxious to get AXA PPPs confirmation it would continue to provide full cover at 
his preferred hospital.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
In 2015, Mr Ws previous insurer decided to withdraw from the PMI market. It wrote to Mr W 
to explain it had sold its PMI business to AXA PPP. It said that AXA PPP would offer 
continued cover without further  medical  underwriting and that further  details would be 
provided when  the policy  was due for renewal  in 2016.
In 2016, AXA PPP wrote to Mr W to invite him to renew his policy. It explained  it was seeking 
to make the transfer  as smooth as possible and that it had chosen the best match  for his 
Ref: DRN70257482cover from its range  of products. It enclosed  various pieces of information which it invited 
Mr W to read before  deciding whether to go ahead  with the cover.
One of the pieces of information  was a document outlining the key differences between 
Mr Ws old policy and the new AXA PPP policy. This referred to hospital  access  and stated 
there may be a few differences to the hospitals available  to you on your new plan. A 
separate document explained  where  Mr W could see a list of hospitals covered by his plan.
Im satisfied that this adequately drew Mr Ws attention to the fact that the hospitals at which  
he was covered to receive treatment under his previous  policy were not necessarily the 
same as those at which he would be covered under his new policy.  It was up to Mr W to 
explore this further if he wished.
Mr W has pointed  to the fact that the key differences document  stated that the new policy 
would provide essentially  the same benefits as [the old policy] and in some cases  they are 
better. He says he inferred from this that the benefits under his new policy  would be the 
same as before or better.  However, I dont think essentially the same means identical. It 
means the cover is largely similar and I think this is a fair description. As Ive explained, the 
difference in hospitals was adequately brought to Mr Ws attention.  I therefore  consider that 
the policy was sold fairly  and AXA PPP didnt  mislead Mr W as to the extent of cover.
It is unfortunate that Mr Ws preferred hospital  isnt on AXA PPPs  approved list. This means 
that under  the terms of the policy AXA PPP is obliged  to pay only 60% of the charges it 
would normally cover. However,  I cant reasonably  say that this is unfair.
For Mr Ws recent heart treatment, in view of the lack of a nearby hospital  which  could 
provide the facilities  for this, AXA PPP agreed to provide full cover at Mr Ws preferred 
hospital. I consider  this was fair.
AXA PPP has said that as things stand, it will continue to provide full cover for Mr W to use 
his preferred hospital should he need heart treatment. But because it doesnt  know  how 
things might change,  it cant  guarantee that this will always be the case. While I appreciate  
that this may be unsettling  for Mr W, I think AXA PPPs position is reasonable. AXA PPP 
may revise its approved hospital  list from time to time, and hospitals may change  the 
facilities they have  available. I cant reasonably tell AXA PPP that it must guarantee to offer 
Mr W future  cover which is outside the terms of his policy, particularly if there may be a 
suitable alternative hospital within reasonable distance which  is on AXA PPPs approved  list.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7025748