K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of the car which was supplied to her by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In March 2010 Ms M entered into an agreement with VWFS for a new car. In April 2013  she 
took out new finance with VWFS for the same  car. In December 2015 she received a letter 
informing her that her car was impacted by a Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)  emissions  software. In 
the letter, she was offered  a software  update. 
The car had the software update in 2017.  However, Ms Ms agreement had already finished 
by the time the car had the software  update. Initially it was not clear if Ms M was still in 
possession of the car at this point. Neither is it clear if following this update  the car 
performed differently. Rather, it seems  that the letter led her to believe that the car had a 
fault. She told us she wanted  compensation for this. She complained to VWFS but got no 
response, so she came  to us.
Once the complaint was with us we contacted VWFS.  It told us its position. VWFS said the 
car didnt  have a fault. It further clarified  its stance by saying, the NOx issue relates  to the 
fact that software  was fitted in certain diesel vehicles. It confirmed  the software was present 
in the car it supplied  to Ms M. It also said the software operated so that when the vehicles 
were experiencing test conditions, the characteristics of NOx were affected.  It is important to 
understand that this effect occurred  when the vehicles were  experiencing test conditions; 
NOx emissions (and other  emissions, including carbon  dioxide (CO2) emissions)  in usual 
driving conditions  have not been affected  by this issue. The NOx issue has no impact on the 
safety or roadworthiness  of your vehicle.
VWFS rejected Ms Ms request for compensation. It said that in our view,  you are not 
entitled to compensation as a result  of this NOx issue. Whilst I understand you are 
disappointed, the fact remains that your vehicle is of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and 
as described at the point of sale despite  this NOx issue.  This issue  has not caused you any 
loss or damage for which you should  receive compensation.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, although he could see the car did have  the relevant software fitted  when supplied.  
He didnt agree that this, by itself,  was enough  to say VWFS ought to compensate Ms M.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, but, Ms M did not. In short,  she 
repeated that her car did have the NOx software  in it when supplied. She told us she no 
longer had the car. Further, she no longer owned the car when the software update 
happened.
Ms M asked that her complaint be passed  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71852732In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
Further, Ms M and VWFS disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply 
which by itself meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some  of it is here),  I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so we can consider  
a complaint relating to it. VWFS  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality.
The relevant  law at the time Ms M entered into her agreements said that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that goods would be of satisfactory quality.
To be considered to be of satisfactory quality, the goods would need to meet  the standard  
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances
Ms M has provided  us with extremely limited information about  the nature of her complaint. 
She tells us her car had the NOx emissions  software. That is agreed by both parties. But 
where they part company is when she says this means the car had a fault. She does  not say 
why she thinks this is a fault although  we have asked her to expand  on her stance on 
several occasions.  In  the circumstances, I think she has been  given a fair opportunity to 
provide any further  information or arguments on which she wants to rely. Presumably her 
stance is that what  she calls the fault,  made  her car not of satisfactory  quality.
VWFS tells us that the software  had no impact on the performance of the car. Ms M hasnt 
suggested that she has evidence that shows this is not so. VWFS  is clear  that despite the 
presence of the software the car was fit for purpose  at the time of sale. Ms M has not put 
forward any information to show this is not correct.   VWFS suggests  that no description of 
the car made  any reference to anything  to do with NOx emissions. Again, Ms M hasnt said 
this is incorrect. Ms M hasnt told us that the software had an impact on the price  of the car 
or the sale price  she might have achieved when she disposed  of the car.  I have so very little 
to go on here it is hard to discern what other relevant circumstances Ms M might be resting 
her complaint on, if any.
In these circumstances, I dont agree that I have  any fair or reasonable basis  to conclude  
that the mere  presence of the software in the car, by itself, means the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. It follows I dont have any proper basis for telling VWFS it must 
compensate her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Ref: DRN71852733Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185273