K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund six retail transactions  made with his 
debit card, totalling £9,921.48. Mr M says he never  received the card or the Personal 
Identification Number (PIN), and did not make or authorise these payments.
what happened
In 2006, Mr M opened a current  account with HSBC.  HSBC say he didnt use the account 
significantly for around 10 years.
Between 22 September and 16 October  2017, over £13,000 was credited to the account  
through cash deposits and bank transfers.
On 27 September  2017, Mr M ordered  a new debit card. This is the card that was used for 
the disputed transactions.
On 4 October and 11 October 2017, someone called HSBC and identified  themselves as 
Mr M. They confirmed they had got the card but needed a new PIN. Mr M says he did not 
make these calls. A further call was made on 12 October  2017  ordering a new PIN  this 
was the last time a new PIN was ordered.
The disputed transactions took place between 12 October and 17 October 2017. The vast 
majority of the money was spent  at a pawnbroker. The rest were relatively small retail 
payments.
Mr M reported the transactions on 17 October  2017, saying he checked  his balance in a 
branch. He said he never got the card or PIN. He pointed out that HSBC had recorded one 
digit of his postcode wrong.  He said he only lived with his partner, no-one else had access  to 
his property, and his post got delivered directly to his property through the door. He said he 
started using the account after 10 years in order to give his card to family members who 
would be visiting.
HSBC temporarily refunded the payments in dispute while they investigated. Mr M 
transferred out those  temporary refunds almost straight  away,  saying he was concerned  
about further fraud. 
HSBC held Mr M liable  for the disputed payments. They said:
they sent the card and PIN from different locations at different times
Mr M had confirmed  hed received the card on one of his phone  calls
they were satisfied that it was Mr M who made those  calls
the pattern  of spending was not typical of a fraudster and was done  relatively  slowly
the postcode having  one wrong digit would  not have made a difference
They closed his account and re-debited the temporary refunds, leaving a significant  debt.
Mr M came to our service.  He later asked for CCTV footage. Our investigator  thought  it was 
most likely Mr M authorised these payments,  because:
there was no evidence the large  credits to the account were genuine, and Mr Ms 
explanation for why he received  them was not plausible. For instance,  he said one 
payment was for his salary, but he also said he was self-employed rather than 
employed, and the payment reference said it was a tax refund
Ref: DRN72149492the rest of Mr Ms address was recorded  correctly, including  the property number and 
road, so the card and PIN wouldve  still gone  to his address
the card and PIN were sent separately  and its unlikely that a fraudster was able to 
intercept all of the multiple PIN requests
Mr M confirmed hed received the card over the phone, and the investigator was 
satisfied from the details the caller provided and their voice that that was Mr M.
The person  who called HSBC carried out administration for Mr M such  as correcting 
his postcode, which not something  a fraudster  was likely to do
CCTV footage  wouldnt still be available after so much time. Further,  it would  only 
show what the person  making  the transactions looked like, and not whether theyd 
been given permission by Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying he never confirmed hed received the 
card. He felt the bank hadnt made  enough  effort to make sure he got his card and PIN. So 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, HSBC can hold Mr M liable for the payments in dispute  if the evidence  suggests 
that its most  likely  he made  them himself  or authorised someone else to make them on his 
behalf.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  making  the payments used 
Mr Ms genuine card and PIN. This is not enough,  on its own, for HSBC to hold him liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests that its most likely Mr M 
consented to the payments taking place.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mr M authorised the transactions. This is 
because:
The card and PIN were sent to the correct property number, road name and town.  
The postcode  was correct aside from one digit. This was unlikely to have made a 
difference. And Mr M told HSBC hed received the other correspondence they sent 
before the address was corrected. So its most  likely the card and PIN arrived at 
Mr Ms address.
The card and PIN were sent separately, at different times. And HSBC say they were  
sent from different  locations. Mr M said only he and his wife had access  to his post. 
And the PIN was requested multiple  times, with the previous PIN becoming invalid 
each time. The person  who made  the disputed transactions consistently used the 
right PIN. It seems  very unlikely that someone was able to access Mr Ms post 
without his permission  and intercept both the card and later the correct PIN.
Ref: DRN72149493This account had not been  used  regularly for a long time. The credits  into the 
account were made just before,  or during, the period of the disputed transactions.  So 
it seems plausible  that they were made  in order to fund the disputed  transactions. 
Mr Ms explanation of where  the credits came from, and why he made them,  has 
been inconsistent  and does not seem very plausible.
Mr Ms telephone banking was unlocked by someone who went  to an HSBC  branch. 
In order to unlock  telephone banking  the branch staff had to check  his ID. So the 
person who did this had a form of Mr Ms ID that was accepted  as genuine.  And that 
person wouldve had to look like any photo on the ID.
Ive listened  to the calls on 4 October  and 11 October 2017, where a man confirmed 
he had received the card. Ive also listened to the calls where Mr M reported  and 
discussed the disputed transactions. It sounds like these were made by the same  
man. And the call on 4 October  was made  using  Mr Ms mobile phone.
In order to pass security on 4 October  and 11 October 2017, the man calling 
provided Mr Ms correct full name; address; date of birth;  email address; mobile 
number; digits from his passcode; the number of accounts  he held with HSBC;  and 
the industry he worked in when he opened the account 11 years prior. He checked 
whether a transfer Mr M was expecting had arrived yet, and he corrected  the 
postcode on file.
Given what this person knew about  Mr M; and that he had access to Mr Ms mobile; 
and the way he was running Mr Ms account; and him sounding like Mr M; I am 
satisfied, on the balance of the available evidence,  that its more  likely than not that 
this person was Mr M. 
On the call of 11 October 2017, Mr M said hed received the card.  He confirmed this 
by reading out the full 16-digit card number, which  was only available if he had 
indeed got the card. So I also think that Mr M received his debit card.
The payments  were made using that same  genuine card, and the correct PIN. I think  
Mr M did receive the card, and the PIN was sent to the same address, so I think  its 
most likely that Mr M made the payments or authorised someone else to make them.
I agree  with our investigator that the CCTV footage is unlikely to still be available, 
and unlikely to be helpful. It would show what the person making  the payments 
looked like, but not whether they had been given permission by Mr M or not. As 
I explained above, I think its most likely  that Mr M received the card and PIN and 
authorised the payments. And so I think its most likely that whoever used the card 
and PIN did so with Mr Ms permission,  even if that wasnt Mr M himself.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair for HSBC to refuse  a refund because,  overall, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr M made or authorised the transactions  that are in 
dispute. It follows that I also think it is fair for HSBC  to hold Mr M liable for the debt on the 
account.
Ref: DRN72149494my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7214949