K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he wasnt told about the possible  closure  of his credit card account with 
MBNA Limited, and he didnt find out about  it until after the account  had been closed. Mr T 
says he wants the account reactivated and in return hell use the account  in order to keep it 
active. Mr T also complains that the letters he received from MBNA when he made  his 
complaint are confusing.
background
In April 2018, MBNA say they sent Mr T a use it or lose it letter due to the account being 
dormant since December  2015. They say the letter  informed Mr T that if he didnt use the 
account within a certain  timeframe,  it would be closed. As a result  of the account not being 
used, MBNA  closed it in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She said MBNA hadnt  done anything wrong in 
closing the account as this was in line with the accounts terms and conditions.  She also said 
she was satisfied a letter was sent informing  Mr T of the possible closure if he didnt use the 
account within a certain  timeframe.  
Mr T disagreed. In summary  he said, MBNA  should have communicated the potential  
closure in a different format instead of just a letter  as he says the majority of his 
communication with MBNA is electronic. He said the account terms and conditions dont 
specify in what format  the notice of closure  will be given and hes also unhappy  MBNA  have  
since changed their communication method when letting customers know about account 
closures. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA have  sent us a copy of the accounts  terms and conditions  from around the time the 
account was closed, which Ive looked  at. They say: If you are not using  your account and 
there is no balance  on your account,  we may close your account by giving you two months'  
prior notice. MBNA have sent us a copy of some of Mr Ts monthly  credit  card statements 
from 2015 to 2017  which show the last activity on the account by Mr T was in December 
2015.
MBNA havent been able to send us a copy of Mr Ts use it or lose it letter. But they have  
given us a copy  of a sample letter that they say wouldve been sent to Mr T. 
The letter said Mr T needed to make a transaction by a certain date in order  to keep the 
account open. It also explained if a transaction wasnt made by this date,  the account would 
be closed.
Mr T says he didn't receive the letter so he wasn't aware he needed to use the account 
before July 2018. MBNA have sent a copy of their internal system notes showing the date 
the letter was sent to Mr T. And theyve also sent us a screenshot showing the address they 
hold for Mr T on their systems. Based on this, Im satisfied MBNA sent the letter  to Mr T.
Ref: DRN78189922So for these reasons, I cant say MBNA did anything wrong  and I dont think they acted 
unfairly by closing the account. The account terms and conditions provided for this and, 
generally, I dont find MBNAs decision to close an account  which  hadnt been  used  for such 
a long time unreasonable.
Mr T says hes unhappy MBNA  didnt  try other forms of communication  to let him know  about 
the potential account closure. He also says the account terms and conditions  dont specify 
how the account closure will be communicated. 
Whilst the account terms and conditions dont  specify the format  that the potential  account 
closure will be communicated in, MBNA say its not always  appropriate  for them  to 
communicate with their customers via secure  messaging. Mr T hadnt used his account for 
more than two years,  so I can see why MBNA might have thought a letter would be more  
likely to alert him to the possible account  closure than, for example, a message which  he 
would have had to log into online banking to read. So I dont think MBNA did anything  wrong  
by choosing to send Mr T a letter. I have  in mind as well that they followed Mr Ts preferred  
method of receiving updates - and I dont think MBNA needed to write  more than once to Mr 
T about  the account closure.
I note Mr Ts comment that MBNA have acknowledged there is a better way for them to 
communicate account closures with their customers.  However,  MBNA  havent told us theyve 
changed the way they communicate account closures and its their choice whether they wish 
to change their communication method following feedback. MBNA have confirmed the online 
message Mr T received was in relation to the online usage of his other  account  and it wasnt 
a message to tell him they were going  to close his account.
I appreciate there may have been  some confusion with the letters MBNA sent to Mr T when 
he made his complaint. However, they acknowledged this and apologised to Mr T in one of 
their letters to him. Im satisfied MBNA  clarified any confusion caused to Mr T, so I wont  be 
ordering them to do anything more. MBNA  have invited Mr T to apply for a new account if he 
wishes to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7818992