K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains about a treatment package that was financed through  a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with etika Finance UK Limited  (trading  as Paybreak).
background
Ms C entered into a contract with a supplier Ill call E in July 2017. The invoice provided to 
Ms C at the time stated that she would be given the following:
A VIP package of 14 facial  treatments,  four diagnostics, and a facial kit 
A facial toning device
A body  kit
A VIP package of 12 body treatments
The total cost of the package came to £4,200. Ms C paid an upfront amount of £420 with her 
debit card. The remaining cost of £3,780 was to be paid with a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Paybreak  Limited  (who are now trading as etika Finance  UK Limited,  trading  as 
Paybreak (Paybreak)).
Ms C says that E contacted her after she entered into the contract, saying that she needed 
to go to another branch  of theirs in order to continue the package.  However, Ms C then 
contacted E as she said the staff at the other branch were not giving her the same  
treatments as had been agreed. Ms C said that the treatments  were different each time and 
that they only lasted around half of the time they should have lasted. 
Ms C says though that she didnt get anywhere with E despite  numerous attempts to contact 
them. She says she then noticed  that the shop of E that where she was having  the 
treatments had changed its branding to a name Ill call S. 
Ms C then contacted  Paybreak to see if they could address her concerns.  However,  it seems  
Paybreak were unable to contact the supplier. Ms C again went  back  to the same  shop  and 
says she was offered  a new set of 12 treatments from a staff member. Ms C contacted 
Paybreak again to say that she was no longer prepared to pay for a service  she wasnt  
getting. And in the meantime, shed visited the same shop and noticed it was no longer 
there. So, Ms C complained to Paybreak  saying  she would no longer be making  any more 
payments and asked  for a refund of the five treatments she hadnt  had under  the original 
contract. She also mentioned  that the treatments hadnt been  given  with due care and 
professionalism. 
Paybreak looked into Ms Cs complaint and said in summary that she had completed the 
treatment package in full, and that they hadnt  been any evidence  that this hadnt been 
carried out as intended. Paybreak  said Ms C wasnt due a refund as a result.
Ms C wasnt  happy with Paybreaks response  and so referred  her complaint to our service, 
Since then,  Ms C has mentioned the following  other complaint points (in summary): 
A product shed  bought from S caused severe problems to her skin
The services she received from S had been carried  out fraudulently 
Paybreak hadnt correctly detailed the treatments shed received
She had agreed  to 12 body treatments to achieve a specific result, which  hadnt 
happened as the treatments werent completed. 
Ref: DRN73453882Following Ms Cs complaint to our service, Paybreak contacted her to say that they were  
happy to either offer completion of the treatment package with an alternative  supplier  or a 
price reduction of £343.65 of the total cost of the package. Ms C has said that she would be 
open to having the package completed  but only by E in the particular shop they were now 
using. 
Our investigator looked at Ms Cs complaint. She said, in summary:
the replacement  service being offered by Paybreak didnt give repeat performance 
of the contract. 
this offer from Paybreak hadnt  been  offered  in a reasonable  time and without  
significant inconvenience to Ms C. 
there was insufficient evidence  that the treatments given to Ms C were carried  out 
without reasonable care and skill
there was no reason  to think the goods  being used by S were  counterfeit
the item that Ms C says affected her skin was purchased in addition  to the contract  
with E so Paybreak couldnt be held liable for this
Our investigator felt that Ms C was entitled to a price reduction of the contract. A number of 
different calculations were  then carried out but, as it stands, our investigator feels that Ms C 
should receive a price  reduction of £677.40.
As Ms C does not accept the investigators  findings,  her complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where necessary and/or appropriate,  I reach  my decision on a balance of probabilities  that
is, what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in the light of the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
When considering  if Paybreak  acted fairly and reasonably in how its dealt with Ms Cs
request for a full refund, I take into account  relevant law. In this case,  Section  75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes Paybreak  responsible for a breach  of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In this case, its not disputed that there has been a breach of contract. Namely, that the 
supplier hasnt been able to conform to the contract  to provide Ms C with the goods and 
services that were to be provided under the terms of the contract. As Ms C paid for the 
provision of those goods  and services  using credit financed by Paybreak, Ms C has a like 
claim for breach of contract  against  Paybreak if the requirements of Section 75 have been 
met. I am satisfied that those requirements have been met and indeed  Paybreak doesnt 
dispute this in any way. 
So, Ms C is entitled to a remedy for the breach of contract. As she bought  goods  and 
services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here.
Ref: DRN73453883I note that Paybreak  sought to source a replacement supplier, so that the contract could  be 
completed in full. Section 54 of the CRA  mentions the following:
(3) If the service does not conform to the contract,  the consumers rights (and the provisions
about them  and when they are available) are:
(a) the right to require  repeat performance;
(b) the right to a price  reduction.
Its not entirely clear  whether Ms C has asked for repeat performance  of the contract. But I 
think though that she hasnt. I say this because Ms C has mentioned  at various  points that 
she shouldnt be liable  to pay for anything because  of her concerns over what  happened 
when the shop of E rebranded to S. And Ms C has mentioned more recently that she isnt 
obliged to pay Paybreak anything at all because of this. 
So, taking this into account, I therefore think Ms C is entitled to a price reduction. This is 
covered in Section 56 of the CRA  as follows:
(1) The right to a price reduction is the right to require  the trader  to reduce the price to the
consumer by an appropriate amount (including the right to receive a refund for anything
already paid above the reduced amount).
(2) The amount  of the reduction may, where appropriate, be the full amount of the price.
(3)A consumer who has that right and the right to require repeat performance  is only entitled
to a price reduction  in one of these situations
(a)because of section  55(3) the consumer cannot require repeat performance; or
(b)the consumer has required repeat performance, but the trader is in breach of the
requirement of section 55(2)(a) to do it within a reasonable time and without significant
inconvenience to the consumer.
Section 55(3) in summary talks about whether repeat performance of the contract is
impossible. As Ive mentioned above,  Im not persuaded that Ms C has required repeat 
performance of the contract. However, I am not persuaded anyway that the replacement  
supplier that Paybreak  sourced would be able to complete the contract in such  as a way as 
to exactly mirror how it was supposed to be performed. 
The nature of facial and body treatments  is that these will differ  from one supplier to another.
There are many different  types of facials and body treatments  available and these all use
different techniques  and products. In Ms Cs case,  and under the terms of her contract with 
the supplier, it was a given set of treatments and these came at a high overall  cost.  The 
assessment of the suitability of any replacement treatments is made even more difficult  by 
the fact that the invoice isnt very specific as to the received products or treatments.
Not only that, it took a lengthy amount of time for Paybreak to source the alternative supplier
during which  time Ms C still had to pay Paybreak  each  month  under the terms of her loan
agreement. I appreciate  that Paybreak likely  did what  it could, when it could, to source the
new supplier. However, I think Ms C entered into the contract on the reasonable 
understanding that this was a treatment  package.  Having such  large gaps between
treatments would I think likely lessen the benefits  of those  treatments  as an overall package.
Ref: DRN73453884So, taking everything  into account, I think a price  reduction is the fair and appropriate
remedy for Ms C.
I note that Ms C says that she believed S was operating a scam and has referred  to 
evidence sent by owners of the product trademark and solicitors acting on behalf of E. I think 
this is the main reason why Ms C feels that she shouldnt owe anything  at all to Paybreak.  
Ive considered this point  very carefully. Ms C did though receive some treatments under
the contract  and would have received the benefit of those treatments. I dont believe that the 
treatments provided to Ms C were  done so using goods that didnt or couldnt provide  the 
intended benefit.
I say this because  Ive not seen enough evidence that would make me think that the
products used werent genuine products. We certainly havent  had compelling  evidence of
this, for example  that what was used was tested and examined  and found  to be markedly
different. It looks more likely that this is a dispute around whether S was entitled to use or
licence the products from the trademark owner. This has been the subject  of much
discussion and is covered in the evidence that Ms C has sent to us. 
However, as Ive mentioned, I dont believe that the products used, and intended to be used, 
on Ms C werent the genuine products and would therefore had, or would have had, no 
benefit or intended benefit for Ms C.
So, in view of this, I dont  believe  it would be reasonable or proportionate for Ms C to
receive a full refund of what shes paid. I think it reasonable for Ms C to pay for the goods
and services she did receive.
I note Ms C says that one of the treatments  she received affected her skin and that the 
product used on her was out of date.  However, it seems that Ms C has said that she paid for 
this particular product  after the formation of the initial contract in June 2017 and that this was 
a separate purchase.  So, I cant hold Paybreak  equally liable  for this as it didnt form part of 
the initial contract.
I note also that Ms C says that the purpose of the body treatment sessions was that it would 
achieve a specific  result once completed. And so not completing them,  as has happened  
here, means  the treatments she received were pointless.
I do understand the point Ms C makes  here.  The contract was sold as a package,  so it 
follows that Ms C entered into this on the understanding that the purpose and benefit of it 
would be realised once  it had been  fully completed. I havent seen any compelling evidence 
though on what  the specific result  of the body  treatments would be or how that would be 
quantified or assessed. And I think that even individual treatments would have had some 
benefit or intended benefit. 
I think that a price reduction is the fair and reasonable outcome here. That leaves me to 
determine what the appropriate  and fair amount should be. 
Ref: DRN73453885Ive seen several different calculations carried out by our investigator  and by Paybreak to 
work out what a fair price  for Ms C to pay should  be, and therefore what her liability to 
Paybreak should be. I dont propose  to analyse each set of calculations that have been 
carried out. Rather, I will focus on what I think is the fairest way to resolve this point.
Im satisfied that, under the terms of the contract,  Ms C was to be provided  with 33
different elements. These  were 14 facial treatments, four diagnostics, a facial kit, a body kit, 
a facial toning  device and 12 body treatments.  I havent seen any evidence that specific,  
different costs were  applied to all of these elements. This makes  working  out how much  
each element had as a monetary value all but impossible to determine.
Not only that, weve  seen several  contracts  in respect of other consumers  which attribute
the same  elements as those shown on Ms Cs contract,  at differing prices and discounts. In
some examples, weve seen that the treatments  have been discounted; in others the actual
products themselves have been  reduced  or discounted.
Although I believe  there are 33 different elements  to the contract, I note that Paybreak has 
agreed to treat the contract as having 31 different  elements. I am happy to proceed on that 
basis, as it is more  advantageous to Ms C than what technically  should be calculated.  
I therefore think that the fairest way to determine what  Ms C should pay is to attribute an
equal cost to these 31 elements. So, this means that each element has an equal cost of 
£135.48. Ms Cs liability  therefore is for the number  of elements she received which is then 
given a £135.48 cost for each.
I note Ms C disputes the information Paybreak gave her about  the times  and dates of each 
appointment and treatment she had. However, Ms C has also said that she has not received 
five treatments and Paybreak hasnt sought  to dispute that. So, I am happy to proceed on 
the basis that the price reduction  should  be for these five treatments, and this I have  
calculated to be £677.40.
So, to clarify,  Ms C is only liable for £3,522.60 of the total cost of the £4,200 contract.  Ms C 
has already paid £420 as a deposit so this leaves her liable under the finance  agreement 
with Paybreak  for a total of £3,102.60.
To put things right, I will be directing Paybreak to reduce  the balance  owed  under  the 
agreement so that Ms C is only liable for a total of £3,102.60. In the event this leaves a zero 
balance, Paybreak  should end the finance agreement.  If Ms C has paid more than the 
£3,102.60 she is liable  for, then the overpayment should be refunded  to her, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest, calculated from when any payment was made until the date of settlement.  
Again, in this circumstance,  Paybreak should end the finance agreement. 
I also think it fair and reasonable to direct Paybreak to remove any adverse information  they 
have currently recorded on Ms Cs credit file, after S ceased  trading.
Ref: DRN73453886My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct etika Finance UK Limited  to do
the following  (if it has not done so already):
Recalculate Ms Cs liability to them under  the loan agreement  by ensuring that she
is only liable to pay a total of £3,102.60;
In the event this recalculation leaves a zero balance, etika Finance  UK Limited  
should end the finance agreement;
If Ms C has already repaid more than £3,102.60,  then the overpayment  should be 
refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest.  Interest  is to be applied from when 
any overpayment was made  until the date of settlement. The finance agreement  
should be ended as well;
Remove any adverse  information they have  recorded on Ms Cs credit file, after S
ceased trading.
If etika Finance UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from any interest  that is to be awarded, it should tell Ms C how much its taken
off. It should  also give Ms C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7345388