K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy, in respect of his landlord  insurance claim for malicious damage by the 
tenant of his property,  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has sought to apply 
multiple excesses for each area of damage.
background
In early January  2018, through his broker, Mr G made a claim to RSA for damage caused to 
his let property  by his tenant  who he had had evicted from the property at the end of 
December 2017.  There were areas of damage  to the hall, stairs and landing, lounge,  
kitchen, two bedrooms and externally to the decking and garden gate areas.
RSA reviewed the matter  and asked for details  of the damage  and photos,  it also asked for a 
crime reference number  (CRN). Mr G supplied details, invoices, a couple of photos of the 
garden and the CRN. His contractors  had failed to take photos of the damage theyd dealt 
with. RSA said that there were a number of different areas of damage so eight excesses (of 
£250 for each  area) would apply.  Mr G thought  this was unfair  and referred his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator thought it was unfair for RSA to apply multiple excesses and said that only 
one excess should  apply for the malicious damage. He proposed that RSA pay 
compensation of £150. He pointed out that Mr G couldnt recoup his legal costs or travel 
costs in connection with repossessing the property. Mr G accepted  this.
RSA said that Mr G had had the damage repaired before it could inspect it and it hadnt 
received a CRN as required under the policy. It didnt think Mr G had supplied  enough  
evidence to show that the damage arose from a single event. It pointed out that the changing 
of the locks had separate policy cover  and that the light fittings  had been stolen, so would 
come under the theft cover.
Our investigator accepted that the light fittings and lock replacement would be separate 
claims and as each came  below the excess for their respective claims that damage wouldnt 
be covered. He said that RSA should settle  the claim  for the malicious damage, applying  just 
one excess. Mr G accepted that.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claims involving malicious damage by tenants  rarely  involve one big item of damage. They 
would more likely arise  in situations such as this, where the tenant has been evicted and had 
caused substantial  damage to the property before leaving. Whilst every  case  is different I 
take the view that there would have to be clear evidence that the damage occurred 
separately at different  times to be treated  as different claims, Here,  RSA has decided that as 
Mr G hasnt been able to show that the damage occurred at the same  time and because the 
precise details of the damage were unclear the damage was likely to have happened at 
different times. I dont agree with that approach  RSA has to act reasonably.  Our approach  
is that where theres extensive damage  to a property and no clear evidence to indicate when 
the damage occurred,  its reasonable to treat this as one claim and apply one excess. 
Ref: DRN74050512Indeed, I note that in its claim notes RSA suggested  that its approach, whilst it may be 
technically correct, was harsh and that it should  check for reasonableness.
I think that, as the damage all seems to have taken  place over a short  period of time and 
doesnt appear to relate to just poor maintenance, RSA should  treat the malicious damage 
as one claim and apply only one excess. The cost of changing the locks comes  under a 
different cover on the policy  and the light fittings were stolen (and come under the theft 
rather than malicious  damage  cover)  so its fair to treat those as separate  claims and, as the 
cost of those items individually fall below the excess  for each, they arent  recoverable.
Taking RSAs point concerning its not being  able to inspect the damage  and there  being  no 
CRN, I can see that the CRN was supplied to it by the broker  in its email to it of 28 March  
2018. The policy requires  damage by malicious  persons to be reported to the police within  
24 hours. I dont know if Mr G did this but I dont  think it would be fair to decline the claim 
because of this; I dont think that RSA was prejudiced by this. I also note that the claim was 
reported within a few days of the damage  being  discovered so RSA had the opportunity to 
inspect it. Whilst Mr G wasnt then able to supply interior photos he did supply invoices 
referring to the damage and RSA could  have contacted the contractors concerned. It didnt 
raise this issue, nor the question of reporting  it to the police with Mr G as a reason for not 
paying the claim so I dont  think it can now do so 
My view is that RSA should  settle the claim along the lines of the investigators  view as 
follows:
Decorator (in respect of damage  to walls  and ripped wallpaper) £1,300.
Replace damaged  gate and decking  £800.
Garden clearance,  disposal  of waste and materials  £691.40.
Skip £75.
TOTAL £2,866.40 less excess of £250 = £2,616.40
It would be normal to expect RSA to pay interest on that figure so I propose  to add it at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date Mr G paid the invoices.
I think that while the cost of overall cleaning of the property wouldnt be payable, the clearing 
of the garden  relates to the repair of the decking and the garden gate, so its fair for RSA to 
pay that.
I agree  that Mr Gs costs  relating to repossession  of the property including  legal costs  and 
travel costs arent recoverable under the policy
Finally I think  it reasonable that RSA pay Mr G £150  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to 
Settle Mr Gs claim by paying him £2,616,40  as set out above together  with simple 
interest* at 8% per year from the date he paid the invoices until the date it pays.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN74050513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct  tax 
from any interest paid. Should  Mr G request it, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should 
provide him with a certificate  showing  how much  tax has been  taken off so that, if 
appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN7405051