K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2004. 
I know that when  PPI was sold to Mr P, Canada Square Operations Limited  was trading as 
Egg.  To keep things  simple, Ill refer to Egg for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She didnt think Mr P would have 
bought the PPI if Egg had explained the terms and conditions of the cover  as it should have 
done. She thought that he had good sick pay arrangements from work and access  to some 
savings. 
Egg didnt  agree with that view. It said that Mr P had exceeded his credit  limit on a number of 
occasions and he had used his credit  card to withdraw cash.  Egg didnt think  that the way 
Mr P used his account was consistent with someone  who had access to savings. 
Our adjudicator had asked Mr P for documentary evidence of his savings to which Mr P 
responded that he couldnt provide this as the account was held such a long time ago. Egg 
queried why Mr P had not used his savings  to repay  his credit card when the debt was 
passed to a collection agency  in 2005. 
As the parties do not agree with our adjudicator,  the matter has been passed to me to make  
a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
This was a very finely  balanced decision.  But Ive upheld this complaint. Ill explain  why 
below. 
When Egg sold this cover  to Mr P, it had to give him enough information  about the policy  so 
he could decide  for himself whether  it was a good  fit for his needs. That information had to 
be clear,  fair and not misleading. 
PPI was sold online. Egg has provided me with sample screenshots  setting out the steps 
Mr P would have undertaken during the application process. Looking at the information  he 
would have seen,  it looks as though the basic cost of the cover would have been set out. But 
I cant see that he would have been  told that he would have had to pay interest  on his 
premiums if he didnt  repay his balance  in full or that he would have had to keep paying  the 
premiums in the event  of a claim.  These matters are important as they mean  the PPI could 
have been more expensive than originally  presented. 
So the question  for me now is whether Mr P would have acted differently if Egg had told him 
everything it should have done  about the cover.  To  help me decide  what hes likely to have 
done, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also 
Ref: DRN79707572looked at what  Mr P told us about his personal  circumstances  at the time. I want  to remind  
the parties that I must  consider what Mr P would have  done at the point of sale. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mr Ps credit card 
balance would have  been repaid if he became unwell or if he lost his job. When he bought 
the PPI policy, Mr P told us that he would have had six months full sick pay and six months  
half sick pay. I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mr P is incorrect in his recollection on 
that point. 
Turning now to the issue of Mr Ps savings. Mr P told us initially that his savings were  the 
equivalent of between six and 12 months  worth of his salary. He later clarified  that figure to 
be in the region of £7,500.  Egg has provided me with a lot of information about how Mr P ran 
his account and said it didnt accept that Mr P had such savings. 
As I said above, I must  concern myself  with Mr Ps situation at the point of sale.  I do accept 
that the way he ran his account  could  reflect  his situation when PPI was sold.  However,  in 
this case, I dont think it does. Egg referred to several cash withdrawals Mr P had made on 
his card  but looking closely  at those transactions, I can see that they were made whilst he 
was abroad. Similarly,  the occasions when  he exceeded his credit  limit also appear to have 
generally been when he was outside  the UK. In those circumstances, I cannot say the way 
he managed his card when he was away was indicative of his finances  at the point of sale.  
Considering the evidence  before me, Ive accepted what  Mr P told us about his existing 
means. So I dont  think  hed have bought the PPI if Egg had told him everything  it should 
have done about the cost of the cover.  It will need to take action to put things right. I should 
however make clear  that I can see Mr P paid PPI premiums for a relatively short time. Egg 
has already refunded some of the commission he paid for the PPI. The compensation 
amount I have directed below will reflect  that. 
putting things right 
Egg should put Mr P in the financial position he would be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.Egg should find out how much  Mr P would have owed when the account was closed if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Egg should then refund  the difference between what Mr P owed when the account  was 
closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Egg can also deduct  what it paid back  
to Mr P in respect of commission from the amount it now owes.  
B.Egg should add simple interest  on the difference between  what  Mr P would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Egg works out what Mr P would  have owed each month without PPI  Mr P 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Egg should also pay simple  interest  on the 
Ref: DRN79707573extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr P 
wouldve owed Egg something on his credit  card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 

D.Egg should tell Mr P what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Egg to take off tax from this interest. Egg must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint  about Canada Square Operations Limited.  I require it to comply 
with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7970757