K821x#15complaint
In August  2008  Mr and Mrs A, whom Ill call the borrowers, entered into a long-term 
commercial loan with Lloyds Bank Plc (the bank)  under which  the interest  rate was fixed  for 
the first ten years. 
The borrowers have  complained that the loan was mis-sold to them, because among other 
things the bank hadnt adequately explained  beforehand the potential size of the break  
costs they might have  to pay if they repaid the loan during the ten year period.
Theyve also complained  that the fixed interest  rate offered to them by the bank unfairly 
contained a hidden profit. 
background
The borrowers ran a business that provided a service to the general public. In 2008  they 
moved their borrowing from another bank to Lloyds.  They also consolidated some personal 
borrowing in the new loan.
They complained about the loan via a representative  in 2016. The period of the fixed  interest 
rate expired  in 2018 without the borrowers  having repaid the loan and without  having  paid 
any break costs. 
The bank accepted it hadnt  adequately explained  the potential size of break costs. It has 
offered to cancel the fixed rate with effect from the date of the borrowers complaint, 
replacing it with a variable  interest  rate and making  any consequential  financial adjustments.  
Under the offer (as revised)  the borrowers wouldnt be required to pay any break costs. 
The borrowers didnt  accept the banks  offer.
Our adjudicator upheld  the borrowers  complaint  in part. He concluded that if the bank had 
adequately explained the potential size of break costs the borrowers  would instead  have  
fixed the interest rate for only five years, not ten. But he didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong  regarding a hidden profit. 
Neither the borrowers nor the bank accepted  the adjudicators findings. The bank thought  
the adjudicator  had confused two issues  to its detriment: the borrowers  awareness  of break 
costs and their awareness of how large  the costs might be. The bank also thought  that 
(a) the adjudicator  had wrongly used hindsight when  concluding what  the borrowers might 
have done instead, and that (b) more generally  the adjudicator lacked the grounds for safely 
concluding the borrowers would instead  have fixed the interest  rate for five years. The bank 
remained of the view it had made  a fair offer of settlement.  
Via their representative the borrowers responded to the adjudicators findings as follows:
They disagreed  with our approach not to consider what  if any advice the bank gave 
before they entered into the loan.
They insisted it had been unfair  for the bank to apparently include an extra  profit 
margin in the fixed rate without  being open and transparent about it.
Any interest rate forming  part of the ombudsmans award should be free of any extra 
profit margin. 
Ref: DRN75663332The specific evidence relating to their case indicated that if theyd known how large 
the break costs  might  be they would instead  have  opted  for a variable rate, or at most 
for a two or three year fix. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint both parties  but 
Ive come to broadly  the same  conclusions as the adjudicator. 
Before I come to my main  findings, both parties  have raised points of principle on which  Ill 
try and comment as helpfully as I can.
break costs
I accept theres a distinction, which I know the adjudicator is aware  of, between a borrowers 
knowledge that break costs may be payable,  and her or his awareness  of how large  they 
might be. Its the latter aspect that plays and has always played  a crucial part in our 
approach. 
In this case, I find that the borrowers knew or must fairly be taken to have known  as they 
signed a document to that effect  that break costs might be payable if they repaid the loan 
early. But I find that the information the bank  gave the borrowers didnt adequately make 
them aware of how large  the break  costs  might be.
The approach this service  takes  to misstatements or misinformation, including  a lack of due 
information, is to ask what the position  would have been if the misstatement or 
misinformation hadnt  occurred, not to treat the misstatement  or misinformation as if it had 
been true. My understanding is that this is also the approach taken by the courts.
So in this case I have  to ask what would have  happened if the borrowers  had known how 
large the break costs might be. The possibilities include that the borrowers  would have still 
gone ahead  with the loan and fixed for ten years; that they wouldnt have fixed at all; or that 
they would  have fixed for a shorter period than ten years.  (There  are of course other 
possibilities.)
In line with what I think is the correct approach, what I dont do is to treat the banks  
inadequate explanation of break costs as if it had been contractually  binding, ie as if the 
borrowers would have to pay by way of break costs at least as much as the amounts given 
in the banks inadequate explanation.
advice
There may be times where I find it necessary to look into whether the bank gave the 
borrower advice to enter into a loan. Banking  practice and legal case law are clear that 
theres no general requirement  for a bank to give advice on the suitability of a loan, 
particularly a commercial  loan. The standard loan documentation of banks typically  states  
that the bank hasnt  given  advice and that the borrower has to assess the proposed loan 
with or without other professional help.  
Ref: DRN75663333The fact that a bank makes  it a condition of lending that the borrower must, for example, fix 
the interest rate, doesnt in itself mean the bank is advising the borrower that such a loan will 
be suitable for her/him. 
Ive found no evidence in this case that the bank  gave the borrowers advice  regarding  the 
loan. Theres certainly nothing in writing to that effect, nor have I been  able to infer advice 
from the evidence  as a whole. The loan documents state that the borrowers havent received 
or relied  on any advice  given by the bank.  
hidden profit
The general principle  is that contractual agreements  should  be honoured. There  may of 
course be good and familiar reasons why a particular contract should be modified or set 
aside. But understandably the ombudsman service doesnt actively look for novel ways to 
interfere in established legal relationships.
Theres no legal or regulatory  requirement  for the bank to explain or account to a customer 
for how it makes a profit on a particular  commercial loan or what  profit  its actually making. 
The ombudsman service  would be taking a radical  step if we alone effectively imposed such  
a requirement retrospectively. 
What in my view clearly matters to a borrower taking  out a fixed  rate loan, in terms of 
openness and transparency, is the all in fixed rate that the borrower will be paying. I dont 
accept that theres  a material difference between a case where the bank sets a fixed  rate of 
6.9% and another case where  the bank sets a cost of funds rate of 5% and a margin of 
1.9%. The end result is the same  a fixed rate of 6.9%. That is what the borrower knows  
they will have to pay, and thats the rate they can compare  with other potential lenders.
The borrowers have  argued that they were  unaware  there was an extra premium or cost 
(ie the hidden profit  margin) to borrowing at a fixed rate. Im afraid I dont follow  this 
argument. The borrowers knew what the all in fixed rate was, and they knew,  or could find 
out, what the variable  rate was. They could  then compare the costs of both repayment  
methods.
I should add that I make  no finding that an extra  margin  of the sort suspected  by the 
borrowers actually existed. But I mention in passing that the fixed  rate used by the bank 
expressly included  regulatory costs, so it wasnt just a cost of funds rate.
The borrowers have  said theyd like to know if the rate used to compensate them  includes a 
hidden profit margin. It follows from my comments above that I dont think  thats  a valid 
request. The rate I would  expect the bank to use is the rate it would have charged any 
customer for the alternative  product at the relevant time. It cant be the case  that the 
borrowers specify or dictate the interest  rate they would find acceptable as redress.  
use of hindsight
I think all would accept that hindsight cant be used when answering  the question  what the 
borrowers would otherwise have done if theyd known  how large the break  costs  might be. 
The answer cant be based on subsequent facts or events that were  unknown or 
unforeseeable when the loan was originally entered  into.
Ref: DRN75663334But thats different  from a situation where  subsequent events provide corroborating evidence  
of something that was found to exist,  or that was inferred to exist,  when  the loan was 
originally entered  into. For example, there  may be a finding that a borrower wouldnt have 
entered into a fixed rate loan with potentially high break costs because she was running  a 
property company and there was likely to be a number of sales and purchases of properties. 
If there subsequently  turned out to be a number of such  transactions  and this reinforced  the 
finding, that wouldnt in my view be a use of hindsight.  
findings  what  the borrowers  would otherwise have done
I have to decide what if anything the borrowers would have done differently if theyd had a 
better awareness of how large the break  costs might  be.
This isnt an exact  science, and I have to reach my conclusion after considering all the 
evidence and arguments. 
The borrowers have  asked me to take account  of their borrowing history. But in fact  and 
this isnt of course  a criticism of the borrowers   they didnt really have much of a history 
in 2008 in terms of their business and their borrowing in connection  with the business. The 
business was very young, and theyd only had one previous commercial  loan.  
I note that in the first two years of the Lloyds  loan it was agreed  the borrowers would pay 
only interest; there were  to be no repayments of capital in that period. This indicates a 
degree of caution  over their outgoings.  The same  caution may explain why the borrowers,  
who werent required to fix, decided to do so. It meant their loan payments would remain at 
what was hopefully an affordable level for a number of years even if market interest rates 
rose. That could be a considerable advantage for a young business. I dont think it can be 
said that the borrowers had no interest at all in fixing.
That said,  my finding  is that the borrowers  wouldnt have fixed for as long as ten years  if 
theyd known how large the break costs might  be. Other  things being  equal, the potential 
break costs  would be larger and the possibility of their being  payable would be greater, the 
longer the interest rate was fixed. All things considered, I think the borrowers, with their 
relatively new business and with better awareness  of break costs, would have fixed  their 
loan costs for five years  instead of ten. 
Theres an internal  hand-written note of the banks dated 9 April 2008 that reads, with 
reference to the borrowers: Also going  to fix for 5 yrs.  This obviously changed before 
August 2008 when  the loan was completed. But the note indicates the borrowers had 
expressed a desire  for a fix of five years at one stage. 
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the bank to pay the 
balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation 
requires Lloyds Bank Plc to carry out the steps  I specify  below. I order  the bank to do this - 
up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000. 
Ref: DRN75663335Recommendation: If the financial  effect of carrying out in full the steps I specify exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that Lloyds Bank Plc carry them out in full. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It doesnt  bind the bank. Its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  
They may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice  before  deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
The specified steps
Refund to Mr and Mrs A the difference between what they paid on their fixed interest 
rate and what they would otherwise have paid with a fixed interest  rate for five years.
Pay Mr and Mrs A compensatory  interest of 8% simple per year on any 
overpayments from the date they were  paid until the date compensation is paid.
If Lloyds Bank Plc believes its legally  required  to deduct tax from the interest, it should send 
a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs A may then be able to reclaim any 
tax overpaid from HMRC, depending  on the circumstances.
I note the adjudicator in his findings asked the bank to confirm the fixed  interest  rate for five 
years and provide  redress calculations,  but the bank hasnt  yet done so. I require the bank to 
provide this information within 14 days of the date of this decision, so that the borrowers can 
assess whether or not to accept  my final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566333