K820x#14Complaint
Ms D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) debited her accounts  with a 
series of transactions she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.  Shes also unhappy  
NatWest closed her accounts without  her consent.  
Background
What Ms D says
Ms Ds complaint relates  to the following  accounts:
-Account 1  a current account, opened  when she was a student in 1991
-Account 2  a savings account
Ms D says her ex-husband took over both accounts.  She says she met him in 1998 and got 
engaged in July 2001, at which point he moved in with Ms D and her mum. They  then 
bought a home towards the end of 2004.  
Ms D says her ex-husband transferred funds from account 1 to himself  and to an account 
with the reference BROTHER  as follows:
Date Amount
04/08/00 £2,000
11/08/00 £2,000
16/08/00 £1,525
24/08/00 £10.48
Ms D says her ex-husband then set up online  banking on her accounts and used the 
accounts without  her knowledge  to make online transfers. She says he transferred £5,269 to 
himself, £40,851 to a joint account  she had no knowledge of until she was asked to divert  
her salary  to it in 2005, and £29,330  to credit cards that werent hers.  The total sum Ms D 
says was taken  from her accounts without her consent was over £90,000. 
Account 2 was used  very infrequently. On 4 January  2002  £2,000  was transferred to Ms Ds 
current account and on 21 September 2004  the remaining balance  of a few hundred  pounds  
was also transferred. The account was then closed in January 2008.  Ms D says she had no 
knowledge of the transfers  or the closure  of the account. 
Ms D explains she wasnt  aware  of the misuse of her accounts until she recently made  a 
subject access request. At the time the transactions  took place Ms D says she was in an 
abusive relationship and was prevented  from viewing  any statements. She says that from 
January 2005  when  she was ordered  to pay her a salary to a joint account with another  
bank, she had no access to her funds. 
Ms D thought account 1 was dormant after she diverted  her salary in 2005  but has found out 
her ex-husband continued to transfer money in and out of it for some  years.  Both of Ms Ds 
accounts were closed in 2008. She says she didnt give instructions to close them. 
Ms D has pointed out that the email address used  to set up online  banking is incorrect as it 
has a double domain, which should have alerted NatWest  to the fact the online facility was 
set up fraudulently. She questions how its possible to convert an account to an online 
Ref: DRN73779772account, hijack it and subsequently close it without  arousing bank suspicion despite  the fake 
email address. 
What NatWest says
NatWest noted all the transactions were made over six years  ago and said that because of 
this it was unable  to investigate them. In view of the fact Ms D says she only found out about 
the transactions more recently  when  she made  a data request NatWest consented to this 
service investigating  Ms Ds complaint. NatWest is satisfied it didnt make any errors and has 
told this service:
-Given the fact the accounts were closed in 2008  it has limited information.
-To be able to make online payments Ms Ds card, PIN and an authorisation number 
were needed.
-It is satisfied  Ms D gave instructions to close the accounts in 2008.
Our investigation so far
The investigator said NatWest acted reasonably. He concluded  that on balance Ms D set up 
online payments  herself and if her ex-husband had access it was because she shared the 
details. The investigator set out the steps that needed to be taken for an online payment to 
be made and confirmed that the card, a PIN and password were required. Given the 
passage of time it wasnt possible to establish details like where the accounts were 
accessed and from what device. The payments made were not unusual, so NatWest had no 
reason to be concerned about them. And as the majority of payments were made to a joint 
account, a savings account and to a credit  card the investigator said Ms D had the benefit of 
the money. 
The investigator referred to emails  provided  by Ms D in support of her complaint and said 
one showed her ex-husband transferred money online from Ms Ds account to pay a credit 
card, which Ms D didnt  challenge. Finally, in relation to the closure of Ms Ds accounts,  the 
investigator said NatWest acted on written instructions. The signature  on those instructions 
was substantially similar to the one NatWest had on record for Ms D, so he couldnt 
conclude it acted unreasonably in closing  the accounts. 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said:  
 
-Her accounts were  not operated with her full consent and knowledge. 
-An email from her ex-husband confirms he applied  for online banking and asked for 
her account details.
-The investigator had overlooked the fact the joint account her ex-husband transferred 
money to was an account she had no knowledge of. This service  needs to look at 
both accounts  to understand the wider implications. 
-The signatures NatWest had on record were not hers.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN73779773In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  transactions
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken
that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
I should say that Im only looking  at Ms Ds complaint against NatWest,  so will not be 
commenting on the joint account  with a different bank.
Im sorry  to hear that Ms D has suffered economic abuse. I have carefully considered what  
she has told me and the available evidence.  Whilst I understand why Ms D was unable to 
bring this complaint sooner,  the passage of time means that information  Id normally  
consider in a case like this is no longer available. For example, I cant look into which device 
was used to log in to Ms Ds account online. Evidence like this is crucial to Ms Ds case  that 
she had no knowledge  of the payments or control of her account.  
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Ms D authorised the transactions she 
disputes. This is because: 
-Some of the transactions Ms D disputes were made before online banking  was set 
up, such as some  of the payments to her ex-husband. These  payments  appear as 
debits on Ms Ds statements in the same  way as other  payments shes  authorised,  
including some payments to her ex-husband. Given the time thats elapsed since 
these transactions,  I havent been provided with any evidence as to how these 
payments were made  and cant reasonably ask NatWest to refund them.
-Ive considered the payments to BROTHER as Ms D has specifically raised  them. 
All of these payments were also prior to online banking being  set up. My comment 
above about the passage  of time also applies  to these transfers. In addition,  Ms Ds 
statements dont show the account  number the payments were  made to, so its not 
clear who benefitted from these transactions or where the money  was actually 
transferred to. Given these points  Im not asking NatWest  to refund these 
transactions.
-On balance Im persuaded that although Ms Ds ex-husband may have contacted 
NatWest to start the process  of setting up online banking,  Ms D completed  the next 
steps to set it up. I say this because NatWest  has explained the process  that applied  
at the time. As online banking was set up so long ago, I cant expect NatWest to 
retain records, so have to consider whats most likely to have happened.  NatWest 
says it would have  sent a pack  to Ms Ds home address. If online banking was set up 
in 2000 as Ms D suggests this was before her former husband moved in. So Im 
persuaded she either completed these forms herself or at least  knew  about the 
account and the online banking being  set up as she would have received that 
information in order for the process to have been  completed.  
-Once online banking  was set up, I consider  the evidence points to the fact Ms D 
made the payments or provided relevant details to allow  her ex-partner to do so. Ive 
seen evidence from NatWest that confirms the steps required to set up a new payee  
online. These steps would need to be taken each  time a payment was made  for the 
first time to someone  new. The evidence from NatWest confirms  that the card needs 
Ref: DRN73779774to be placed in the card reader, the PIN entered, followed by the authorisation code 
from online banking. The customer is then required to enter in to the online banking 
screen a code generated by the card reader. I cant  see how a new payee could have 
been set up without Ms Ds knowledge  given the personal details  that were required.  
Once a new payee had been set up characters from Ms Ds PIN and password were 
required to make each  payment, so again  on balance I consider Ms D made or 
provided details  for these  payments to be made.  In which case  I think its fair for 
NatWest to treat these  payments  as being authorised.
-I dont consider the email evidence Ms D has provided shows Ms Ds ex-husband set 
up online  banking without her knowledge. 
An undated  email Ms D says her former  husband sent in 2000  says: 
Just wanting to sort out this online banking thing so I can make  you a beneficiary  
direct over the web. 
I need the name on your account Presumably [] the account number and the 
sortcode 
As I have applied for this for you too you will be able to do the same when your stuff 
arrives in about a week I will give you my details  then.
In my opinion this email  exchange shows Ms Ds ex-partner asked  for the name on 
her account,  the sort-code  and account  number  in order to set Ms D up as a 
beneficiary on his account.  He then went on to say Ms D could set him up as a 
beneficiary on her account  once  her pack arrived in around a week.  The email does 
suggest Ms Ds ex-partner may have  contacted  NatWest to ask for the pack to be 
sent, but as I said above the pack would have  been sent to Ms Ds address, and at 
the time she didnt live with her ex-husband. Even  if Ms Ds ex-husband requested  
the pack, I dont  consider he was able to go on and set up online banking  for Ms D 
without her providing further information.   
A further  email from Ms Ds ex-partner dated  3 November 2003 said:
I just quickly paid the joint card bill - I didn't have time to look at it fully but I don't 
believe there are any special transactions which need to be treated any differently to 
normal so I just divided the bill in 2 and have  created a payment from your bank  to 
mine on 7* November for your half - £921.68.
The total bill for this month (including number plate) was £1843.36.
Next month  we will have  the joys of the skiing holiday to pay for, then Xmas... and so 
on and so forth...
This email says Ms Ds ex-partner transferred funds from her account to pay for joint 
expenditure on a credit  card.  It also suggests  there would be joint expenditure in the 
future. Given this, Im persuaded funds were transferred with Ms Ds knowledge. If 
Ms Ds ex-partner didnt  have her security information, he wouldnt be able to transfer 
funds, which  leads  me to believe that on the balance of probabilities  Ms D gave him 
Ref: DRN73779775this information.  Its also relevant  that theres  no evidence  Ms D questioned  how her 
ex-partner was able to make the payment or that she disputed  the transaction shed 
been made aware of. 
Due to the passage of time NatWest no longer has any documents  relating to the setting up 
of online  banking and there is no evidence of any email  correspondence on NatWests  file. In 
these circumstances,  I cant  conclude  that the incorrect  email address held by NatWest  
should have alerted it to any potential issues with Ms Ds accounts.
The payments made from both accounts  were not unusual in any way. The payments from 
account 1 related mainly to household expenses, credit  cards and transfers  to a joint 
account. I consider  these  to be normal payments that would not reasonably arouse any 
suspicion. There was very little activity on account 2 and the transfers that were  made  were  
to Ms Ds current  account. Again, I cant say the activity on the account was unusual or 
suspicious. So I dont  consider NatWest  should  have taken further steps before making  the 
payments. 
Ive asked Ms D for some more information about  some of the online payments she 
disputes. Although  Ms D disputes all the online payments and says she didnt make them  or 
have knowledge  of them, I see funds were transferred  online to a mortgage saver  account. 
This happened in the period before  Ms D said she and her former husband bought  a home  
together. Some examples are these  transfers are below:
Date Amount
17/03/04 £1,000
10/05/04 £1,500
05/07/04 £2,000
10/08/04 £10,000
It seems  this money was being saved to help with buying a house that Ms D then had the 
benefit of. An email from Ms Ds ex-partner in November 2003 shows he was saving for the 
house fund too. Its also possible Ms D benefited from purchases made on the credit  cards 
that were credited from her account.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say NatWest is 
responsible for refunding these payments to Ms D.
Ive balanced  what Ms D has said about her circumstances alongside other  evidence  
including various  emails/texts between her and her ex-husband and having done so, its 
difficult to conclude that she wasnt aware he had her details or that NatWest  ought to have 
picked up on something because the activity  between the accounts didnt seen unusual.
Closure of the accounts
Ms D has said she didnt  close either of her accounts. Ive been provided with a copy of the 
form used to request  the closure of the accounts. Ms D says the signature on it isnt hers, 
and that the signature NatWest has on record also isnt hers. Im not a signature or 
handwriting expert but believe the signature on the form is sufficiently similar to that on the 
complaint form Ms D sent to this service  to conclude it is hers. Given  this, Im persuaded 
NatWest acted reasonably in closing Ms Ds accounts on receipt  of a signed written  
instruction to do so. And I havent  seen  anything to suggest that NatWest was on notice or 
ought to have been that it wasnt dealing with Ms D as she suggests .
Ref: DRN73779776Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for NatWest to refuse  to refund 
the transactions Ms D disputes  and to close the accounts.
Thats not to say that I dont have a great deal of sympathy or that I dont believe Ms D when 
she has explained her circumstances, or that she doesnt have a claim against her ex-
husband. Im simply considering whether  its fair to hold NatWest responsible for the losses  
Ms D says she incurred, and in the circumstances, I dont think  it is. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7377977