K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that goods she acquired through  a finance agreement supplied  by Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited (Very) were not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to reject 
the goods and obtain a refund.
background
Miss L tells us she purchased a sofa from Very in October 2016. She says the sofa cost in 
excess of £1,000 and came  with a 12 month guarantee.  Miss L reports that she first noted  
issues with the sofa after about nine months - when she saw the colouring was coming  off. 
She also complains about the stitching becoming loose.
Because of various domestic problems Miss L says she didnt raise a complaint with Very 
until September 2017. She says Very did nothing at that time and in January 2018 she says 
she again raised the complaint. Miss L says the complaint was dealt with outside  the eight 
week period allowed and that Very said she should get the sofa inspected  and obtain  a 
report. She says this would have cost around  £150 and she was unable to afford this.
Very told us the first record  it had of a complaint was in January 2018. It said as this was 
outside the 12 month guarantee period  the customer had been  informed they would need to 
provide an inspection report. It said it if this showed there had been  a manufacturing defect it 
would look to repair the item or - if that was not possible - to provide some  other  remedy.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  He didnt think  there 
was sufficient evidence  to show the damage  to the sofa was not the result  of normal wear  
and tear - as opposed  to a manufacturing fault or product defect.
Miss L did not agree and said shed complained to Very within the guarantee period and 
provided photographs. As its not been possible  to resolve this complaint an ombudsman 
has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss L has experienced the disappointment of goods she purchased not living  up 
her expectations. I recognise  that the sofa represented a major item of expenditure and so 
her concern  is understandable.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I have to decide what  I think is the 
most probable explanation for whats happened. I should also explain that I do not apply the 
law - directly - but I do take it into account.
Miss L has said she first contacted Very about the sofa in September 2017 - although Very 
has said it has no record of these phone  calls. But Miss L was able to provide some details 
relating to the dates on which the calls were made. Whilst shes not been  able to provide the 
recordings which she says she had on her mobile  phone - as it got damaged  - I think  it more 
probable than not that she made the calls she described.
Ref: DRN78435062But that does  not of itself take things much further.  Relevant law here is the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. And briefly summarised  this says goods should be of satisfactory quality  at 
the time of supply.  This includes  being  fit for purpose and having an element of durability in 
keeping with the nature of the goods.
Where a fault is discovered  within six months of supply then its presumed - unless its 
established otherwise - that the fault was present at the time of supply. But here the phone 
calls Miss L described were outside this timescale. 
Whilst they were within the guarantee period, it would still have been necessary  to establish 
the sofa itself was defective in order for the terms of the guarantee to apply. Theres 
photographic evidence which shows some evidence of deterioration,  but unfortunately it 
does not establish the cause. And so whilst I accept the photographs  were probably taken in 
2017 around the time of the call - that does not overcome the issue.
Im aware Miss L says she previously had enjoyed much longer use out of a similar item. But 
items vary and how well an item lasts is highly dependent  upon  many factors  - not just the 
use made of it. Other variables such as the manner of use and conditions  in which an item is 
kept and maintained have  to be considered. Miss L recognised  this as she described how 
she uses special cleaner and its not as if I have  kids climbing all over it . But the fact that 
there are so many potential variable factors only serves to illustrate  how important an 
independent assessment is to establishing the reason for the issues.
Furniture such as a sofa is likely  to be an item subject to daily use and therefore the issue of 
wear and tear is particularly relevant.  Without  independent evidence  its not possible for me 
to say the cause  of the issue complained about is probably due to inherent  fault or 
manufacturing error.
I fully accept the reason why Miss L was unable to supply such  evidence.  She was 
presented with the dilemma that the cost of an inspection report which  might  - but not 
necessarily would - have supported her claim, was beyond her means  to afford  at the time.
Ive also looked  at the issue of how long Very took to deal with Miss Ls complaint.  Without  a 
recording I cant say what was - or was not - said during the September  phone calls. Ive 
assumed that, in general terms, they were about  the sofa but Im not able to say what the 
specifics were  and if Very did anything wrong by not taking further  action at that time.  
When it did formally  record  a complaint, in January 2018, the final response letter was 
issued a few days in excess of the eight week period usually allowed. But I note that letter  
did contain an apology  for the inconvenience - and fully dealt with this and other  issues.  So I 
dont think this relatively small delay had any significant effect on the outcome of Miss Ls 
complaint.
Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Miss L, Ive reached the conclusion  that its not 
possible to say the sofa was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  So I shant be asking  
Very to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN78435063Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7843506