K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about the delay and administrative problems she had when she applied  for 
a further advance from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.  Ms C wants compensation 
for the stress  she suffered.
background
Ms C contacted Halifax about a further  advance  in March 2018.  Halifax required an 
employers reference.  Because  of a delay  in getting the advance,  Ms C missed out on a deal 
that was available and had to pay a higher rate of interest over the 24 month period of the 
loan. Halifax offered to compensate Ms C for this extra  interest and to pay Ms C £200 for her 
trouble and upset.  Our adjudicator believed that this offer was fair and reasonable. Ms C 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has reason to be unhappy with the way Halifax handled her application for a further  
advance. In addition to the points that Ms C already made she made some further comments 
in her email to us in May which I summarise  below:
Halifax didnt comply  with their regulations by asking for evidence of a years 
employment
Halifax emailed the wrong employer and delayed the process
The letter to the employer was emailed and not posted and when posted didnt get to 
the employer until Ms C requested recorded delivery.
Various employees  and not just one person were handling this application
Ms C fell into a higher  interest rate because of the delay.
Ms C feels she was unfairly treated and discriminated against
Ms C had to miss meal times,  make  extra  phone  calls and suffered stress
Ive looked carefully  at all the notes and documentation submitted in this complaint. This 
application started in March and did not complete until August. From the notes,  Halifax  
attempted to contact  Ms Cs employer. I cant criticise Halifax  for doing that as Halifax 
wanted to check  the affordability of the mortgage.  But clearly this application took longer 
than it should  and Im sure that Ms C had a degree of stress. I appreciate  that Ms C dealt 
with a number  of Halifax employees but that is not unusual.
Ref: DRN75282662Its not clear from the information I have as to what caused the delay was in obtaining the 
information from Ms Cs employers. It was clearly  not Ms Cs fault but I cant  be certain  that 
all the delay was the fault of Halifax. So I cant say that Halifax is at fault for all the trouble 
and upset that Ms C suffered. But I believe that Halifax should have monitored  the 
application more  closely. As for compensation, Halifax has offered to put Ms C in the 
financial position she would have been in if she had applied for the more favourable 
mortgage product  that she hoped to get by offering her £415.44. Its also offered £200 for 
her upset. That seems appropriate.
I agree  with Ms C that five months was too long a delay to await  the loan. But as I say above 
its not clear from the evidence I have that all the fault for all the delay  lay with Halifax. 
Halifax says that it wrote  several  letters to Ms Cs employer and provided the dates of those 
letters so its likely  to have  done  so. Ms C has provided no evidence that supports her view 
that she suffered  discrimination.  In those circumstances I believe  that Halifax has made a 
fair offer of compensation and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020..
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7528266