K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr W says Tesco  Personal  Finance  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says it wasnt  made  clear  that PPI was optional. He applied  for the card by 
post. Tesco has sent in a copy  of Mr Ws credit  card application form.  On it, theres a 
section about  PPI. To take out PPI, the customer wouldve had to select the box 
saying they wanted  it. The box couldve been  left blank if they didnt want  PPI. There  
is a tick in the box on Mr Ws application  selecting PPI. The box to select  card 
protection was left blank. So, I think it likely  that Mr W wouldve understood these 
were optional  products and he didnt have to take them. I think  it more  likely he opted 
to take PPI, completing the paperwork and signing the form to say he wanted  it. I can 
understand why he may not remember that now, given how much time has passed. 
As this was a postal  sale,  I cant see that Tesco recommended  the PPI to Mr W. So it 
didnt have to check that it was suitable for him. However, it still had to give him 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading, so that he could decide  for himself 
if the PPI was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
Mr W said he wouldve got full salary to cover him for 6 months and this wouldve 
reduced to half pay for up to 12 months if he was off work sick. He said he wouldve 
also been covered  for redundancy. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for his needs. He was eligible to take 
out the policy and it appeared affordable. I cant see that he was affected by any of 
the main exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy wouldve paid out on top 
of Mr Ws work benefits, allowing him to use these to meet his other household 
expenses. It wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per successful claim.  I think  this 
couldve been useful  to him, because he said he had no other means from which he 
could make his repayments. 
Mr W says the information he was given about  PPI wasnt clear, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. Its possible  the information  Tesco gave Mr W about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And, for the reasons Ive said,  it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So, I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Ws said, but these points dont change my decision.
This means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN76136612But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7613661