K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) were  irresponsible  in lending  her 
money and in the way they dealt  with her as a vulnerable customer. Mrs L is assisted in 
bringing her complaint to this service  by her niece, Mrs M.
background
Mrs L came  to us as she was unhappy with the response shed received from RBS when 
she complained.
RBS told Mrs L that overall  they could find no evidence theyd acted incorrectly.  They  said 
they could find no information that suggested  Mrs L had ever advised them  she was 
vulnerable or lacked  the capacity to manage her own accounts until their niece wrote to them 
in on 24 September  2018 and said if they didnt know  of the problem then they couldnt  do 
anything to help.  They invited her to make  them formally aware of the problems and 
signposted her to their Financial Difficulties Team (who had members of the Citizens  Advice  
Bureau working alongside them)  with a summary of the tools  they could offer to help 
customers avoid charges. They reviewed the charges on her current  account and waived, as 
a gesture of goodwill,  the unarranged  overdraft  fees charged in the most recent period. They  
said the overdraft  requests  shed made  over a number of years all met the required criteria 
at the time. 
In respect of Mrs Ls credit card account  RBS said the limit hadnt increased since  shed 
opened the account and the late payment charges which shed  incurred recently werent 
sufficient basis for them  to be concerned. They said the recent closure of the account was 
agreed with Mrs L as a method of preventing the minimum monthly payment increasing - as 
it ought to in line with the regulatory changes introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority - 
to help customers pay less interest  on their borrowing. And the closure  was the only way the 
bank could stop the increased minimum monthly payment. RBS also suggested ways in 
which Mrs L could enable  her niece to deal with the accounts on her behalf.
Our investigator found RBS had acted positively  and sympathetically when made  aware of 
Mrs Ls financial difficulties and mental  health problems. He also thought  it was difficult  to 
blame RBS for not identifying either of those issues without being notified.
Mrs L didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the case. She disagreed  that the 
bank werent informed she was potentially vulnerable  and that there were no triggers  
indicating her vulnerability. She said she was in no way discriminating and stating that 
individuals in receipt of certain  benefits should not be awarded  credit.  But she thought more 
rigorous checks should be conducted where  there  were those triggers and that wasnt  done  
here. She also thought as shed fulfilled  security and was in a fragile state  RBS should have 
been able to authorise her niece dealing with her accounts to prevent further detriment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in his letter 
giving his opinion  so I shant repeat that here.  Im afraid theres not a great  deal I can add to 
what the adjudicators  already told Mrs L - I think  hes covered most  points  quite clearly.  I 
Ref: DRN72591192agree with his analysis  and his overall  conclusions both in relation to the aspects  of this 
complaint which  we can consider and to the merits.
Ultimately its for a bank  to decide  what affordability criteria to apply and what  risk it was 
willing to take when it lends money. This service  wont generally interfere with that. But the 
industry rules and guidance  for lenders  although not giving a set list of checks - says 
checks must be proportionate and give examples of factors  to be considered.  
In respect of the lending decisions taken in the time frame Im considering here.  The records 
from RBS satisfy me that the checks they carried out here were reasonable and 
proportionate. Theres no evidence to show Mrs L made RBS aware  of her vulnerabilities 
and financial  difficulties  until she complained. And, I think, as soon as RBS were made of the 
problems their actions  were positive and sympathetic and in line with their responsibilities.  
I can appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs L and her niece  to have to go through  certain 
procedures in order for her niece  to be able to deal with theres accounts on Miss Ls behalf. 
But banks have to balance the need for third party access  or representation with keeping  a 
customers account secure. And, in this case,  Ive seen nothing to suggest that the banks 
procedures for enabling  access for Mrs Ls niece were unreasonable.
Given how strongly Mrs L feels about  whats happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
her dispute  with RBS informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Mrs L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7259119