K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him an HSBC Plus 
packaged bank  account in August 2009.  He paid a monthly fee for the account which  
provided several benefits in return.
Mr P has also complained that HSBC ignored his request for documentation  relating to his 
packaged account, and also ignored  his request to downgrade  his account to a free one.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  August 2019. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think Mr Ps Plus account  had been mis-sold, 
but I did think that HSBC  had failed to downgrade the account when Mr P asked it to. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. The party  that I referred to as 
Mr Ps Claims Management Company (CMC)  contacted me to let me know  it wasnt 
representing Mr P as a CMC, but that it was simply acting as a translator  for Mr P. Ive noted 
this point.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  given any new information or evidence in relation to the facts of the 
complaint, I havent  found any reason to alter the findings I reached in my provisional  
decision. 
For this reason, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I previously reached.  It 
follows that I dont  think the Plus account was mis-sold to Mr P, but I uphold  the complaint in 
relation to HSBC  not downgrading the account  when it should have.
putting things right
HSBC needs to put things  right. So I require HSBC to:
Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the Plus account  from June 2015 until it 
was downgraded.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P saved  money after June 2015 because of a better rate on his overdraft, loan or 
savings account  by having the Plus account and HSBC can show exactly  how much  
Mr P saved,  it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays  him. HSBC  must 
explain clearly and simply to Mr P how it has worked out any deductions.
Ref: DRN76161812 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in part 
and require HSBC  UK Bank Plc to put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76161813EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED AUGUST 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr Ps complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the packaged  bank account was mis-sold to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mr P was given  a fair choice when  he upgraded his account.
Mr P and his CMC have  made several points related to his choice to take the Plus account.  Im not 
persuaded, based on those  points, that Mr P remembers the sale or that the recollections are 
genuine. Ill explain why.
In the questionnaire Mr P and his representative  completed they said that Mr P was told he had to 
upgrade his account in order to take a loan / overdraft / mortgage although  thjey  didnt specify which  
of those products.  They also said that Mr P wasnt informed of free accounts,  and he didnt know he 
was paying for his account. But theyve also said that Mr P was told he wasnt eligible for a free 
account.
Its not logical to suggest  that Mr P was both told that he wasnt eligible for a free account, but also 
that he wasnt  told about  fee-free accounts. And the fact that Mr P did in fact have a fee-free  account 
for over two years before  upgrading to the Plus account further makes me think that the points he (or 
indeed his CMC) has raised may have become  confused  with the passing of time.
I dont think that HSBC  recommended the Plus account to Mr P. So it didnt have to check  if the 
account was suitable  for him based on his personal circumstances.
But HSBC had to give Mr P enough clear information about the account  for him to decide  if he wanted 
it. 
Firstly, Mr P says he didnt understand  English at the time, well enough to understand what he was 
agreeing to. But Mr P also says he took an interpreter to the bank with him. So I cant  agree  that a 
language barrier  meant  Mr P agreed to something that he didnt understand,  or that he didnt know 
what he was signing up for. 
Im also not persuaded  that Mr P took the account on the false promise of obtaining credit, as he said 
in his initial complaint. I cant see that he had an agreed overdraft limit and it also doesnt look like he 
took a mortgage with HSBC. Hes had several loans,  but none  of them were taken  around the time of 
sale; and if he was told he had to take the Plus account in order to take a loan, Id expect  that loan to 
be taken at the same time, or at least near to the time of the upgrade, and not over a year later.
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr P couldve been interested in some of the benefits of the Plus 
account and chose it because of these benefits. Two of the main  features of the account were 
worldwide travel insurance and fee-free overseas cash  withdrawals.  I cant  see that Mr P has made 
any claims using the travel insurance, but I cant see any reason that he couldnt  have if hed wanted 
to. I also think  its more likely than not that he knew about the accounts main benefits  after all, I 
dont think he or his translator would have agreed to change  to a fee-paying account  without getting 
something in return for the fee.
Ref: DRN76161814In addition to this, I think  its likely that HSBC sent a welcome pack after Mr P upgraded  his account, 
as it says it did. I acknowledge theres no proof that the welcome was delivered to, or received by Mr 
P, but its not commonplace for banks to send information using  tracked and signed services. And 
given the amount  of banks post that is delivered  correctly, I think  its more likely than not that Mr P did 
receive this pack, even  if he doesnt now remember that.
I accept that Mr P may not have used all the benefits  of the Plus account.  And with hindsight  he might 
not consider that it has been good value  for money to him. But this doesnt automatically mean  HSBC  
mis-sold the account, and so it isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint about  the way the 
account was sold.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt tell Mr P everything it should have about  the Plus account. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I do think  Mr P chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to. And I havent seen 
enough to make me think that Mr P wouldnt  still have taken the account  even if HSBC  had told him 
more about it. 
So, having considered everything, I dont think the HSBC Plus account  was mis-sold to Mr P. 
I now turn to the additional point Mr P has raised. He says he wrote  to HSBC to ask for information  
about the Plus accounts  travel insurance  policy in May 2014, which he didnt  receive. He also says 
that because of this, he asked HSBC to convert his account to a fee-free account  in June 2015, again 
by letter, and this wasnt done.
Our adjudicator asked HSBC about these requests  and it said it didnt have any record of the letters  
Mr P says he sent to HSBC.  It pointed out that Mr P wrote to HSBCs head office address in 2014. It 
also highlighted the fact that Mr P had an account review a few days  before sending the letter in 2014 
to request the travel insurance  documentation.
Mr P has provided  copies of the letters he sent to HSBC in 2014 and 2015. Indeed,  he did write to 
HSBCs main head office address in 2014, and this was shortly after his account review. But neither 
of these points make  me think Mr Ps letter shouldnt  have been actioned  by HSBC. After all, the 
address he wrote to is widely publicised by HSBC as its main address, and its not wrong  for Mr P to 
assume he could therefore  write to that address. I also think its reasonable that  considering hed 
recently had an account review  hed been reminded about the travel insurance provided  by his 
account. Mr P doesnt appear to have  been  dissatisfied at the point of sending  the first letter; it was 
simply a request for information.
The second  letter Mr P sent was around a year later and addressed to his account holding branch. 
This letter requested Mr Ps account to be downgraded, but this wasnt done.  Bearing  in mind  that 
HSBC said its possible Mr Ps first letter wasnt  picked up because  he wrote to the wrong address, I 
dont think the same reason  can apply  to the downgrade  request, given that Mr P sent the letter  to his 
branch.
I acknowledge that theres no proof Mr Ps letters were delivered to HSBC, but on balance, Im 
satisfied that he sent them. The sequence of events makes me think  its reasonable  for him to have 
requested the travel insurance documents when he did, and also asked for his account  to be 
downgraded when he didnt  receive those documents. And just because Mr P didnt make a complaint 
or follow up on his letters being ignored doesnt automatically mean he didnt send them.
For this reason I intend to uphold the complaint  in relation to this point. So I think  it would be 
reasonable for HSBC to put things right by refunding  the fees Mr P paid for his Plus account  from 
when he requested to downgrade it in June 2015, until it was actually downgraded in September 
2016.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7616181