K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc incorrectly told him that he would need to pay £10 
to make a Data Subject  Access Request.  And they failed to call him back to discuss  this 
when they said they would.
background
On 1 November  2018 Mr K telephoned Clydesdale and asked to make a Data  Subject 
Access Request (DSAR). The advisor he spoke to initially  told him that there would  be a £10 
charge for this.
Mr K complained that this was incorrect, and explained that he should  be able to request the 
data free of charge following new regulations that came into effect  earlier that year.  It was 
agreed this was the case and he could make his request free of charge. Mr K asked to 
speak to a manager, but no-one was available so he was promised a call back  within  an 
hour. But he didnt  receive  this.
Clydesdale agreed  their advisor  made  a mistake  when asking Mr K to pay a £10 fee. And 
they accepted that they had failed to call him back when they said they would. They  sent him 
a letter  apologising for this, and letting  him know that feedback  had been provided  to the 
area of the business at fault. 
Mr K was unhappy that Clydesdale didnt offer him any compensation for the upset their 
error caused him, and the time he had to spend  talking to them  about  it. So he brought  his 
complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the case and felt that the apology Clydesdale have given Mr K was 
sufficient to resolve his complaint. Mr K disagrees.  He thinks  Clydesdale should pay him £50 
compensation. So the case has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr K will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask Clydesdale to pay him £50 compensation. Ill explain why.
Clydesdale agree that they made mistakes here. Their advisor initially  gave Mr K some out 
of date information when they told him there would be a £10 charge to make a DSAR.  And 
they didnt call Mr K back when they said they would. 
What I need to consider is whether these mistakes warrant the payment of any 
compensation to Mr K. Clydesdale  feel that an apology is sufficient in the circumstances. But 
Mr K thinks  that to treat him fairly  they should  pay him £50 compensation for the alarm and 
distress these events caused  him, and the time and money he spent on the telephone call 
disputing the charge  with their advisor.
Ref: DRN76602662I appreciate this would  have  been a frustrating experience for Mr K. Hes told us he spent 
over 40 minutes on the telephone waiting to get through  to speak to an advisor,  and then 
talking to them about his request and disputing the information they gave  him about the 
charge. We did ask Mr K if he could  provide us evidence to support this and confirm the cost 
of the call. But he wasnt happy  to supply this to our adjudicator. I have no reason to doubt 
Mr Ks version of events  though. And Clydesdale havent provided any contradictory 
information about the call. So I accept what Mr K has told us about this call.
Weve asked Clydesdale if its possible to listen to a recording of this call, but unfortunately 
its not available.  However I understand that it was agreed during the course of this same  
call that the advisor  had made a mistake  about the charge. And whilst  I appreciate  the call 
would have lasted  a bit longer as a result of the dispute about the incorrect information  Mr K 
was initially given, I dont  think it would be fair to ask Clydesdale to pay him £50 
compensation for this. The mistake was quickly acknowledged. And Mr K was still able to 
make his DSAR the same  day. So whilst I understand  he was upset and alarmed that the 
advisor didnt realise that a DSAR could  now be made free of charge, I agree that an 
apology is sufficient when  considering  the overall  impact of their mistake.  
It would have been frustrating for Mr K when he didnt receive a call back  within  an hour as 
he was promised. Clydesdale have explained that their contact centre was very busy, so 
there was no-one  available  to speak to him at that time. Mr K contacted  them again himself 
the same  day, so I cant be sure whether Clydesdale would have called him back  later or 
not. But again, I think that an apology  is a fair and proportionate response  here.  
Mr K confirmed to our service  that hed received the information from his DSAR, but that he 
didnt think this contained details of all his accounts.  Clydesdale explained they had 
searched all of their systems thoroughly  but hadnt been able to find any other records. Our 
adjudicator asked Mr K for any additional information that might help the bank with their 
search, and asked Clydesdale to resend him the information from his DSAR. I feel this was a 
sensible suggestion.
I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. I understand he felt that as our 
adjudicator had agreed Clydesdale made  mistakes, he should receive compensation. I also 
agree that Clydesdale made mistakes too, but that doesnt mean  it should  pay Mr K financial 
compensation. I say this because in these individual circumstances, Clydesdale  have 
responded to his complaint reasonably and their apology is a fair response to the impact its 
mistakes had.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Jenette Lynch
Ref: DRN76602663ombudsman
Ref: DRN7660266