K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2006 to cover a mortgage.  Miss H says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BOS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Miss Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Hs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BOS didnt need  to tell Miss H 
about the commission it received - But in any event  BOS has offered to pay back some of 
the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs  to do anything more. Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BOS  made it clear that Miss H didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because Miss Hs original mortgage was taken out 10 years before 
the policy was sold. So I think  she wouldve  understood the policy was optional  as she 
didnt take it out when  they first took out her mortgage. Ive also seen a copy  of the 
welcome pack sent to Miss H which confirms she chose to take out the policy and 
provided details  on how to cancel the policy. 
Ref: DRN70169442BOS recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Miss Hs circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example  Miss H was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means  she still seems  to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Miss Hs employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.  And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect  her ability to claim.
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss H as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Miss H 
would have declined  the cover had BOS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Hs circumstances at the time of sale and despite  its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  she 
would have still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss H would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should  have  disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Hs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
Ref: DRN70169443non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BOS  didnt need to disclose the commission  it received  but in 
any event BOS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres  nothing  more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Miss Hs representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Miss H should get back all the money she paid for the policy  
because: BOS failed to tell Miss H about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, 
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss H wouldnt have taken out the policy  
had they known about the level of commission and she should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BOS has told us that the commission for Miss Hs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BOS has worked  this out and based  
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Hs case  was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BOS needed to tell Miss H about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BOS treated Miss H unfairly. 
This means  BOS doesnt need to pay Miss H back any of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BOS  has offered to give back to Miss H some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Miss H as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think  it needs to do anything more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN70169444my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Hs complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss H paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. 
BOS should now make arrangements to pay Miss H if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7016944