K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that repairs to her husbands  mobile phone by Society of Lloyds under her 
contents insurance have apparently caused further damage and voided the warranty on the 
phone.
background
In September  2017 Mrs B made a claim for her husbands mobile phone as the screen had 
cracked. Lloyds arranged repairs and the phone was returned. In January 2018 the phones 
battery developed  a fault, and Mrs B took it in for repair  under  the warranty.  However on 
inspection it was noted that the battery had swollen indicating that it had been reused 
multiple times. The repair centre determined that it had had unauthorised repairs carried  out 
which had voided  the warranty. It said that the phone could be repaired but at a cost of £95.
Mrs B complained to Lloyds, who determined that the repair carried  out to the screen hadnt 
caused the subsequent  fault. It acknowledged that it had used unauthorised (by the 
manufacturer) repairers, but denied that they had removed or replaced the battery.  As Mrs B 
couldnt categorically say that the repair had caused the subsequent damage, it declined  to 
make any payment towards  the repair.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that it was likely that the repairers  employed  
by Lloyds had removed or replaced  the battery with an inferior one and that it was likely that 
it had swelled due to this unauthorised work. So he said that Lloyds should pay the cost of 
repair and £100  compensation  to Mrs B.
Lloyds disagreed; it said that the report from the repair centre said the battery hadnt been 
replaced. In any event its understanding is that the warranty  is only voided if the 
unauthorised repair  caused the damage. Its repairers had only replaced the screen.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under any contents claim, where  the insurer has opted to repair  the item, it has to carry out 
an effective repair. On the face of it that hasnt  been done here.
The report  from the approved repair centre identified the following issues:
the back glass had been replaced with non-approved tape.
superglue had been used to fit the back glass.
there were signs of dust and debris  due to battery lifting.
the battery was swollen, it also had multiple different tapes on the rear side indicating 
it had been reused  multiple times, this was removed for safety reasons.
the device  had had unauthorised rework and the battery had swollen due to reuse in 
unauthorised repairs.
Ref: DRN76974192Because it determined  that the unauthorised repair had caused the damage,  the 
manufacturer said the warranty had been  voided.  I cant see that the report says the battery  
wasnt replaced. This was indicated  in a subsequent email but I dont think  thats right.
Lloyds hasnt had its own report carried out for the phone. It did confirm that its repairers 
arent authorised by the manufacturer of the phone. It referred  the matter back  to those 
repairers who denied  the battery had been removed. They agreed that non-approved tape 
had been used, but said it was as good  as if not better than the approved  tape. They denied 
using superglue.
The phone was bought new in March  2017.  I discount the possibility that Mrs B had other 
repairs carried out to the phone or replaced  the battery herself in between  the insured repair 
and taking it in for the warranty repair. Or that she would have had cause to replace the 
battery herself before claiming for the cracked screen. I would have thought that due to the 
state of the battery, Lloyds repairers  would have  noticed that.
There is no absolutely clear indication  when and how the battery came to be in the condition  
noted. I have to rely on the technical expertise  of those  who have inspected the phone. As 
Ive said, Lloyds could  have had the phone inspected but chose not to do so. There  may be 
a case for arguing with the manufacturer about the warranty but that would in my view 
involve further  expert  evidence.  In light of the relatively small cost of repairing the phone I 
dont think it would be fair to expect  Mrs B to do that. In light of the expert  evidence  I think  it 
likely that the warranty  was voided because  of the repairs carried  out by Lloyds.
So Lloyds should pay the cost to Mrs B of getting the phone repaired,  that is £95. It should 
also pay her £100  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to pay to Mrs B £95 for the cost of 
repairs to her phone and £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her, a total of 
£195.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7697419