K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains, via a family member that his broker, Endsleigh Insurance  Services  Ltd 
(EIS), has unfairly increased the premium for his motor insurance  policy  mid-term by over 
£700 because  he changed his occupation and needed to drive  his car to and from work.
background 
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision,  and have  summarised 
that as follows.
Mr M took out his policy via EIS in September 2017  when  he was a student and paid the 
premium by monthly instalments. Mr M was involved in an accident  in February 2018 and as 
part of the claims process EIS said it found  that Mr M had stopped being a student and had 
a job. It said that as his job and what he used  his car for had changed this needed to be 
corrected on his policy. EIS told Mr M he needed to pay an additional premium of over £700 
for the remainder of the policy year, which included its £30 admin fee.
Mr Ms representative complained to EIS on his behalf and said the additional premium was 
a disgrace as it penalised Mr M for finding  a job. She thought theres  no difference in his 
driving to and from college to his driving  to and from work. She said that since  the accident 
Mr M has changed jobs and doesnt  now use his car for work. EIS said this information 
meant it could reduce  Mr Ms premium by £16 for the year.  
Mr Ms representative said EIS wanted  to take the extra premium over three months which  
meant that a huge direct  debit payment was taken from her account without her knowledge. 
EIS said it offered to spread the additional premium over the remaining monthly payments of 
Mr Ms policy year and it went  ahead with this when  it got no response to its letter  and email 
to Mr M. But it said that the additional premium wasnt paid and the policy was cancelled.  
Mr Ms representative said EIS is still pursuing  Mr M for the additional  premium.
EIS said it sold the policy  to Mr M on a non-advised basis with no recommendations. It 
administers the policy, but the insurer sets the premium. EIS said it checked  the additional 
premium to Mr M and this was correct.  It said a change of occupation is fundamental to the 
risk of a policy and Mr M had a large  discount  as a student but then used his car to go to 
work for which he wasnt insured. EIS said its told by insurers  to make mid-term adjustments  
and charge the new premium and this included change  of use. EIS said it hadnt declined 
Mr Ms claim  or reduced the settlement as a consequence of his not being correctly  insured.
my provisional findings and the parties responses 
I said that I would consider as a separate complaint whether or not the insurer  assessed 
Mr Ms premiums  fairly when it applied the additional premium. In the present complaint I 
considered if the amount EIS has added  to the additional premium is fair.
EIS told Mr M that in order to amend the policy for his occupation and change of use an 
additional premium  of £707.84  was required. This was made up of additional premium from 
the insurer, and £274.77 from EIS, and its standard £30 admin fee. I thought the admin fee 
was clear from the policy and was fair.
EIS accepted - that when selling the policy - it didnt make it clear that it would add a large 
additional amount on top of any premium increase if Mr M needed to make any changes.  I 
Ref: DRN73114022didnt think EIS had provided Mr M with clear enough information to enable  him to make  an 
informed decision at the time he bought  his policy.  
I said additional charges should  be proportionate  to the task EIS carried  out. EIS showed 
that when it sold the policy it added on an amount representing a fairly low percentage uplift 
to the insurers  base premium. But when the insurer changed the premium the additional 
uplift EIS applied was much higher. I thought there  would be more work required in setting 
up a policy, than amending it. And EIS hadnt shown that the increased rate at mid-term was 
required by the adjustment  of Mr Ms policy. I thought that the increase occurring at mid-term 
of the policy  was disadvantageous to Mr M rather than at the start when  he had more 
freedom of choice.
I thought it would be fair and reasonable for EIS to apply the same amount as when it set up 
the policy. This would  mean that EIS reduces the charge it has notified to Mr M. However,  I 
said this would be subject  to the outcome of Mr Ms complaint against  the policy insurer. 
Ive looked at what EIS told Mr M about the additional premium and his options. EIS wrote to 
Mr M saying  that he needed  to pay the additional premium either in full or added to his 
monthly instalments.  EIS said it only imposed  the increase on the insurance  instalments 
when there  was no response  from Mr M. I think this was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr M and EIS accepted  the outcome of the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and having  received  
nothing further  from the parties about the complaint I remain of the view that the complaint 
should be upheld  and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
Since the provisional decision  was sent, I have  reviewed  Mr Ms complaint against his 
insurer. I have upheld  that complaint and require the insurer  to cancel the additional  
premium it applied to Mr Ms policy mid-term. This means there is no longer an additional 
premium on which EIS can apply its own percentage uplift and EIS should  cancel this 
charge. EIS may still apply its standard £30 administration fee to Mr M for making the 
changes to his policy mid-term.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above the complaint is upheld. I require Endsleigh Insurance  
Services Ltd to remove  from Mr Ms account the charge it applied to the additional premium 
from the insurer at mid-term. This does  not affect Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltds £30 
administration charge.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73114023
Ref: DRN7311402