K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limiteds  decision to decline 
their home insurance claim for storm damage  and about the way it handled their complaint.
background
Following storm  conditions  at the start of January 2018 Mr and Mrs P noticed water was 
entering their home and that their roof had been damaged. They called a roofer to inspect 
what might  be causing  it and to repair any damage found. 
The following  day Mr and Mrs P called Lloyds  to make a claim under their policy  for storm 
damage. Mr and Mrs P told Lloyds  that their roofer was at the house and had quoted £2,200 
to repair  the damage. Lloyds told Mr and Mrs P that it couldnt accept the claim without 
inspecting the damage first and it offered to send out its own contractor.  Lloyds asked Mr 
and Mrs P what the quote covered  and they said it was for broken old tiles. Lloyds told them 
that the policy didnt provide cover for damage  caused by wear  and tear. Mr and Mrs P said 
it wasnt a wear and tear issue, and asked Lloyds to speak to their roofer  which it did. Lloyds 
It told him that it would  need to see photographs of the damage and a cause of damage 
report before  considering  whether to accept his quote.
Photographs were sent to Lloyds the next day. Having  looked at the photographs Lloyds told 
Mr and Mrs P that the damage wasnt covered because it thought it was the result of wear  
and tear. Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with Lloyds decision.
When the roofers cause  of damage report  and invoice  was received Lloyds reviewed the 
whole claim again  but it still thought it wasnt covered by the policy. It rang Mr and Mrs P and 
left a message  that said it was maintaining its decision to decline their claim. About a week 
later Mrs P rang Lloyds  to ask what was happening  as they hadnt heard anything. Lloyds 
said it had left them a message and that the claim remained declined.  
Mr and Mrs P complained to Lloyds.  Lloyds looked  into their complaint but didnt think  itd 
made the wrong decision. It said the storm had highlighted  the condition  of the roof. It 
apologised for leaving  them  a message rather than discussing the declined  claim with them 
personally over the phone. It sent them a cheque for £25 to compensate them for any 
trouble and upset  this had caused.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds' investigation, Mr and Mrs P complained to this service.  
Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt think  Lloyds had unfairly  declined  the 
claim. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators conclusion and asked for their 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate that it will come  as 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy covers them for damage caused to their home by a one-off storm 
event. It is the storm that must be the principal cause of the damage if the claim is to be 
covered by the policy terms.  If the damage  is caused by wear  and tear, it isnt covered by the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN75328312This service has a long established approach to considering complaints about claims for 
storm damage. It generally  takes  into consideration the following questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date the problem  occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing  storm  conditions  the main cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
It is not in dispute  that there  was a storm on the night the damage  occurred. So the answer 
to the first question is yes. 
The answer to the second  question is also yes  storms can cause  the type of damage  Mr 
and Mrs P claimed for. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs P the answer  to question 3 is no. I accept that the damage 
occurred during the storm but that doesnt  automatically mean  the storm itself was the main 
cause of the damage. I say this because Ive reviewed all the available  evidence  and, in 
particular, the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs Ps roofer. It is from these,  and the detail 
on their roofers  invoice,  that Lloyds based its decision to decline their claim (having been 
unable to inspect  the damage  itself).  The photographs show that the felt is worn and cracked 
in places. Some chipboard beneath the felt has deteriorated, in one area exposing a roof 
beam beneath. Tiles and ridge  tiles have broken away and mortar has crumbled and shows 
signs of ageing. I can also see that the lead flashing  around the chimney is lifting
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by home  insurance. The different forms of 
damage I mentioned  above are all types  of damage that happen  over a longer period of time 
as a result  of wear  and tear. If the main  cause of damage is wear and tear then the policy 
excludes it from being covered. So it wouldnt be reasonable in these circumstances to say 
that the main  cause  of damage  was the storm when the photographs Ive seen show  
otherwise. 
So unfortunately for Mr and Mrs P, the damage their roof sustained isnt covered by their 
policy. This means that I dont think that Lloyds has unfairly declined  their claim.
I know that Mr and Mrs P have said that this service shouldve gathered  its own independent 
evidence in order to verify  their account  of events.  That isnt how this service  operates.  We 
are an impartial dispute resolution service  that provides fair and reasonable resolutions to 
consumer complaints having  taken  into account all the evidence provided to us. 
And this service cant look at every  complaint that it receives. Only those permitted by the 
rules under which we operate can be looked at. Complaints about  how a financial business  
handled a complaint arent something we can look into. 
But Ive thought about whether Lloyds provided Mr and Mrs P with poor customer  service 
and I can see that it admitted that it did by failing  to make sure it communicated its final 
claims decision to them directly. It has apologised to Mr and Mrs P for this and paid them  
compensation of £25 for any trouble and upset this caused them. I think  thats fair and is in 
line with awards this service has made in similar  circumstances. Ive thought too about  the 
customer service  in general that Mr and Mrs P received from Lloyds  when they made their 
claim and Im satisfied they were  reasonably treated. 
Ref: DRN75328313my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7532831