K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. To be clear, 
this complaint refers  to PPI on Mr Gs credit card ending 4025 (previously 2254). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs signed credit  agreement. On it there is a section related to 
PPI and the box opting for the policy has a handwritten tick in it. Mr G has signed the 
credit agreement  so I think its likely  to reflect what he wanted. And theres  nothing  on 
the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory.  So on balance I think  its likely Halifax 
made it clear that Mr G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand  why he cant remember  this.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr G says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve paid 
out for up to 10 months if he lost his job. So I think he wouldve found  the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
done so already. 
Ref: DRN76090622my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609062