K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2006. Mrs J says Glyn Hopkin Ltd mis-sold the PPI.
background
Mrs J took out hire purchase  agreement in 2006.  The amount of credit was £13, 711.46 to 
be repaid over 60 months. At the same time Mrs J was sold the PPI to protect  her monthly  
repayments. The PPI could have paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the monthly loan 
repayment of £359.99  for the remaining term of the agreement if Mrs J could not work due to 
an accident or ill-health.  The policy could also have  paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mrs J had lost her job. In addition  the policy  included  life cover  and critical illness 
cover meaning the balance of the loan would be repaid if Mrs J had died or suffered a 
serious illness. The monthly premium for the policy was £54.91.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Glyn Hopkin hasnt  been able to show us a copy of the original  paperwork completed  at the 
time of the sale. The lender does not have copies either. This isnt unusual  and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information,  I will make my decision  based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Glyn Hopkin has shown  us a copy of a form called a demands and needs statement which 
it says would have  been in use at the time the policy was sold to Mrs J. Its also given us a 
copy of a Payment  Protection  Plan (PPP)  application form which it says dates from 2006. 
Payment Protection  Plan was the name Glyn Hopkin used for its version of PPI. Looking  at 
the forms I think it is likely Mrs J saw these,  or similar forms, when she was sold the PPI.
I can see the application form has a statement which reads:
I/We wish to take out PPP (tick one box only)
Beside this statement are two boxes marked Yes  and No which  could be ticked.
Below this statement the application form sets out four levels of cover  together  with the 
monthly cost and total cost of the cover. The application form asks for one of the boxes  to be 
ticked if PPI was required.
The demands and needs form is made up of a series of questions  with yes and No 
answers and was designed to check the applicant was eligible and what  type of cover they 
required.
Ref: DRN79193562Both forms would need to have been  signed  by the consumer.
Mrs J recalls that she was told she had to take out the PPI in order  to obtain the credit.  Ive 
thought about this but the paperwork I think she was likely to have seen  at the time indicates 
that the PPI was optional.
Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Glyn Hopkins made  Mrs J aware 
the policy was optional and she chose to buy it.
Glyn Hopkin recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  it was right for her, and based  
on what Ive seen of her circumstances I think it was.
Mrs J was working and was eligible for the cover, so she could have made a claim if she had 
needed to.
The policy would have contained some exclusions and limitations, but it doesnt  look like   
Mrs J was affected by any of these. For example she didnt have any existing medical 
conditions which may not have  been covered.
Mrs Js employer would have paid her sick pay for some  time. But the loan was taken out for 
a five-year term and this particular policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for the remaining  
term of the loan if she became unable to work. And thats likely to have been  longer than   
Mrs Js sick pay would  last. So I still think Mrs J could have found the policy  useful, 
especially if she was unable to work  for a prolonged period.
Mrs J has told us she could have taken  early retirement if she became too unwell  to work. 
But its likely that if she did so her income would reduce so despite this I think she had a 
need for the cover.
I note Mrs J has told us about a separate policy she had which  gave her life cover and 
critical illness cover. But Mrs J was taking on a new loan, so the cover provided by the PPI 
policy would mean  her existing policy could be used  for its original purpose.
From what  Ive seen the cost of the policy was likely  to have been made clear to Mrs J and 
Ive not seen any evidence that the premiums  were unaffordable.
So I think the policy recommended by Glyn Hopkin was likely right for her.
Its possible the information Glyn Hopkin gave  Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But thats not enough  to uphold this complaint. I need to decide  whether or 
not Mrs J would have  changed her mind  about buying the policy  if shed been  given  better or 
clearer information. For the same reasons as I think the policy  was right for her, I dont think  
any clearer information would have put her off buying the policy.  
In summary,  I think Glyn Hopkin likely made it clear the policy was optional  and Mrs J chose 
to take it out. I think the policy was right for her, given her circumstances at the time. And I 
dont think any clearer information  about the policy would have caused Mrs J to act 
differently and decline the policy.
Mrs J has told us she was diagnosed with a serious  illness in 2009  and claimed  on her other 
critical illness policy which paid out. She used part of the pay-out to clear this hire purchase 
agreement but never  claimed on the PPI policy that Glyn Hopkin sold her. It may be that   
Ref: DRN79193563Mrs J is still able to make a backdated  claim on the PPI policy. If Mrs J wishes to do so she 
should contact  the policy insurers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against             
Glyn Hopkin Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7919356