K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Black Horse Limited  trading as Black Horse  Finance has unfairly 
rejected her loan application.
background
Mrs R says she applied for a Black Horse  loan but the application  was rejected. She says 
the repayments would have been less than her previous Black Horse loan and her 
circumstances hadnt changed. Mrs R questions how her previous loan could be affordable 
but the new application is deemed unaffordable.  She says shes  been treated unfairly.
Black Horse  says Mrs Rs credit score has changed  from the previous application to the 
latest one and says it assessed the application  as unaffordable. It says its entitled to make  
such business decisions and says Mrs Rs credit file has details of an arrangement  with a 
utility supplier. It also says that due to regulatory  changes its lending criteria  has changed.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs Rs financial position had changed  slightly  and provided her with those  details. 
The investigator thought it was up to Black Horse to make such  commercial business 
decisions about who to lend to in any event.  She also thought Mrs Rs credit score had 
changed since the previous loan was taken out.
Mrs R doesnt accept  that view and says she was told the utility arrangement wouldnt affect 
her credit file. She disputes the existing credit payments Black Horse  says she has and 
would like to know where it got those figures from. Mrs R says she wants answers from 
Black Horse  and an investigation carried out as she believes fabricated figures have been 
used to assess her application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs R will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened. I should also 
explain that our role isnt to carry out an investigation into Black Horse and that we are not 
the regulator of Black  Horse.
Im satisfied that its up to Black Horse to make  such commercial  business decisions about 
to whom it lends to. So I cant fairly interfere in those sorts  of business decisions or tell it that 
it should have  lent money to someone. Im also satisfied that Black Horse  has fairly 
explained why it decided to reject Mrs Rs application.
I appreciate that Mrs R will remain  frustrated  by my decision  and I also accept her point that 
if the previous  loan was affordable then why wouldnt the latest  one. But as Ive explained  I 
dont think that matters as I think its up to Black Horse to decide  such  matters. I also think  it 
likely that Black Horse has considered the reduction  in Mrs Rs credit score and the slight 
reduction in her income as well as the arrangement she entered into with her former utility  
supplier. I accept that Mrs R says she was told that the arrangement  she entered  into would 
not affect her credit file. But thats not something  I can fairly hold Black  Horse responsible 
for. And Mrs R would need  to raise that issue with the business that told her that, as I think 
such an arrangement  would be likely to affect  a credit score.
Ref: DRN74933682Overall Im satisfied Black Horse  has dealt fairly  with Mrs Rs complaint and is reasonably 
entitled to take the action it did. For the reasons  Ive explained I cant fairly order it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint or to provide Mrs R with any further 
information about the reasons why it rejected  her loan application. I also dont think  it matters 
where information about Mrs Rs financial position came  from and I also make clear  that Ive 
not seen any evidence that the information  used  by Black Horse to asses  the application 
was fabricated  in any way. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7493368