K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. He paid a monthly premium for PPI, 
which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr M in case he was off work sick or lost his job. It 
cost around £27 per month and covered his monthly  mortgage repayment of around  £550 
per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to consider.
Mr M said, in summary, Bank of Scotland had not provided any evidence  to show that 
PPI was not mis-sold. He said it had unfairly been  given the benefit of the doubt despite  
the fact that his records show that PPI was mis-sold.  He said if the mortgage  product 
included PPI, it wouldve  been reasonable to expect this to be outlined and priced in the 
mortgage offer. Given the general  environment  of mis-selling that prevailed  at the time, 
Mr M is most  concerned  about the benefit  of the doubt being given to Bank of Scotland.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
As some of the evidence in Mr Ms case is either incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made a 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened  based on whats available.
I am not upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
This policy was sold over 20 years ago. Neither  Mr M nor Halifax have a copy now of all 
the paperwork from the time of sale. Thats not surprising given how much  time has 
passed. Under data protection  rules,  Halifax had to dispose of Mr Ms data rather  than hold 
on to it for too long.   
Mr M has helpfully sent in a copy of his mortgage offer. I can see that it said this about 
mortgage payment  protection:
Special Note
The society  strongly  advises all borrowers  to consider arranging insurance  cover to protect 
their ability to maintain  their mortgage repayments in the event of sickness, accident or 
unemployment. Details of such mortgage  payment protection schemes can be obtained  
from any Halifax branch or your financial adviser.
YOUR HOME  IS AT RISK  IF YOU DO NOT KEEP UP ON REPAYMENTS ON A 
MORTGAGE OR OTHER LOAN SECURED ON IT.
Ref: DRN71290492Its clear from the paperwork that Mr M was strongly  advised to take PPI. But, its also 
clear from this that PPI was optional and the mortgage was not conditional  on it in anyway. 
So, I dont find it surprising that PPI was not automatically included  in the mortgage offer. 
As it see it, the mortgage offer evidences the fact that Bank of Scotland made customers  
aware that mortgage payment protection  was a separate  product, and if they wanted to 
they could ask for details of it. Based on this alone,  I cant  fairly say that Halifax gave Mr M 
misleading information about the optional nature of PPI. I also dont share Mr Ms view that 
a communication  of this nature was bordering on being coercive.
Mr M says he cant say how the policy was sold to him, although he recalls the mortgage 
offer arriving  by mail. Bank of Scotland cant now say exactly how the policy was sold 
either. So, its feasible PPI couldve been sold at a meeting with the bank. I have therefore  
gone on to consider whether something  further  may have been  said at a meeting about 
PPI.  
I cant know what was discussed with Mr M at the time. Any meeting wouldve taken place 
over 20 years ago and whilst I accept that Mr M is trying to recall events as best he can, 
memories can fade over time. I am also conscious that the sale of insurance  may not often 
be memorable. 
When Mr M complained to Bank of Scotland in October  2018,  he said he was strongly  
advised to take out the insurance policy, and was led to believe it was compulsory. When 
he made his complaint to this service in April 2019,  he said the insurance  was not 
presented plainly on the offer documentation,  and this was because  he didnt ask for cover.  
He concluded  from this the repayment  insurance was included  without  his knowledge.  
These two positions  seem  to me to be at odds with one another.  If the PPI was presented 
to him as compulsory, Mr M wouldnt  have  had any choice but to have  PPI. Whereas, if it 
was added without  his knowledge because he didnt  ask for it, that presupposes there was 
some choice, but that choice wasnt put to him.
It wouldve been  a very serious failing for Halifax  to have added the PPI without Mr Ms 
permission, or to have  misled him into thinking  it was compulsory. From dealing with other 
cases, Ive not seen  any wider problems with Bank of Scotlands sales  process  from around  
this time. And based on the available  paperwork,  I dont have enough to fairly  conclude  that 
Bank of Scotland misled  Mr M here. I think its more likely that it followed a fairly standard  
sales process, it gave Mr M a choice, and he selected PPI  even if, understandably, he no 
longer recalls doing so after so long. So, I cant fairly uphold Mr Ms complaint on this 
ground.
As Bank of Scotland cant say from its records exactly how the policy  was sold to Mr M, 
its not clear whether  it recommended the PPI to Mr M, or not. Mr M said it was 
recommended to him. He may be right about that. The requirements were stricter on 
Bank of Scotland if it did recommend it.  To be fair to Mr M, Bank of Scotland has 
assumed, as have  I, that Mr M was recommended to take PPI. That means Bank  of 
Scotland had to check the policy  was right for Mr M. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible to take out the policy;
I cant see that it was unaffordable;
It was a monthly paid policy which Mr M couldve cancelled at any time without 
losing out financially  if he chose to do so;
Ref: DRN71290493He wasnt affected by any of the main things that mightve meant  that cover  was 
limited or excluded, such as having a pre-existing medical  condition  or being 
self-employed. As Mr M appeared to be able to benefit from everything  the 
policy offered, I cant see that having  better  information wouldve led to him not 
taking out the policy;
Mr M said he wouldve got around  three to six months worth  of sick pay if he 
was unable to work.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of his work based  
benefits and possibly for longer,  for up to 12 months per successful claim. Given  
that the policy was protecting Mr Ms home and he could  make  repeated  claims 
on the policy, I still think the policy couldve provided him with useful protection.  
It wouldve also covered  him for involuntary unemployment too. 
Mr M also said he had around three  to six months worth of pay in savings. The 
policy wouldve allowed  him to hold on to these to meet other  household  
expenditure if he wasnt working.  So, I cant  see that these other resources  
made the policy unsuitable for him. 
Mr M pointed out that the general  job market  was buoyant  at the time. But, thats 
something that we can only be assured with the benefit of hindsight. 
Redundancies and long periods of unemployment can happen,  even in buoyant  
job markets. The mortgage  was a long-term commitment, and there  was no 
guarantee that Mr M would have the same employment situation,  benefits, or 
savings in the many years  to come. Indeed Mr M has said that he later became 
self-employed. If Mr M had fallen behind on his mortgage payments, he couldve 
lost his home and it may have been  difficult for him to get a mortgage in the 
future. So it seems  reasonable for him to have taken out the cover to protect 
possibly his largest asset.
Mr M also said that his parents wouldve supported him, so he had no need for 
PPI. Whilst I accept  that his parents may have wanted to, I have not placed any 
reliance on this as help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  So, I need to consider whether better information was likely to have 
changed Mr Ms mind about taking  out the PPI. I cant see that it wouldve for the 
reasons explained above. The policy appeared suitable and I think probably Mr M said 
he wanted the cover. Overall, I dont  think that better information was likely to have put 
Mr M off taking  out the cover.  So, I cant see that Mr M has lost out because of anything 
that Halifax couldve done better.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7129049