K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc changed  her account and in the process it also 
changed the way her account was recorded on its systems. She complains it did this without 
her permission or knowledge.
Miss K is represented in her complaint by Mr K.
background
In May 2018  BoS decided to change  Miss Ks account from one type of account to another 
one. Miss K is a minor, so the original account was held in trust for her as was the new one. 
Her father was the trustee for the original account,  however, when BoS changed the account 
it mistakenly added  her mother as the trustee and removed  her father.
When Miss Ks representative  complained about this, BoS accepted it had made  a mistake.  
It removed Miss Ks mother  as the trustee and reinstated her father. It explained what it had 
done and why and it also paid £350 to make up for what had gone wrong. But Miss Ks 
representative suggested this did not go far enough.  He asked for a better explanation and 
he indicated that he thinks £800 is more like the amount Miss K should  get here. Later, he 
also suggested that he had made a loss because he had wanted to take a holiday and had 
not been able to do so because he could not get access to the money in Miss Ks account
BoS thought the explanation  it had already provided  was adequate and it wasnt prepared  to 
offer any more money, so Mr K on Miss Ks behalf, came to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding Miss Ks complaint. In short,  he thought  that 
BoS had done enough to set out why it had made the mistake and the compensation already 
paid by BoS was fair and reasonable.
BoS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr K acting for Miss K did not. In short, at 
first, Mr K responded on Miss Ks behalf  to say that the £350 did not reflect the 
embarrassment and inconvenience experienced by him and he gave details of this. Further, 
he disagreed that BoS had provided  a good  enough explanation of why this mistake  had 
happened. He replied  a second time saying Miss K had been  disappointed to have not gone 
on what was a long-promised holiday.  He suggested BoS ought to have organised itself 
better so that this sort of mistake didnt happen.  Specifically, he suggested that BoS had not 
treated Miss Ks personal data with sufficient care. In his opinion, the process was so flawed, 
that the account could have been linked  to a complete  stranger. This did not actually 
happen, but he thought  it could have potentially and this caused both him and Miss K 
distress.
Mr K on behalf of Miss K asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Miss Ks 
complaint. I find I have no proper basis to ask BoS to take any further action. Ill explain 
below why have  come to this conclusion.
Ref: DRN72009642First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The parties all agree that BoS made a mistake in how it set up Miss Ks account on its 
systems. Mr K suggests that up until now Miss K has not received a clear  enough  account  of 
what went wrong. I can well understand why Miss K might want to know why changing her 
account might have led to this error.  But I also think,  looking at what BoS has said it has 
given her an adequate response. Although it seems it cant pinpoint precisely why it got 
things wrong. It has been able to tell her that in the process of updating her records  on its 
systems it added the wrong parents details to her account. Its not clear what  further  
information might satisfy Miss K or that there is any further information to give.  In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  there is anything else that I can fairly and reasonably ask BoS to 
do here.
I can see Mr K is unhappy about the treatment he has received  from BoS and the way it has 
made him feel at times. He talks about being treated  with suspicion which  I can well 
understand might have  been very unpleasant  and felt unfair. However,  it is his daughter  
rather than he who is the eligible  complainant,  here. So, while I recognise the strength of 
Mr Ks feelings, I have no power to compensate him for this. And even  if I did have that 
power, which I dont, Id not ask BoS to increase  its offer as it has already offered what  I find 
to be a fair and reasonable  award.
If I was satisfied that BoSs actions led to Miss Ks disappointment and that this was 
reasonably foreseeable I might think it fair and reasonable to say BoS had to make  an award 
to make up for this. But Im not persuaded that BoSs mistake led to the cancellation of the 
holiday. It was not that neither parent had access to the money  in the account. Rather, it was 
just that Miss Ks mother would have had to get the money out rather than Miss Ks father. 
Mr K has not said why this could  not have happened especially since  both parents 
apparently were aware that this was a holiday that Miss K very much  wanted. Further,  Ive 
seen no details about the holiday, that it was booked or in the process of being  booked and 
then was cancelled.  That said,  BoS took several months to sort out what was a seemingly 
simple administrative mistake. I think it is fair and reasonable it should  pay something to 
reflect this. However,  I think the award  it has made  makes up for this.
Mr K is correct  to point out that personal data must be treated with care. But I dont agree 
that because BoS made this mistake this shows it could just have easily linked Miss Ks 
account to a complete stranger with a similar surname which is what Mr K suggests. In any 
event Mr K and more to the point his daughter seem  to be worrying  about something that 
they think could  have occurred potentially but never  did. Ive no proper basis for 
compensating Miss K for an event that did not come to pass.
Ref: DRN72009643For all of these reasons, I think it is not fair and reasonable to ask BoS to either  provide a 
further better  explanation or increase the offer it has already made  and seemingly paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7200964