K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs J bought the PPI in 1999 whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  The 
complaint has since  been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mrs J denies ever agreeing to take this cover  out. But these events are from 1999 and I 
was sent a copy of her credit card application. I can see the credit card application  form 
gave an obvious  choice to either have, or not have, the PPI, underneath  a heading which  
said Extra Optional  Services . Mrs J signed  her name next to a declaration about 
Cardholder Payment  Protection to add the PPI policy. She also signed the application  form 
at the bottom. 
Tesco also sent me copies of Mrs Js credit  cards statements which  show  she was being 
charged for Cardholder  Protection Plan. The costs were shown next to this description 
and I think if shed never asked for this PPI, she would have wanted to know what  the 
charges were for.
So Im afraid  I think there is strong and persuasive evidence she agreed to the policy.  She 
would also have been able to see it had been  set up on her account.
I note this was a postal  application and therefore not an advised sale. So Tesco didnt need 
to make sure the policy was suitable for her. The decision about  buying the cover was for 
Mrs J to make and she would have made her way through  the postal form without any 
intervention from Tesco.  
My experience of these  types of sale is that the application  was part of a wider  leaflet  based  
form which would have  also included some  brief details about the policy,  including the cost.  
So I think Mrs J would  have had enough information  on which  to make an informed decision. 
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more  clearly but I dont  think  
theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mrs J went on to do.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Js situation  and I think she was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy.  And at 
70p per £100 outstanding  on the card, I think the price of the PPI was affordable  for her.
Ref: DRN76964412Looking at the work Mrs J did, I agree that any sickness protection she had with her job 
would have been quite moderate. On the other hand, the PPI policy would have paid out 
10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim.  This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  she had at that time. So I think  this policy was 
of use.
Ive also considered all the other things Mrs J told us about  her circumstances, including  
some financial  policies  she had. But these covered different eventualities. Im sorry to 
disappoint her, but I think the evidence  clearly shows she chose the policy  herself and in her 
own time. She would  have been  able to see it wasnt something she needed to have.  She 
would have also subsequently been  to able see her credit card statements  were showing 
PPI being charged  on them.
This means  Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7696441