K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B feel that Go Car Credit Limited has treated them  unfairly in financing  a car for 
them of unsatisfactory  quality.
Background
In January 2020 I issued a provisional decision  saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Mr and Mrs B have responded to say they disagree  with my position. 
Go Car Credit Limited  has said it has paid the award  I provisionally  awarded in my 
provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they agree  with my position regarding the gearbox. But they say 
they dont agree with my position on the steering rack alignment. Mrs B particularly says she 
wouldnt have realised  there was a problem with it because shed only recently passed her 
driving test. She wants either the remaining  finance written off or for Go Car to fix or pay for 
the fixing of the steering issue. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B have  said. However it is clear that this issue wasnt  
identified at the point of sale or when it was returned to the garage who took the car for a 
test drive. Its also clear a car with significant  mileage  was driven a further fourteen thousand 
miles before this issue was identified.  
I must decide on the balance of probabilities and I dont think  the steering rack was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when the car was sold. I think it more likely that this issue  arose  after 
the point of sale considering the evidence available.
So all in all Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs arguments and I dont think  anything  
theyve said means I should  change any aspect  of my provisional  decision. And as Go Car 
has said it has paid the cost of the seatbelt to Mr and Mrs B it has nothing further to do.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I uphold  this 
complaint about  Go Car Credit  Limited. As since my provisional decision it says it has paid 
the cost of the seatbelt repair to Mr and Mrs B it has nothing  further  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN75803412Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B feel that Go Car Credit Limited has treated  them unfairly in financing a car for them  of 
unsatisfactory quality.
background
Ill refer to Mrs B as she is representing herself and Mr B. 
Mrs B acquired a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement in March 2018.  The 
documentation from the sale shows that Mrs B took an extended  warranty covering up to 18 months / 
12,000 miles.  At the time of its purchase it was approximately five and a half years old and had driven 
over 87,000 miles.
The sales documentation notes that the rear middle  seat belt was to be replaced. There  are no other 
significant faults  noted  with the car in the finance documentation. Mrs B has provided a receipt  
showing she got the seatbelt replaced for a cost of £161.30 by another garage.  Go Car has said it will 
cover this cost to Mrs B on production of a receipt showing  that work  has been done.
Mrs B says within a few weeks she complained about  a noise in the car. The garage looked at it and 
thought it was the window making the noise. Around September time Mrs B took the car to a garage 
for new brakes and the garage said there was a gearbox and steering issue. Mrs B has since 
provided an independent  inspection report from September 2018 where the mileage was listed as 
101,769. 
This report shows there is clear evidence of a significant steering rack alignment  fault and evidence  
to indicate a failing transmission bearing  and the car has a potentially dangerous  rear seat belt 
restraint.  The inspector  goes on to say that he is of the opinion that the defects were  present, 
inherent or developing at the point of sale and the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality.
With regards to the engine transmission fault Go Car has said that the report deems it a significant 
fault but notes the cars mileage at the time of the report was 101767 miles and has since increased 
to 114767 miles in April 2019. It notes  that after the sale the car was driven for 14,011 miles in 
roughly six months which indicates excessive  usage . It also points to Mrs B taking the car to the 
supplying dealership and it was taken for a test drive and they found  no faults with the vehicle. Go 
Car sees the costs  quoted  as being to repair or maintain  wear  and tear items are considered normal 
costs associated  with used car motoring.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and determined that Go Car should  cover the cost of the 
seatbelt, repair or cover  costs of engine/transmission  issue and pay £350 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Go Car didnt agree and volunteered to pay for a new independent  report. As Go Car remains 
unhappy the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
I have considered Go Cars offer to pay for a new independent report  into the car. However  this 
matter has gone on for an extended period of time and both parties  need finality on this complaint. 
Furthermore I think I can reach a fair decision  without another  report. So I think  it preferable to all 
parties to issue a decision at this stage.
Ref: DRN75803413Having considered  what  has happened here I am still upholding  this complaint in part but am treating 
some aspects of this matter  differently to the findings of our investigator.  As a consequence Im 
issuing this provisional  decision in order to allow  both parties an opportunity  to consider and respond 
to my position. I shall deal with each of the key areas in turn. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I have  to 
base my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words,  what I consider is most likely  to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances.
Go Car are the supplier  of the car under  the Hire Agreement in place and so it is responsible for 
handling complaints about the quality  of the car it supplied. And considering  the relevant  law it is clear  
that the goods  (a car in this case) needs to be of a satisfactory  quality. The test for Satisfactory  
quality is dependent on each individual set of circumstances  but its clear that there would be differing  
expectations in terms of satisfactory quality  between  a used car compared to a brand new car for 
example.
The independent report
I have concerns about the degree to which I should rely on the independent  report. I say this for a 
number of reasons including in the report itself which states under the section background  history  
that the assessor had been told of information  from insurers of historic damage record with Category  
C total loss status. Go Car have since shown that there is no such record relating to this car on the 
independent records relating  to this car. In essence this assessment was carried out with the 
assessor under the belief  that this car had been previously sufficiently damaged  to be written off. I 
also note that the assessor also refers to the limited levels of inspection  and testing  that had been 
carried out in assessing the car and the writing of the report. So although I have considered this 
report's contents  I need to allocate  it appropriate  weighting in my decision making.
The gearbox
Mrs B says there was a noise with the car which didnt sound right.  So, she took the car back to the 
dealership within a couple  of weeks of buying  it and she says the dealership thought  it was an issue 
with a window and didnt  think there was anything wrong with the gearbox.  In September  2018 she 
complained to Go Car, got quotes from a garage and got an independent  report. The report  said that 
the car presented  a transmission bearing  drone increasing in volume from 30mph and correlating  to 
road speed  and there is evidence  to indicate a failing  transmission bearing . Go Car have pointed to 
the fact that the car had excessive usage and that such issues are part of normal costs  associated 
with used  car motoring. It is clear from the point of sale documentation that the car was over five 
years old and had done 87000 miles at point of sale and had done a further 14000  miles by the time 
of this inspection.
As I have said the relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should  have been of 
satisfactory quality when  supplied. The relevant  law also says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory  if 
they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person would  consider satisfactory considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  On this basis if I thought  
the car was faulty when  supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory quality, Id think it fair 
and reasonable to ask Go Gar to put this right.  But Go Cars responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. 
Whilst they are responsible  for its condition at the point of supply they are not responsible  for faults 
that develop afterwards such as those  relating  to wear  and tear.
I think  the independent report here is relevant, but it is also to be considered with the other 
circumstances here. It is accepted that Mrs B took the car back  to the dealership.  Go Car has 
contacted the dealership  and it says the dealership said there were no faults found  with the vehicle. 
This is largely consistent  with what Mrs B says about taking the car to the dealership where she says 
it found  no issue apart  from noise  coming  from a window.
Ref: DRN75803414Mrs B has provided  quotes  for repairs  from September 2018 which  is also around the time of the 
independent report. But it is also clear that between  getting the car and that time the car had driven 
over 14000 miles which to my mind is significant usage for a car which was some years old and 
already had significant mileage.  I think  it unlikely  Mrs B could have driven  as far as she has if the fault 
was present at point  of sale. And although this issue was raised over year ago I can see from what  
Mrs B has said that she has continued to drive it at a similar rate of mileage  to date and hasnt had 
this issue  repaired. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest the gearbox was faulty at 
the point of supply. Mrs B has provided  quotes for repairs from September 2018 and also obtained an 
independent report from the same time to support her assertion that the fault with the gearbox was 
present or developing  at the point of supply. I am very grateful  for these submissions  but Im afraid 
they havent convinced  me that, on balance, there is evidence the fault that now exists was present 
when the car was supplied to her. So my current thinking  is that Go Car doesnt have to take any 
corrective action regarding the gearbox.
The steering
The independent assessment notes that through a visual  steering function check  there presented a 
misalignment  on lock to lock turns resulting  in the LF (left front) tyre fouling  the inner wheel  arch on 
left turns. The report  later refers to this by stating that there  is significant steering  rack alignment 
fault with long term wear and polishing of the inner  arch from tyre contact.
Yet this doesnt  sit well with what else Mrs B has told us. For example when she says she took the car 
back to the dealership she took it back for the issue of noise from the gearbox not the steering. Go 
Car point to the dealership  saying it took the car for a test drive and there was no fault with the car. 
And from the evidence Mrs B has provided  she seems to have been driving the car significant  
distances for some months before she felt the need to get it checked (in early September 2018).
I dont think such a fault is likely to have been an intrinsic fault with the car since its building.  And if it 
had been an issue at purchase then I think Mrs B would have noticed it and dealt with it within days  or 
weeks, not 14000 miles later. I also think when she first took it back  to the garage it would  have been 
identified. And clearly  the car is still being driven significant distances and without repair to this issue.  
Bearing in mind  the independent  report assessor made his findings in the belief that the car had been 
previously written off, which  in relation to this issue was likely to influence his assessment findings. I 
dont think I can give significant weight  to his assessment that this issue was in place at the time of 
purchase. On balance I think  this issue wasnt present at the time of supply.
Distress and inconvenience
The investigator awarded  £350 for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs B but gave no 
explanation as to how this was caused or how it was suffered. Mrs B has driven this car throughout 
and at relatively high mileages and has not repaired  the car (she says for reasons of cost). But she 
still has had use of the car throughout.  Im not persuaded that these issues that Mrs B complains 
about with the car were  wrong with the car when  it was supplied to her (except for the seatbelt).  So I 
dont think it should have to pay distress and inconvenience for matters arising later.
The seatbelt
Go Car has said it will reimburse  Mrs B for the work  needed on the seatbelt. Mrs B has provided this 
service with a receipt for this work showing she paid £161.30.  So I think it fair that Go Car pay that 
amount to Mrs B now. I dont think there is any need for Mrs B to supply the receipt  direct. If Go Car 
need a copy of this receipt this service can provide  it to Go Car direct. Im not persuaded that this 
seatbelt issue  alone would  have  caused any significant distress and inconvenience to Mrs B.
In summary, apart  from the seatbelt issue I am currently satisfied that that this car was of satisfactory 
quality when Mrs B took possession of it considering all the circumstances  but particularly its cost, 
age and mileage. 
Ref: DRN75803415my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to partially uphold  this complaint and direct Go Car Credit  Limited  to resolve 
matters as Ive described by paying Mr and Mrs B £161.30. As such  I now invite both parties to let me 
have their responses in line with the guidance  at the beginning of this decision.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580341