K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1996. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr Y says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ys complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mr Y clear enough 
information about the policy. 
I say this because  Im not persuaded  FICL  did enough to bring Mr Ys attention to the 
policys medical terms.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr Y because he had a medical condition when he bought  
the PPI. And looking at the policy terms likely in use at the time, I dont think  Mr Y wouldve 
been able to claim for disability if his claim was the result of his existing condition. So he 
couldnt have  claimed for everything  I think he likely expected to be able to claim for.
Ive thought about all FICLs points, including what it has said about  the possibility that Mr Y 
might never have needed to claim for his condition, his condition  usually being manageable 
and not knowing  the conditions severity  or its effect on Mr Ys ability to work. 
But whatever effect it may or may not have had in the past,  I think Mr Ys condition meant it 
was possible he might in future want to claim for disability that was the result of his condition.  
And I think the PPI wouldve been  much less attractive to him if hed realised he couldnt 
claim for any time off work due to his known health issue.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Y wouldve bought the policy if FICL had 
given him enough information about  it. So I think Mr Y has lost out because of what  FICL did 
wrong.
putting things right
I understand Mr Ys card account  is closed.  
FICL should put Mr Y in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr Y would have owed when he closed his card account 
if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Ref: DRN75107532FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr Y owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr Y made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr Y would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until the refund  is paid.  The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr Y would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr Y 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr Y paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr Y 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr Y what  its done to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress paid to Mr Y by the lender 
if the commission redress relates to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr Y can reclaim the tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7510753