K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss O have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has 
unfairly refused  their claim under their pet policy.
background
Mr M and Miss O had insured their dog for over 5 years. However,  it appears  they changed 
their policy every year to avail of cheaper premiums. They took out this policy  on 8 July 
2018. It was for the level of cover  called extra cover, which provided £4,000 of vet fees per 
condition for so long as that condition lasted. Once the limit of £4,000 was used up, there  is 
no further cover for that condition.
They said their dog was lame on 24 August 2018  so they brought  her to the vet. The x-ray 
taken on 28 August showed probable  problems with a cruciate ligament.
RSA assessed  the claim and the vet history  and it refused to pay it as it said the symptoms 
pre-dated the start date of the policy so the condition was deemed pre-existing. No cover is 
provided for any pre-existing condition in this policy. In the vet history, it showed Mr M and 
Miss O said their dog had been  intermittently limping  for the previous three months. 
RSA then mistakenly wrote a letter confirming a claim  for their death of their dog. It 
apologised for this and paid them £100 compensation for the upset this had caused Mr M 
and Miss O. However, it maintained its decision to refuse to pay their claim was correct and 
it wouldnt change its stance.
Mr M and Miss O then brought their complaint to us. The adjudicator ultimately  was of the 
view that RSA had done anything wrong.  Mr M and Miss O disagreed  so their complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, Mr M and Miss O also complained  about the confusing vet advice at the beginning of 
their dogs treatment. However, I can only consider the actions of RSA and if Mr M and Miss 
O still have issues with their vets treatment, they must take this up with their vet, as neither 
this service nor I can adjudicate  on such an issue. This service can only adjudicate on issues  
that are regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority of which vet practices arent.
Secondly, I understand Mr M and Miss O changed  their policy  every year instead of 
renewing it. And whilst  their immediate previous policy was underwritten  by RSA also, I can 
only assess this policy and this policys terms and conditions. I do note in the renewal of their 
previous policy, the issues with changing policy providers was explained namely  that pre-
existing conditions are unlikely to be considered and that no cover is usually available  for the 
first 14 days. This fairly standard in almost all pet policies, so I dont find it unusual.  So Im 
satisfied Mr M and Miss O were made aware of the possible issues with changing the policy.
I see that Mr M and Miss O also think RSA were somehow penalising them for changing 
providers every year but I dont think this is the case. I think  its all to do with the cover 
Ref: DRN71581242provided by the policy. In this policy, Mr M and Miss O have the benefit of £4,000 of vet fees 
cover for each condition.  If the policy is renewed,  that cover can extend beyond  the policy 
year, as cover remains for the same condition until the pot of £4,000  is used up. So if their 
dog, for example,  suffered  something  like diabetes and in the first year of cover, Mr M and 
Miss O claimed £1,000  vet fees for this condition,  then for the next year they would still have 
£3,000 worth of cover  left for their dogs diabetes.
So provided they continued  to renew  the same policy each year,  they would have cover for 
diabetes until they had used up the full £4,000. So essentially the cover provided  can then 
last longer than just one policy year provided  the policy is renewed. But if they changed to 
another provider  or another policy (as they have done here),  its more than likely  they would 
have no cover for any ongoing vets fees in relation  to any diabetes claim, as it would be a 
pre-existing condition and consequently  not covered. Whilst premiums  often do increase, as 
the pet gets older irrespective of any claims being made, there  still can be an advantage to 
renewing a policy when the cover  is provided  this way. This is what  I believe the RSA 
adviser was trying to explain to Mr M and Miss O, when she said their claim might have been 
paid, had they not started a new policy. Im not however aware of the cover provided in Mr M 
and Miss Os previous  policy.  However, its unfortunate the RSA adviser also was trying to 
persuade Mr M and Miss O not to bring  their complaint to this service, which I consider RSA 
should now address.
In assessing this complaint, Im merely looking to see if RSA did anything wrong in 
assessing Mr M and Miss Os claim under the policy terms and conditions which started  on 8 
July 2018. In the vet history, the vet has detailed for their visit on 24 August that they said 
their dog had been: -
Limping on left hind for 3 months intermittently.
Some weeks wont limp at all. 
In the last few days limping has worsened  toe touching now.
Usually fine first thing  in the morning, mostly  seen when getting up from laying down.

Lick licking  / mild reaction on palpitation  of stifle, subjectively R stifle fees thickened, 
possible cranial drawrr but very tense.
Assessment:
Cruciate ds vs other. 
As their policy started on 8 July, this is clear  unequivocal  evidence that their dogs issues  
started before this policy began since she was limping on left hind for 3 months  
intermittently. Therefore, on that alone,  I dont consider  RSA did anything  wrong  in refusing 
to pay this claim, as its policy clearly  doesnt provide cover for any issues, which  pre-dated 
the policy. Further the vet detailed in the claim form that the problem had started  in May 
being three months before,  which  RSA clarified  subsequently from the vet in the a telephone 
call.   And  since its probable the vet merely recounted what  Mr M and Miss O told her and 
further Mr M and Miss O confirmed  they said all this to the vet in order to be entirely  honest , 
I dont consider RSA did anything  wrong in refusing to pay this claim, given the issue wasnt 
consequently covered.
Mr M and Miss O then said their dog had jumped up on or off the bed that morning, which  
caused the severity  of the issue. But that doesnt  get over the fact that clearly  their dog had 
been limping on the left hind leg for some time, namely three months and that in the previous 
Ref: DRN71581243few days it had worsened. The x-rays also showed  their dog had signs  of osteoarthritis  but in 
her right leg. 
So on this basis, I consider theres  nothing wrong with this decision to refuse to pay their 
claim, as RSA made it in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, which  Mr M 
and Miss O chose to change to and start on 8 July 2018. The policy  provides no cover for 
issues, which started before the policy start date and this evidence  clearly shows  the 
problems did begin before their policy start date.
It was extremely unfortunate RSA sent out a letter in error confirming a claim for the death  of 
their dog in the middle of all this. So I consider it appropriate that it paid Mr M and Miss O the 
sum of £100  compensation for this. 
my final decision
So whilst I do understand and appreciate Mr M and Miss O will be deeply disappointed,  for 
these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January  2020. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7158124