K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs K holds with HSBC  UK Bank  Plc. There  are two 
broad elements to the complaint; that;
HSBC applied excessive legal costs to the mortgage account  in connection the recovery 
action it took due to arrears; and 
that credits Mrs K made to the mortgage account are missing.
background
The wider  context to this complaint is that the mortgage has been in arrears  and subject to 
court action for several years. HSBC obtained a possession order in 2016, but Mrs K is 
currently engaged  in court action of her own to have that order amended. Most of her issues  
with HSBC are bound up in the court action, which means we wont look at them.  But Mrs K 
said the two issues  listed above were excluded  from the court action and asked that we 
looked into them.
One of our adjudicators did that but concluded HSBC hadnt done  anything wrong, Mrs K 
disagreed and asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  I assure  the 
parties that Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments (including  Mrs Ks most  
recent comments responding to the adjudicators opinion) to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting point  is that lenders have the right, under the terms of the mortgage contract, to 
debit a mortgage account in arrears with the costs of legal action taken to recover  the debt.  
But those  costs have  to have been fairly  and appropriately incurred, and the amounts 
charged should be broadly proportionate  to the work done.
In Mrs Ks case, the amounts  HSBC has charged are substantial, but the account  has been 
in arrears since 2006, and there have been many court dates, each requiring the banks 
solicitor to prepare for, and be in attendance at. Ive looked at the work done,  and seen the 
invoices for it, and in all the circumstances, dont find that the amounts charged are unfair  or 
excessive.
As far as missing credits are concerned,  if a consumer  provides evidence of money being 
paid to a bank where theres no evidence of a corresponding credit to the relevant account, 
Ref: DRN70073052we can look into that and consider whether money  has gone unaccounted  for. Mrs K hasnt 
provided anything  that would  allow us to make such a judgement.  When the adjudicator  
explained that to her, Mrs K responded alleging a number of general  accounting  errors and 
miscalculations.
All I can say on that is to repeat  something the adjudicator told Mrs K in his initial 
assessment.  The Financial Ombudsman  Service  does not provide a free account checking 
service and it is not our role to make consumers  complaints for them. If Mrs K thinks  she 
has suffered financially from accounting  mistakes  on HSBCs part, it is for her to arrange for 
the account to be independently audited and the evidence of the audit could then be used as 
the basis for a new complaint. 
Mrs K would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors  were found to Mrs Ks 
detriment, we would then expect HSBC to reimburse  the cost of the audit  as well as taking 
any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand,  the evidence  
available to me to consider does not give me grounds to find that Mrs K has suffered a 
material financial loss flowing from mistakes  in HSBCs accounting  on her mortgage.  
Mrs K doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if she doesnt, it wont  be binding  on 
either party. Subject  to any time limits  or other exclusions the court  might  impose,  Mrs Ks 
right to draw  the above issues back into the legal  action currently  taking place  between  her 
and HSBC wont have  been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont make any order or 
award. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7007305