K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs B took out PPI during a meeting  at one of Lloyds branches to cover  
each of their incomes.  The PPI provided  70% of their mortgage payments in the event Mr B 
couldnt work through accident or sickness or lost his job, or 30% if Mrs B couldnt work 
through accident or sickness or lost her job. The policy provided 100% of their mortgage 
payments if both couldnt work.
The policy cost £6.43 a month  and it provided a 100% benefit  to match  Mr and Mrs Bs 
monthly mortgage payment of £109.99 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs B chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds not only had to provide 
Mr and Mrs B with good enough  information about  the policy so they could make an 
informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  
based on their needs  and circumstances at the time.  Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 20 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in February  1997.  
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs application form, which although  difficult  to 
read, appears to show a tick by the PPI on the form indicating they had chosen to take it out, 
and they have both signed  the application form. Although the form isnt entirely clear, the 
Ref: DRN76958342optional presentation of the PPI on it is consistent  with what  this service has seen on other 
Lloyds application  forms from the same brand at the same time. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the policy to Mr and Mrs B as optional 
and they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs B properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs B lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. I also 
dont know what information Mr and Mrs B were given about PPI. I can see that the cost of 
the policy is shown  separately on the Mortgage offer.  But beyond that I dont know  whether 
the policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were  told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take the cover  
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs B that they take out PPI. I accept  Mr and Mrs B may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have  lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  and needs  at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs B were  eligible  for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs B were  employed and in good  health  at the time, so it doesnt  appear 
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr and Mrs B were  under  21 years of age and the mortgage  provided for their first 
home together. While  they both had income,  some savings, and possibly some sick 
pay (theyre unsure if they had sick pay) which could  have helped  them  make  the 
mortgage payments  if either was off work ill, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months for each claim. Mr and Mrs B had 
limited other means to help them if either  lost their jobs. So I think  Mr and Mrs B had 
a need for their cover and that it would have been useful to them if either had found 
themselves unable to work. It could have helped  them financially at what  would be a 
difficult time - it could have helped  them  protect their home.
The cost of the PPI was shown on the mortgage offer. But even if theyd missed this, 
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at under £7 per month  it appears  to have been affordable. And as 
they were paying for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without further  cost if at 
any stage their situation changed or they no longer  wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Mr and Mrs B may not have been  treated fairly and reasonably by Lloyds  in its dealings with 
Ref: DRN76958343them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the PPI and they would have been  in the 
same position if Lloyds had done  more and properly advised and informed them  - I think they 
would have still taken  out the PPI.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7695834