K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when it was trading as C&G Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a joint mortgage Mr and Mrs G took 
out in 2001. It protected their monthly mortgage repayments. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G 
disagree, and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats  happened. Theyre  mainly  
concerned that they werent made aware that they were taking out PPI with their mortgage 
and it wasnt explained to them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Lloyds hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs G to show how they agreed to take out PPI. I dont think 
thats surprising.  I wouldnt expect Lloyds (or C&G) or Mr and Mrs G to have kept these 
records for so long  particularly as this mortgage account  has been closed for over 
14 years.  And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what  Mr and Mrs G might  be able to 
remember about the sale after such a long time.  
In order to uphold  this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs G werent given a 
fair choice  about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  their consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the very limited information Ive got. Their  mortgage was a 
major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Mr and Mrs Gs home  
wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a 
dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were  protected even if they 
couldnt work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. Its completely 
understandable that Mr and Mrs G mightve  forgotten some of the details from the sale. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs G decided they wanted  to protect their home 
by taking out PPI. And it was added to their mortgage at their request.  
Mr and Mrs G took out this borrowing in joint names  when  they were  both in work and 
contributing towards  paying the mortgage.  So, with no paperwork to show who had the PPI, 
I think the fairest way to assess their complaint is to look at it on the basis that Lloyds 
recommended PPI for them  both. 
Ref: DRN77406772If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. So looking at the complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint the best chance of success.
Mr and Mrs G were both eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs G 
told us about their sick pay arrangements at work. But I cant  reasonably say that 
Mr and Mrs G wouldnt  have found  PPI useful. It wouldve covered their mortgage 
repayments plus some extra for household bills and other expenses and paid out on top of 
any sick pay benefits for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr or Mrs G was too sick to work. Also 
the policy wouldve  paid out if either of them became unexpectedly unemployed. Repeat 
claims were  possible giving  Mr and Mrs G long term cover for their mortgage.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs G mentioned having  death in service  benefit  but 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So this doesnt 
affect my decision. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to redundancy money.  This 
wouldve protected any lump sum Mr and Mrs G mightve got giving them more financial 
security. So I can understand why someone with redundancy  benefits would still want to 
have PPI as well.
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs G werent  at risk of having to sell their home if they 
couldnt work.
Looking at all the information Ive seen,  and thinking  about  their circumstances, I find that 
PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs G were 
affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits  when they took out 
PPI in 2001. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  I dont know  if the PPI cost was made  clear  to them when  they 
bought the policy. But the monthly premiums  seem to have been affordable for 
Mr and Mrs G when they took the policy  out. Overall its possible there may have been some 
failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs G still wouldve decided  to buy 
the policy if theyd  been better informed as it gave  them useful protection  in their particular 
situation. I dont  think better information  wouldve put Mr and Mrs G off buying PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7740677