K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her loans irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about loans Lending Stream  provided to Mrs R between June 2011  and 
February 2012. Heres  a table showing details of these loans.
loan start date date paid instalments amount highest  repayment
1 16/06/2011 10/01/2012 5 £175.00 £96.25
2 15/07/2011 19/01/2012 6 £305.00 £235.63
3 15/11/2011 05/03/2012 6 £360.00 £259.30
4 13/01/2012 05/03/2012 5 £135.00 £211.05
5 21/02/2012 05/03/2012 5 £145.00 £259.08
Mrs R complained that Lending Stream failed  to do proper checks to ensure this lending  was 
affordable for her when she had loans with other  payday lenders and her debt was getting 
out of control.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt feel that hed seen 
enough to say it was unfair for Lending  Stream to have provided  loans  1 - 4 to Mrs R. But he 
thought that by loan 5, when Mrs R already had 2 outstanding Lending Stream 
loans, this ought to have  alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that Mrs R 
mightve been having problems  managing her money. And proportionate checks wouldve 
shown that Mrs R also had another outstanding  high cost loan elsewhere.  So Lending 
Stream shouldve realised  it was unlikely Mrs R wouldve been able to repay this borrowing 
in a sustainable way. 
For these reasons, our adjudicator said Lending Stream  shouldnt have lent Mrs R loan 5. 
Lending Stream responded  to our adjudicators view by sending  us details of the credit 
checks it did for each loan. Mrs R hasnt responded to our adjudicators view.
So the complaint comes  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN73671172But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
I think that, broadly  speaking, the checks Lending Stream  did before agreeing the first four 
loans were proportionate. In my view, Lending  Stream might  reasonably  have wanted to 
know a bit more  about Mrs Rs financial circumstances  when she asked for loan 3 given that 
she was still paying  for loans 1 and 2 (bearing in mind shed also asked for loan 2 just a 
month or so after she took out loan 1). And she took out loan 4 just a few days after paying 
loan 1. I think that potentially this borrowing pattern indicated that Mrs Rs finances mightnt 
be stable and that she perhaps wasnt managing debt in a well planned  way.
But Ive taken into account that, at all times, the amounts that Mrs R needed to repay looked 
affordable  even  allowing for the combined repayment amounts on overlapping loans. 
Looking at what was apparent about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, and keeping  in mind 
that these were her first few loans with Lending  Stream, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  loans 1 - 4. 
Ref: DRN73671173But by the time Mrs R asked for loan 5, this meant  she had already taken out overlapping loans 
three times previously  this would be the fourth  time shed  done  that. And by now shed been 
borrowing from Lending Stream  for around 8 months  so I think there were clear indications  
that she wasnt just borrowing  to meet a short term need or an unexpected expense. 
I think Lending Stream shouldve  realised  that it was no longer reasonable to base its 
lending decision on the information Mrs R was providing. I think it would have been 
proportionate for Lending  Stream  to have taken steps to independently check the true state 
of Mrs Rs finances.
If Lending Stream had looked in depth at Mrs Rs finances it wouldve been  able to see that 
Mrs R had been borrowing regularly from at least one other short term loan provider for 
some time  and she had another  short term high cost loan outstanding, as well as her 
outstanding loans with Lending Stream,  when  she asked for loan 5.
The number and extent  of her active debt with payday lenders when she asked Lending Stream 
for loan 5 shouldve  made Lending  Stream realise  that she was having  money  problems. 
To my mind the information  Lending Stream had available if it had done proportionate 
checks suggested that it was unlikely that Mrs R was going to be able to repay loan 5 in a 
sustainable way.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made  by Mrs R towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loan 5, not including anything it has already  refunded.
B.Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mrs R which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs R originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mrs R the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Lending Stream  has recorded on Mrs Rs credit  file 
for loan 5.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mrs R a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Rs complaint  about  loan 5. Gain Credit  LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367117