K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt 
with her claim for water  damage to her flat under a commercial property owners insurance 
for the block.
background
In October  2017 Miss M suffered water damage  to her flat when a leak from the upstairs 
neighbour's flat came  through  the ceiling. It shorted her electrics  and caused damage to the 
ceiling and part of the flooring. Miss M was left without lights in part of the flat. LV sent out a 
loss adjuster who asked  Miss M to get two independent quotes for the electrical work. She 
duly obtained those  quotes but the loss adjusters said they were too high. The loss adjusters 
subsequently made  an offer for the decorating costs and the electrical repairs. But the offer 
was just over half the cost of the redecoration  costs and just over a quarter of the cost of the 
electrical repairs. An agreement could not be reached and Miss M came to this service. 
LV reviewed  the claims handling and said that it would after all pay all the cost of the 
electrical work, save for the replacement of the consumer unit which isnt in the flat and 
wasnt damaged  by water. It also offered Miss M £200 for the inconvenience  caused.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the matter and proposed that LV either  carry out the electrical,  
decorating and flooring work  itself or pay Miss M a cash  settlement so she could instruct  her 
own chosen contractors.  He said the compensation should be increased to £300.
Subsequently the parties were able to get together and agreed  on a cash settlement in 
respect of all the repairs and alternative  accommodation for Miss M while the repairs were 
being carried out.
LV objected to any increase in the compensation it had offered. It believed a lot of the 
problems over communication  were due to Miss M not responding to it or its loss adjusters.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise first of all that I am only looking  at what happened up until LVs final 
response letter of 20 June 2018. I know the claim continued after that but if Miss M had any 
problems over LVs handling  of the claim during that period she has to raise a complaint  with 
LV about  it.
Our adjudicator identified  that:
Miss M as at 20 June  2018 had been without lighting in part of her flat for eight 
months.
The loss adjusters said the Miss Ms quotes were too high but they did not produce 
their own detailed  quotes to support their comments.
Ref: DRN70611392LV offered Miss M a cash settlement for the decorating and electrical  costs.  Miss M 
asked five times for a breakdown of these costs.  When  she eventually  got the 
breakdown it only covered materials and not labour  costs.
There were  delays,  poor communication, and a lack of updates  and responses  from 
the LV and its loss adjusters.
LV didnt at first offer to send out its own contractors to do the work. So Miss M had to get 
her won quotes at first. It explained that it regarded  the policy  as a commercial  one, for the 
block, so wouldnt normally send out its own contractors. But in this case  the damage was 
confined to Miss Ms flat (and presumably the upstairs owner, although  I havent  seen any 
information relating  to that). As LV was quite able to offer its own contractors  I think  this did 
add to the delays in dealing with the claim.
LV has said Miss M failed to reply to emails and telephone calls. I note Miss Ms work  
involved her traveling abroad. I also note that for a while the loss adjusters had the wrong 
email address for Miss M. There were occasions  when LV couldnt get in touch with Miss M 
and I think this also added to the delays.  
But for the issues identified by myself and the adjudicator I think a payment of £300  
compensation is fair and reasonable. I understand Miss M would like her excess to be 
waived too. I dont think thats appropriate.  But I would emphasise that Ive only looked at 
matters up until June  2018.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require LV to pay £300  compensation  to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7061139