K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
Background
In 1985, Mr B took a mortgage into his sole name.  In 1992,  Mr B took out a PPI policy to 
cover that mortgage. Then in 1993,  he took out a further advance,  and extended the PPI to 
cover the further  advance.
Mr B paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which  didnt attract interest.  It covered 
his mortgage and further advance payments  in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided that Mr Bs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr B bought the policy several years  after taking  on the mortgage,  so he wouldve known he 
didnt have to buy PPI to get approved for the mortgage. It looks  like he was sent a postal  
leaflet where Nationwide were offering PPI if he was interested.  I can see he signed and 
returned an application for the policy. Then Mr Bs further advance  application  had a section 
for PPI, which asked if he wanted  to cover his further advance.  There  was a yes and a no 
option to choose from. The yes box was ticked, and it was noted  that Mr B wanted cover  
for himself only. He signed  the further advance application to confirm his choices. Overall,  
I think that Nationwide made Mr B aware he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it at the time.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to give Mr B clear information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr B about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr B chose to take out PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of 
insurance. And Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  While  
he had some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and it offered 
him much more comprehensive  cover.  So it couldve really been useful in protecting  Mr Bs 
home in case something went  wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so 
Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better  
information was likely  to have put him off taking  out the policy.
Ref: DRN72487882Lastly, Nationwide has discovered that it slightly overcharged Mr B for his premiums  around 
the time he took out the further advance. It has offered to refund the small overpayments 
and pay 8% simple interest on top of that to compensate Mr B for the time he was without 
his money. I think that offer is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I do not think this PPI policy was mis-sold, and I think 
Nationwide Building  Society has already made a fair offer to resolve the slight  over-
payments. Nationwide Building  Society  should  pay the offer if it has not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7248788