K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains (through his father) that SSE Home  Services Limited is responsible for poor 
service under a home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has power  to deal with consumer complaints about 
regulated activities  carried  out by insurance companies and other regulated  financial firms. 
On 6 March 2018 Mr P took out SSE heating cover. He agreed to pay an annual  amount of 
about £189.00 by ten instalments  of about £18.90. Where I refer to SSE, I include its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Ive seen SSEs welcome letter dated  6 March 2018.  Ive also seen a later version of the 
policy terms (updated May 2018). I place more weight  on the welcome  letter because it was 
addressed personally  to Mr P at the time he took out the cover.
The welcome letter said that SSE heating cover was in fact two agreements.  One agreement  
said it wasnt an insurance contract.  It was a Service Contract  with SSE.  That covered in 
particular an initial inspection. I think the purpose of that initial  inspection  was to see whether 
the central heating  system was suitable  to be insured or whether Mr P would first have to 
pay for work  to bring it up to that standard.
The other agreement  was an insurance contract.  Under that contract an insurance  company 
was responsible for dealing with claims and SSE was the policy administrator. 
The welcome letter said that complaints about  SSE heating cover  could be brought  to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  That didnt distinguish  between the Service Contract and the 
insurance contract.
On 9 April 2018  SSE started the initial inspection. There was no suggestion  that Mr P 
needed a thermostat for the hot water cylinder.  But the engineer identified other parts  that 
needed to be replaced. These included a two-port valve  and a sump.  SSE quoted  £315.00. 
On 16 April 2018 Mr P accepted that quote.  SSE fitted the new parts on 23 April 2018. On 
25 April 2018 Mr P reported that he had no hot water. On 26 April SSE said that Mr P also 
needed a new thermostat for the hot water cylinder. 
Mr P complained (through his father) that he and his wife and baby  were  left without hot 
water until SSE fitted a new thermostat on 3 May 2018.
In a final response letter dated  11 May 2018, SSE said that it accepted the complaint. It 
offered  as a goodwill  gesture  to write off four months payments  about  £75.00.  It said 
that Mr P could bring his complaint to us, which Mr Ps father  did shortly afterwards.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
after SSE replaced  the valve on 23 April 2018, the boiler was in working order.  She said that 
from 25 April until 3 May SSE was actively trying to source the thermostat. She didnt think 
there had been  a business error. She said that it was more than reasonable that SSE wrote  
off four of the instalments.
Ref: DRN70650652my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to SSE on 8 May 2019. I summarise my findings:
I didnt think SSE was responsible for any unreasonable delay in recommending,  
obtaining and fitting the new thermostat.
Mr P got the thermostat  free of charge  as well as an offer to waive  four out of ten of 
the instalment  payments. 
So I wasnt  minded  to find it fair and reasonable to order SSE to pay Mr P 
compensation or to do anything further in response to his complaint.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from SSE,  my provisional  decision was that I 
wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct SSE Home  Services Limited 
to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Neither Mr P nor SSE has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
From the engineers  notes on 9 April 2018,  I think the two-port valve needed  replacing  
because it had snapped off. There was also a leak from the boiler sump. The engineer 
categorised the boiler as at risk.
But Mr Ps father told us that after 9 April there  was no rush to get the new parts fitted  as the 
heating and hot water were working  fine. So I find that the thermostat was still working then.
On 23 April 2018 the engineer replaced the valve and sump. From  what Mr Ps father  has 
said, his son didnt  immediately pay for that work.  After 23 April SSE treated Mr Ps system 
as having passed the initial inspection.  So Im satisfied that it had tested the system.
Mr Ps father concludes that the thermostat shouldve  been replaced on 23 April.  He thinks it 
too much  of a coincidence that the thermostat should fail shortly after 23 April.
But Ive thought about what  wouldve happened  if the engineer had found the thermostat 
needed replacing on 9 or 23 April. And I think he wouldve quoted  Mr P a price, waited until 
he accepted it and then ordered the part. That wouldve taken some time.
  
From SSEs records, I see that Mr P didnt report a lack of hot water until 25 April. So  
allowing for a couple  of days supply  in the cylinder  - I think  the thermostat  mustve  failed 
between about  23 and 25 April 2018. 
And SSEs notes  suggest that the thermostat  failed because it couldnt read  the (new)  2- 
port valve.  So I find that the thermostat failed shortly  after the engineers visit on 23 April. 
Ref: DRN70650653As the system had passed the initial inspection, the insurer ordered a new thermostat 
without quoting Mr P any price he would have to pay for it.
I see that it took some time to obtain a thermostat.  And in the meantime Mr P and his family 
were without hot water for over a week. But SSEs  file shows  that it thought about whether it 
could do a temporary fix for the hot water  and decided it couldnt.
I dont think the evidence shows that SSE was responsible for any unreasonable delay  in 
recommending, obtaining  and fitting the new thermostat.
I dont find it unfair that  from 7 May 2018 - SSE sent letters to Mr P asking for payment of 
about £315.00.
I accept that Mr P received the final response letter dated 11 May 2018  before he received a 
holding letter dated 12 May 2018 saying that SSE was still investigating the matter.  Thats  
not good complaints-handling.  But Mr Ps father  brought his sons complaint to us promptly.
I see that SSE sent further letters  chasing payment on 21 and 28 May 2018. Mr Ps father 
hasnt shown when  his son made  payment. So I dont find the letters unfair.
I keep in mind that I havent found that SSE was responsible for any unreasonable  delay in 
recommending, obtaining  and fitting the new thermostat. And Mr P got the thermostat free of 
charge  as well as an offer to waive four out of ten of the instalment payments. So I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to order SSE to pay Mr P compensation  or to do anything further 
in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct SSE Home Services  Limited  to do anything  further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065065