K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage  product as he couldnt port 
it. Mr L wants to recover  the early redemption charge (ERC) that he paid, recover losses of 
rent, get Santander to stand by its mortgage promise  and compensate him as a vulnerable  
customer.
background
In April 2018 Mr L contacted Santander about  a new mortgage  product as the existing 
product was coming to an end on 2 May 2018. Mr L was at the time considering moving  to a 
new house. After  discussing the matter with several  Santander advisers, Mr L completed an 
application for a new fixed  rate product. In August 2018 Mr L agreed to sell his house and 
applied to port his mortgage product. The application for a new mortgage  was initially 
refused but was under further consideration by a Santander  underwriter when Mr L decided  
not to go ahead with his intended purchase. In October 2018 Mr L sold his house and 
redeemed his mortgage paying  an ERC but hadnt yet decided  on a new property.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She felt that 
Santander informed  Mr L that his porting application  would  be subject to Santanders lending  
criteria at the time of application. She noted  that Mr L didnt make an application to port 
within the three months that Santander allowed to port. So, she felt that Santander didnt 
have to refund the ERC.
Mr L disagreed saying in summary that our investigator incorrectly  focused on finding phone 
calls and not enough on the fact that Santander  unfairly declined  his request to port his 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Ls complaint. Firstly,  Mr L says he was misled into accepting a 
new mortgage product  by what  he was told by a Santander mortgage adviser about porting 
in 2018. Secondly, that he was unable to port his mortgage later that year and paid an ERC.
Mr L had a mortgage with Santander.  He left his job in financial services through ill health in 
March 2018 and when writing to us was unsure whether he would  ever work again. Mr L 
agreed a new mortgage  product with Santander  in May 2018. This product had an ERC 
which was payable if the mortgage  was redeemed early unless it was ported. Mr L says that 
he was assured by a Santander adviser that the good thing about this mortgage  product 
was that it does not need underwriting . But when  MR L applied to port the product, he was 
told that the new mortgage application  needed  to be reviewed by an underwriter. 
Mr L clearly puts emphasis on a phone call he had with a mortgage adviser. Mr L cant say 
who the mortgage adviser was or the date of the call. Mr L says that was with a male 
mortgage adviser after he had discussions with a female adviser. I have listened to 
discussions Mr L had with three advisers  on 18 April 2018. In the discussion Mr L says that 
hed been thinking about moving - he describes  this as just a thought  and that the property 
Ref: DRN77375922wasnt on the market  at that time- and an adviser  tell him that the product could be ported 
but subject to Santanders lending  criteria  and affordability checks. 
Because Mr L said that he might move in the near future,  a female adviser  referred him quite 
properly to a male adviser to discuss the rates for new business if Mr L didnt port. Its clear  
to me that the male  adviser was discussing new business rates in the context of not porting 
and wasnt providing  any advice on porting. So, on the 18 April Santander told Mr L the rates 
that would  apply if he ported or didnt  and that if he wanted to port, he would have to meet 
Santanders lending  and affordability  criteria.      
Mr L then made an online  application to convert his mortgage product on 24 April 2018. Mr L 
then received a mortgage product conversion offer issued by Santander  on the same date. 
The offer refers to an ERC at Section 10 which says that the mortgage can be transferred to 
another property  but subject to Mr L meeting our lending criteria and pass our affordability 
assessment at that time.
Mr L refers to a mortgage adviser telling him something different in a phone  call. Santander 
cant find evidence of that. Mr L is suspicious of the absence of that phone  call. But apart 
from that call Mr L, who was experienced  in the financial services industry, had a document  
telling him that he would have to meet Santanders lending criteria and pass an affordability  
assessment if he wanted to port and continued  to accept the conversion  on that basis.  So, I 
believe that its reasonable for me to accept that Mr L was aware of and agreed  to the terms 
that were set out in that mortgage product conversion offer.  So, Mr L should have been 
aware that his porting application  would have to pass some  checks and wouldnt be granted  
automatically.
The other issue is whether Santander  acted fairly in refusing Mr Ls application to port. It 
seems that the application was initially declined then was being reviewed.  Mr L was 
proposing paying his new mortgage from his redundancy  payment and then converting a 
number of apartments which would provide him with a higher income in the future to allow  
him to continue paying the mortgage. Santander was concerned that Mr L had no income 
and was relying on savings and projected  future income. The application was declined but 
was being reconsidered by the underwriter when Mr L told Santander on 20 August that he 
no longer wanted  to proceed with the application  as he didnt want  to buy the property which 
was the subject of the application. 
The contact  notes indicate that there was a further  negotiation between Mr L and Santander 
about a potential alternative  property  and whether Mr L could satisfy Santanders 
underwriters. Mr L completed  his sale on 27 September 2018. Santander said that it would 
consider a porting application  for three months after that date. Although Mr L emailed 
Santander on 12 November that he was searching  for a property he made no further  porting  
application.
When Mr L made his porting application,  Santander under the MCOB regulations wasnt 
required to make an affordability assessment. But my view is that it was reasonable to do so. 
Mr L had no income - although  he had savings - and tells us that he is unlikely to work again. 
Mr L was going  to use the equity from the property to renovate two other properties into 
apartments and this was intended  to produce  the rental income  to pay the mortgage. So, in 
those circumstances  I believe that it was it was fair for Santander  to investigate the feasibility 
of this and whether the new mortgage was affordable and in his best interests.  Although the 
first application was initially declined, it was going  through an appeal process when Mr L 
Ref: DRN77375923decided not to proceed with the proposed purchase. At that stage Santander  hadnt  reached 
a final determination  but I dont believe that its process was unfair.
I can see that Santander was going through a similar assessment process in the expectation  
that if Mr L found another property that he would submit a further porting application. But, in 
the event, he appears not to have found  such a property and didnt submit a further 
application. Mr L redeemed the existing mortgage and paid an ERC.  As Mr L didnt apply to 
port his mortgage,  I dont consider that Santander  acted  unfairly  in retaining that money  
Mr L in his complaint  tells us that he a history of depression  and so is a vulnerable customer.  
I am sorry  to hear that. Ive looked  at whether Santander should have been alerted to that. 
But I cant see anything in the evidence that would have done so. Ive listened to several  
phone conversations where  Mr L is alert and responsive and doesn't  mention a medical 
condition. So, I cant say that Santander  should  have recognised Mr L as a vulnerable  
customer. For the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.             
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7737592