K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Elite Insurance Company  Limited has delayed paying her claim 
under her horse policy.
background
Elite has accepted Mrs Cs claim.  Unfortunately, its business processes were  then affected  
by issues with a reinsurer.  This caused Elite to have to impose  a restriction on its payment 
protocol, which  unfortunately lasted longer than expected.
This restriction on payments has now been  lifted and Elite are now working through its 
backlog, but Mrs C remained unhappy.  
So she brought her complaint to us. The investigator  thought that since Elite agreed Mrs Cs 
claim in April 2018, the delay in now paying  Mrs C was unreasonable.  So he thought Elite 
should pay Mrs C £100 compensation  and add interest of 8% simple per year from the date 
of her claim  to the date it pays her.
Mrs C agreed  but Elite didnt. Consequently, Mrs Cs complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Whilst I do understand and appreciate Elite was trying to ensure its customers were all 
treated fairly and consistently, this wasnt a regulator-imposed restriction  on payments of 
claims. 
Therefore, I consider  it reasonable that if a consumer such as Mrs C here,  has had her claim 
agreed but is then without  the payment of that claim,  they remain  entitled to compensation 
and interest on the monies owed. The compensation payment suggested by the investigator 
for Mrs C is nominal  and is not punitive  on Elite, but does recognise appropriately the 
inconvenience this has caused her. I think thats  fair.
The interest award is following the event  of the delay,  in Elite paying  Mrs Cs claim.  And it is 
our standard approach to such  delayed payments and I consider it reasonable. 
Mrs C has since  told us that Elite is requesting her to lodge all her claim papers again, which  
is obviously adding to the delay in Elite paying  her claim as it originally agreed to do. 
Therefore, I remain of the view that adding interest  to Mrs Cs claim payment remains  
reasonable. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, it my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Elite Insurance Company  Limited to do the following:
Ref: DRN71706362Pay Mrs C £100 compensation.
Add interest of 8% simple per year on the agreed payment of her claim from the date 
of her claim  to date it pays her.*
*If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170636