K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) removed his access to its 
mobile banking  application. 
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr N has asked  Barclaycard to reinstate his access to its mobile 
banking application  and pay him some  compensation. 
background
Mr N has held a Barclaycard for some years and has made  use of its mobile banking 
application during that time.  In May 2018  he applied for a new bank  account  with Barclays 
but the application wasnt successful. Mr Ns said that from this time his Barclaycard  mobile  
banking application  stopped working.  
Mr N complained and Barclaycard  initially  told him it had reset his mobile account but he was 
unable to get the mobile banking application working again. Barclaycard relooked at what 
had happened  and Mr N says he was told his mobile  number  had been  blacklisted which  
meant it couldnt be used  with the mobile banking application any more. Barclaycard paid 
Mr N £50 for incorrectly telling him the problem had been fixed  and explained  he wouldnt be 
able to use the mobile banking application  any longer. 
Mr N referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened. 
They didnt ask for Mr Ns mobile  banking application access to be reinstated as they 
thought Barclaycard was entitled  to decide to withdraw it. As Mr N remains unhappy his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard says it wont reinstate Mr Ns mobile  banking application if he continues  to use 
the same  telephone number. And whilst I appreciate Mr Ns upset he no longer has access  
to the same  facilities, Ive not found  Barclaycard made a mistake  by limiting  the services  it 
provides. Ive looked at the credit  card terms and conditions and theres  nothing  that says 
Barclaycard must provide  mobile banking application access to its customers. 
Barclaycard initially  told Mr N the problem had been  fixed and that hed be able to use the 
mobile banking  application again, but that was later found to be wrong. Barclaycard paid 
Mr N £50 for the inconvenience caused by its error. And I think  thats  fair in the 
circumstances Mr Ns raised so Im not telling Barclaycard to increase its offer.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N but I cant force Barclaycard  to give him a more detailed  
explanation as to why it wont allow him to use his phone number to access  the mobile  
banking application.  But Im satisfied Barclaycards  entitled to decide to limit access  to its 
mobile banking  application if it choses to and Ive not found any evidence of an error here. 
Barclaycards paid Mr N £50 for providing  incorrect information and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN71803132my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180313