K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that changes Provident  Personal Credit Limited (Provident)  made to the 
way it conducted  its business resulted in arrears  accruing on his loan accounts with 
Provident.
background
Mr W took out two loans with Provident,  the first in September 2016 and the second in April 
2017. Initially Providents business  system provided  for Mr W to make regular payments to 
self-employed agents of Provident,  who would  visit him at home. Mr W made payments, and 
kept his accounts up to date, until the end of June 2017.
At this time Provident altered its business  system. It dispensed with its self-employed agents 
and instead arranged for payments to be made  through an employed  customer experience 
manager. Mr W says following this change,  he had no contact with any of Providents 
representatives, and when he tried to contact  Provident by phone  no one answered.
The result was that he stopped making repayments on his loan accounts. In August  2017 he 
complained about the situation to Provident.  He was concerned that arrears were 
accumulating, and this would  affect  his credit  file.
In November 2017, Provident wrote  to Mr W accepting his complaint.  It acknowledged that 
the changes it had made to its business  system had caused a disruption in its service, and 
that it would  be unfair  for this to affect  Mr Ws future  creditworthiness. It said:
it had taken  steps to ensure any missed  payments caused  by this disruption werent 
reflected on his credit file; and
it would make  allowances for the acknowledged  disruption in service to make sure he 
wasnt penalised  in considering him for future  loans.
Provident said it would arrange for Mr W to be visited  by his customer  experience manager, 
and gave him her direct  telephone  number.  By way of further  apology  it paid him 
compensation of £50.
Mr W didnt accept that this resolved his complaint and complained  to us. He was worried  
that his accounts  still showed the missed  payments  as arrears. He wanted his accounts  to 
be adjusted so that he wasnt in arrears, as had been the case  before Provident altered its 
business system.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said Provident 
had acknowledged  that the changes it made  had impacted on Mr Ws repayments, and had 
taken steps to rectify this. It had confirmed that the missed payments wouldnt affect his 
credit file and had paid him compensation of £50, which  the adjudicator thought  was fair.
Mr W said he had tried unsuccessfully to contact  Provident to make payments, but was 
unable to get through. However  customers had a responsibility to make agreed  payments. 
So he thought it would  have been  reasonable for Mr W to contact Provident  to make 
payment over the phone,  or to set up a different payment method.
Ref: DRN72280252As Mr W was aware that payments were  due, the adjudicator couldnt recommend that the 
account be treated  as not in arrear.  He said Mr W should contact Provident to agree the 
repayment of the arrears  by an affordable repayment plan.
Mr W responded to say, in summary,  that:
Providents changes to its business  system,  by no longer collecting payments from 
customers at home, was a failure  of its basic responsibilities;
some of its representatives who did call didnt have Provident identification, so he wasnt  
willing to hand  over cash to them;
it was simplistic to say that he should have made more effort  to make his payments. 
This ignored  the turmoil  Provident was in at the time;
if Provident  accepted  that it was at fault for the disruption to its service, then why 
couldnt it confirm  his accounts as no longer being in arrears. He was concerned that at 
some time in the future the arrears might  be reported  as arrears on his credit file and so 
affect his credit  rating in future.
Mr W wanted confirmation that his present arrears wouldnt  be shown as such on his credit 
file at any time while his agreements  continued.  He asked what  recourse he would have if 
Provident later did show  the arrears  on his credit file.
The adjudicator still thought the steps  Provident  had taken were  reasonable. Mr W had tried 
to contact Provident without success. But he knew the payments  were due. The adjudicator 
thought it would have made sense, as Mr W knew he would be going into arrears, for him to 
keep hold of the expected repayments so that he could make  a bulk repayment  when he 
was able to speak to Provident, or a representative  could come  and collect a payment  from 
his house.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that given Providents  original  business  system, the changes  it made were 
disrupting to Mr Ws repayments. He found  it worrying that he couldnt  make payments on 
time and arrears were  mounting up.
Until the end of June 2017  Mr W seems to have made his payments regularly. Usually  these 
were paid weekly, but sometimes he paid up to four weeks in advance.  However payments 
stopped completely at the beginning of July 2017.
Mr W clearly knew that arrears were mounting  up. Like the adjudicator,  I think he could have 
done more to find an alternative  way of paying,  or could have kept money on one side until 
he could make a bulk payment. So I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to say that the 
payments he didnt make shouldnt be treated  as arrears.
I think what Provident offered in response to Mr Ws complaint was reasonable at the time in 
November 2017.  Since  then I understand Mr W still hasnt resumed payments, and hasnt 
made any arrangement  with Provident  to start paying off his arrears. Provident  says that 
while information is included at present on Mr Ws credit file showing his non payment,  this 
would be removed once  his accounts have  been brought  up to date.
Ref: DRN72280253In the circumstances, I cant reasonably direct Provident not to treat the payments Mr W has 
missed as arrears. I would simply urge Mr W now to make contact with Provident,  and to come 
to an affordable arrangement in respect of resuming payments and paying  off his arrears.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Provident 
Personal Credit Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7228025