K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a mortgage. 
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out on a store card on 1 April 1994.
Ref: DRN76650042The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed  on her store card.  The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt  work because  she had 
an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs S case.
I currently intend to not uphold  Mrs S complaint. Ill explain  my reasoning below.
FICL had to make  it clear to Mrs S that the policy was optional and get her consent before
PPI could  be applied  to the account. The policy was taken out in store. I dont know what happened  
during the sale so Ive looked at the paperwork available  to help me decide  whats likely to have 
happened.
Ive been given a copy of the application form that Mrs S completed when she took out the card and 
this includes a section for PPI. The box opting for the policy has been ticked. If Mrs S hadnt wanted 
the policy  she couldve ticked  the No box  which  has been left blank.
And Mrs S has signed  the form, so I think its likely to reflect what she wanted. So on balance
I think  its likely that FICL would have asked Mrs S for her agreement to add the policy to her account  
and she chose  to take it knowing she didnt  have  to. Although  its understandable that she no longer 
remembers this.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs S and I think thats likely  to be right. So it didnt 
have to check  if the policy  was right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it gave
Mrs S clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide  for herself  if she should take 
the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
even if FICL  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have made a difference. 
I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because Mrs S was eligible for the policy 
and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations  to the cover.
Mrs S says she had a medical condition at the time of sale. I note that she didnt mention this in her 
initial correspondence to us. Based on what shes told us about her condition,  it appears to have been 
under control at the time of sale and I think she wouldve  thought the likelihood of her having  to take 
an extended period of time of work as a result of this condition wouldve been slim. I dont think she 
wouldve expected  to have  to make a claim  for this condition,  and dont think  clearer information  about  
the policy  wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
Ive seen some conflicting information about Mrs S employment status at the time of sale.
Mrs S told us she was in temporary  work as a catering  assistant from January   September
1994. But she appears to have told FICL when  it was investigating her complaint that shed been 
employed with a packaging company since 1984. Mrs S hasnt  given a persuasive explanation  for this 
discrepancy and without  further evidence to support  what shes  told us about  her employment  status  
at the time (such as paperwork), Im not persuaded Mrs S was in temporary employment.
The PPI would have  paid out until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding  balance was 
cleared  whichever  came  first. And the policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. 
Ref: DRN76650043So I think she couldve found the policy useful  notwithstanding any employment  benefits  she may 
have been entitled to. It also wouldve allowed her to use any savings  she had to cover other  
necessary expenses  at what couldve  been  a difficult time.
Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been told, I dont think  Mrs S has lost out 
as a result of anything FICL  may have done wrong.
Ref: DRN7665004