K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Mrs C, complains about a commercial  fixed rate loan taken  out 
with Lloyds Bank Plc in 2013. Its said that Lloyds didnt provide enough information about 
the break costs  that might apply if the loan was repaid early. 
Its also claimed that Lloyds didnt have the necessary  authority  to liaise  with Mrs Cs son 
when the borrowing was taken out.
background
An adjudicator has already considered this complaint. He found that our service couldnt 
consider whether the fixed rate loan had been mis-sold as the complaint hadnt  been 
referred to us within 6 months of the final response letter  issued by Lloyds. 
He also found  that, on balance of the evidence, it was likely Mrs C had given her implied  
consent for Lloyds to liaise  with her son on her behalf.
In light of Mrs C remaining unhappy  with this outcome, the case  has now been referred to 
me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules Mrs C had 6 months from the date of the final response letter by Lloyds to 
refer her complaint  about the fixed rate loan to our service. Based on the evidence Ive seen 
its clear that this complaint wasnt referred to our service within  the relevant timeframe.  
Lloyds hasnt agreed to us looking  at this issue and Im not persuaded there are exceptional 
circumstances which would mean I should  consider it now. Im therefore not going to look at 
this issue.
However I can look at the issue  of whether  Lloyds  had the necessary authority to liaise  with 
Mrs Cs son. Like the adjudicator I too believe that Lloyds  was fair to find that Mrs C had 
given her implied consent for her son to negotiate  with them  on her behalf. From the 
evidence Ive seen  it appears Mrs Cs son and husband both had an active involvement  in 
her property portfolio  business. Mrs C did sign the relevant loan agreement paperwork and I 
believe if shed had any concerns, she should have raised these at the time with Lloyds. 
I understand the adjudicator asked  for statements from Mrs Cs son and husband to confirm 
whether or not theyd had authority to liaise  with Lloyds on her behalf. Unfortunately these 
havent been provided due to the parties  not at present being on speaking  terms. 
Overall I agree with the adjudicator that its reasonable to conclude  Mrs Cs son was 
negotiating on her behalf. I therefore  dont intend  to uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN77654422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of Mrs C, to accept or reject my decision before  24 May 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7765442