K820x#14complaint
Mr G is a director of a limited company which Ill refer to as T. Mr G complains, on behalf  of 
T, that Grove & Dean  Ltd (G&D)  didnt automatically renew his commercial vehicle insurance 
policy. 
For ease Ill refer to Mr G throughout rather than T. 
background
Mr G complained to G&D as one of Ts employees  had been  stopped  by the police for 
driving without insurance. Mr G said the policy was set up to automatically renew so there 
should be insurance in place. G&D said theyd tried to take payment to renew  the policy but 
the payment had been unsuccessful.  Because of this, when the previous 12 month policy  
came to an end they were  unable to automatically renew it. 
G&D said theyd e-mailed Mr G before the renewal date to let him know  the policy  was 
coming to an end. The e-mail set out when  the policy  was due for renewal along with the 
cost for the next 12 months insurance.  When G&D tried to take payment, a few days  before 
the renewal date, the payment was unsuccessful.  When this happened G&D  said they e-
mailed Mr G to let him know and asked him to get in touch to arrange  the renewal.  As the 
policy wasnt renewed G&D then e-mailed Mr G to confirm  the policy had lapsed. Mr G didnt 
agree G&D had tried to contact him and brought  his complaint here.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that G&D had 
also tried to call Mr G four times to let him know about his renewal. Because of this she 
found that reasonable attempts had been made to contact Mr G. Mr G disagreed, he said the 
calls were made by an automated system  so he thought they were scam  calls. He also said 
he didnt receive  any e-mails from G&D about his renewal. 
Because Mr G disagreed  the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement T has with G&D say that insurance  policies  
taken out through G&D will automatically  renew unless G&D are told otherwise. They also 
say renewal notice  will be sent in good time before the renewal. As Mr Gs policy  hasnt 
renewed automatically in line with the policy terms Ive looked  to see whether G&D made  fair 
and reasonable attempts  to let Mr G know. 
Just over two weeks before Mr Gs policy came  to an end G&D sent a bulk renewal e-mail to 
let Mr G know the policy was due to renew. G&D  said the bulk renewal e-mail is a standard 
e-mail they send to all customers with an attachment containing the renewal details  for that 
customer. As this was a bulk renewal e-mail G&D  have  been unable to show  us the exact e-
mail sent. G&D has provided  a copy of their internal  records showing it was sent and a copy  
of the attachment which included the details of the renewal. The e-mail address G&D have 
on file is also the same one Mr G has provided  to us. While  Ive been unable  to see the 
exact e-mail  Im satisfied its likely  G&D did send it and therefore let him know  when  his 
policy was due for renewal. 
Ref: DRN75157412G&D have  also provided a copy of the e-mail sent the day before the policy  lapsed.  This e-
mail explains that the policy cant be renewed  unless they have Mr Gs consent  and asks 
him to get in contact so the renewal can be arranged. G&D e-mailed again when the policy  
lapsed to let Mr G know.  I understand Mr G disputes receiving the e-mails, but as G&D have 
provided copies  of the e-mails Im satisfied they were sent. 
Ive also listened  to the calls made to Mr G. These  calls were made two days  before his 
policy expired, the day before it expired and also on the day it ran out. Mr G said as the calls 
are automated he thought they were  scams.  I understand Mr Gs concern about scam calls 
but Im unable to agree  these calls sounded like a scam. While the calls are automated they 
say theyre calling from G&D and that the call is about his insurance.  In three of the calls I 
hear an employee of T answer  the phone listen to the message and hang up. The fourth  call 
was unanswered  but goes on to leave a voicemail asking Mr G to contact G&D. Because 
they say who theyre from and what the call is about Im satisfied they were  enough  to let   
Mr G know he needed to contact G&D.  
Given the e-mails and calls Im satisfied  G&D  let Mr G know his policy needed renewing, in 
line with the terms  of his agreement. Im also persuaded  they acted fairly and reasonably 
with the amount of contact they made.  Because of this I wont be asking G&D to do anything 
different. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
T to accept or reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7515741