K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about several business  loans Mr A holds with Lloyds Bank PLC, secured 
on four properties.  Hes unhappy  that Lloyds refused to release its charge on one of the 
properties when  Mr A enquired about redeeming the loan secured by that charge. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr A wishes  to redeem one of his loans so that the charge on it can be lifted.  Lloyds has 
said it will only release the charge if Mr A reduces his overall debt across all of the loans by 
£67,000. Lloyds  has said it will consider varying  that amount if Mr A agrees to the properties 
being revalued by its approved valuer, at his cost. 
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. The 
investigator pointed  out that the charges Lloyds held over Mr As properties are what  is 
known as all-monies charges. He also said it was Lloyds commercial  prerogative to require 
any revaluations  to be carried out by its approved valuer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In asking for a review, Mr A hasnt made  
any material new points or presented any material  new evidence for me to consider. From 
that, Ive inferred that he wants  me to decide  the complaint  on the basis  of the same  
evidence that the investigator considered. Ive done  that, and I have some disappointing 
news for Mr A; Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as the investigator  and for much 
the same  overall  reasons.  
The effect of an all-monies charge is that it allows a lender to take a portfolio approach when 
assessing its debt exposure and the security for that debt. Where a borrower is asking  for 
the security to be reduced - as Mr A has done here by asking for the charge to be removed 
from one of his properties  - a lender can require the overall debt to be reduced by more  than 
just the balance secured directly by the property being released. 
Its an exercise of commercial judgement on a lenders part, and it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to second-guess  or otherwise interfere with how Lloyds has exercised its judgement 
here. That includes not just the broad principle, but also the specific  amount by which Lloyds  
has asked Mr A to reduce  his debt.
In fairness, Lloyds has said it is willing to reconsider the figure  of £67,000 if Mr A agrees to 
the properties being revalued. Its normal practice  for lenders to rely on the professional  
opinions of approved valuers; its also normal, and perfectly fair, to expect the cost of any 
revaluation to be met by the borrower.
Ref: DRN74646782I appreciate Mr A finds the way Lloyds has exercised its commercial judgement  unwelcome,  
and of course hes entitled  to feel that way, but it hasnt acted unfairly, and thats the test I 
have to apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7464678