K820x#14complaint
Ms C was mis-sold a pension policy by Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada (U.K.) 
(Sun Life). Sun Life offered her compensation to put things right, but Ms C doesnt  agree 
with how Sun Life intends  to pay this compensation. 
background
Ms C started a Free-Standing Additional  Voluntary  Contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1997  with 
what is now Sun Life. She stopped  contributing to the plan in 2008. 
In 2017 Ms C complained to Sun Life about the sale of the FSAVC  plan.  Sun Life looked into 
her concerns  and concluded that it couldnt be sure that Ms C was able to make an informed 
decision regarding the options available to her because even though  there were clear  
positive reasons for recommending the FSAVC it didnt  believe  [Ms Cs]adviser made [her] 
fully aware of the costs implications between the In-House AVC and FSAVC. So it upheld 
her complaint. 
Sun Life then arranged for independent  actuaries to conduct a loss assessment to see how 
much her contributions to the FSAVC  would now be worth if Ms C had instead made these 
same contributions to her employers in-house added years  scheme. This assessment 
concluded that Ms C had suffered a financial loss and Sun Life offered to set up a new 
pension plan and pay £9,463.48 into the plan for her. Sun Life said this amount includes an 
amount to cover the future plan charges. 
Ms C didnt accept this offer. She explained that while she decided the amount offered was 
acceptable, she did not want another pension plan with Sun Life. So she asked to have the 
redress paid to her as cash. 
Sun Life didnt agree,  explaining 
There has been a clear indication from our regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), that we should always look to apply any financial loss as an enhancement to 
the existing personal pension arrangement unless you confirm  you do not have the 
earnings, available annual allowance or you will lose a form of Lifetime Allowance 
protection. If it is not possible to pay the financial loss amount into your personal 
pension arrangement, as an enhancement, the financial loss should  be paid in the 
form of a cash lump sum.
Ms C remained unhappy,  so she brought her complaint  to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into her concerns and tried to mediate  a resolution between  
the parties but Sun Life wasnt willing to change  its position. 
The investigator subsequently explained  to Ms C the regulatory requirements and that Sun 
Life werent wrong in wanting to put the redress money into a pension plan. He also let her 
know that Sun Life said she can transfer  the benefits  from the new plan without penalty.
Ms C wasnt  persuaded  to change her mind,  so the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN73340042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree the offer of 
redress made by Sun Life is fair. To come to my decision, I have taken account of relevant 
law, regulation, guidance and what I consider to be good industry practice. 
Sun Life has accepted  the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. It conducted a loss assessment in line 
with the regulators  guidance and offered redress. So the only issue  for me to consider  is 
whether the proposed form of the redress offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
When looking to put things right, the aim is to put the consumer as close as possible to the 
position they would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. In this case, Ms C is not yet able 
to access her retirement benefits. So to require Sun Life to pay her redress as a lump sum 
would put her in a different position than she would now be in if things had gone as they 
should have during the 1997  sale.  
And Ive not seen  any evidence that a contribution  to a new pension arrangement wouldnt 
be possible  because Ms C doesnt have the earnings, available  annual  allowance or she 
would lose a form of Lifetime Allowance protection. In such  a case, the regulators guidance 
instructs that compensation  be paid as an enhancement to an existing personal pension 
arrangement. While Ive carefully considered everything Ms Cs said,  Im not persuaded it 
would be fair or reasonable to depart from the regulators guidance in this instance.
So in all the circumstances  of this case, Im satisfied that the offer made to Ms C by Sun Life 
is fair and reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, but this offer puts her in as close to the 
position she would been in now but for the unsuitable advice to take out an FSAVC. I 
appreciate Ms C does  not want another pension plan with Sun Life, but I note that she is 
able to transfer to a plan with another provider of her choosing without penalty.  
Taking all of this into account,  Im not going to tell Sun Life to do anything other than
what it has already offered, although it will need to recalculate the redress  offered per 
its final response letter and regulatory  guidance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)s offer 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
redress to Ms C as set out in its offer of 30 August 2018, updated in accordance with the 
guidelines issued  by the regulator. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2020.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73340043
Ref: DRN7334004