K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about advice he received from Independent Benefit Consultancy Limited 
(who Ive referred to as IBC Limited below) in 2016  to transfer  the value of his deferred 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  with a former  employer to a personal pension  
policy. 
background
Mr M was referred to IBC Limited by another firm of financial advisers  for advice about  
transferring his deferred benefits in a former  employers OPS.
IBC Limiteds pension  planning report recorded that Mr M was aged  61, married  and 
employed, earning £35,000 a year. He owned his own home  with an estimated value of 
£110,000, subject to a mortgage of £38,000. His main  objective  was recorded as not wanting 
to wait until the OPS  retirement age of 65 to take his benefits.  He wanted to access £20,000 
of his tax free cash entitlement  immediately as he had some  worries about debt. He was 
also concerned  about  his long-term mortality and was on medication for a health  condition. 
His wife also had a medical condition for which she was taking medication. Shed reduced 
her working hours and was considering taking her benefits from a large statutory OPS. An 
attitude to risk assessment was completed which showed Mr M had a balanced  attitude  to 
investment risk. 
Mr Ms OPS  had offered  a CETV  (cash  equivalent  transfer value) of £148,274.44 which  was 
guaranteed until 26 November 2016.   The OPS benefits at age 65 were  estimated to be an 
annual pension of £9,961  or a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) of £45,435 and a 
reduced pension  of £6,815 a year.  
IBC Limited  recommended that Mr M transferred his OPS benefits  to a personal  pension and 
invested in one of the providers cautious funds.  The transfer went ahead  and Mr M received 
a partial payment of his PCLS.  
Mr M complained to IBC Limited  in 2018. It didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M referred it to 
us. It was investigated by one of our adjudicators. She issued her view on 15 May 2019.  She 
upheld the complaint and set out how IBC Limited  should redress Mr M. 
IBC Limited  didnt accept  the adjudicators assessment. Ive summarised IBC Limiteds main 
points:
Mr Ms objective was to gain a breathing  space  to remove  worry, emotional and 
financial trauma experienced by previous poor debt positions. Mr M was still 
employed. There might have been other  ways to reduce his debt. But that would 
have exacerbated  his overall situation. 
Early retirement from the OPS  may have  provided access to capital but would have 
resulted in additional taxed income and eradicated  access to future lump sums.
Health and longevity were major issues for both Mr M and his wife. The ability  to 
enjoy capital and income levels in the early years  of retirement was important to 
them. . 
Face to face contact with Mr M meant IBC Limited knew  its client and fully 
understood his circumstances, goals, objectives,  worries  and concerns.  The 
recommendations were  based  on the information it had gathered and with full 
consideration of Mr Ms overall  position. 
Ref: DRN74952072The advantages  and disadvantages were  fully highlighted, discussed, explained, and 
understood by Mr M before any action  was taken. 
IBC Limited maintained that transferring  to a drawdown arrangement and accessing 
£20,000 of the PCLS  to provide for liabilities,  give a breathing  space and remove  
worry was the most suitable advice for Mr M. 
His complaint wasnt about the transfer  advice  but about what  another  business had 
done later.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  referred  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id refer first to what the regulators guidance says and in particular to COBS 19.1.6G. At the 
time the advice was given that provision  said: 
Suitability
When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert  or  opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
So the starting point is that transferring wont be suitable. Ive considered whether the 
transfer could  have been in Mr Ms best interests. 
As the adjudicator pointed out, IBC Limited  carried out calculations to determine the critical 
yield. Thats  the rate of investment return that Mr Ms pension  fund would have to achieve 
after the transfer in order that the personal  pension policy when  Mr M retired  would provide 
the same  level of benefits as those provided  by the OPS (and which  Mr M would be giving 
up if he transferred out of the OPS).
Here the critical yield was 18.17% if Mr M was to take all his benefits as a pension or 
13.29% if he took a reduced  pension  plus tax free cash. With effect from 1 January 2016 
(and up until 6 April 2017) the regulators assumed future growth rates  for personal  pensions 
illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (higher). So the critical yield 
required just to match the benefits  being  given up would have been considered to be high.
IBC Limited  recognised the importance  of the critical yield, at least if Mr M intended to 
purchase an annuity. IBC Limiteds report went on to say that he should  only proceed (with  a 
transfer) if he understood a number of points: that hed be giving up the guaranteed income 
the OPS would provide; there  was a risk the personal pension  benefits wouldnt be as high 
as those of the OPS;  the OPS was likely  to provide  a higher level of benefits if Mr M lived 
beyond his normal life expectancy; his deferred OPS benefits  werent  subject to investment 
risk and were guaranteed whereas the pension income from a personal pension wasnt 
guaranteed and depended on investment returns and was subject to investment risk.
Ref: DRN74952073Like the adjudicator,  I dont think simply setting out the risk factors  was enough. Despite 
what IBC Limited has said about  its face to face discussions with Mr M, Im not convinced he 
fully understood  the value of his OPS benefits  and the long term consequences of giving up 
those virtually guaranteed benefits in favour  of a personal pension which was subject to 
investment risk. I also note what was said about the relevance of the critical yield if Mr M 
was contemplating  annuity purchase. Mr M may have  understood that it wasnt  a significant 
factor in his decision. I recognise the critical yield isnt the only consideration. But a high 
critical yield would suggest  the transfer value on offer is low and doesnt represent  good 
value in return for the benefits being given up. 
Mr M was assessed as having  a medium attitude to invest  risk. So he was apparently willing  
to accept some degree of risk with his pension benefits. But Im not sure he had any real 
capacity for loss. He didnt have any other  pension  provision aside from his state pension 
entitlement. Hed have  been dependent in retirement on the benefits the OPS would provide 
which, as Ive said, were virtually guaranteed. Those benefits  represented a significant part 
of his overall wealth.  His only other asset  was his house. Mr Ms overall  financial  position 
would indicate  that a transfer wouldnt be in his best interests. 
IBC Limiteds report records that Mr M would like to access £20,000 of his PCLS 
immediately to provide breathing space as [he was] worried about debt having been  in a 
previous debt position. This would also allow for expenditure on [his] kitchen and garden 
without taking on additional borrowing.
I can understand Mr Ms thinking and his wish to be debt free and have extra  cash for home 
improvements. I can see hed be keen not to repeat any previous poor experience.  But it 
doesnt seem at the time he had any debts  which needed to be repaid urgently. Even if debt 
repayment was a priority, Mr M and his wife were still working (although  she had reduced 
her hours).  Consideration  doesnt appear  to have been given as to whether  any debts could 
be managed differently  and avoiding the need  to transfer to access  the PCLS  and give up 
the security of the benefits the OPS would provide in a few years time. I think  Mr Ms options 
should have been explored  in more detail and those discussions recorded. 
I note Mr M did have  some health  issues. As did his wife. Health and mortality 
considerations may feature  in a decision to transfer. But here I dont think  Mr Ms (and his 
wifes) concerns were such as would  make transferring an obvious choice. 
All in all I think the rationale for transferring was weak. I dont think  a transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. The likelihood was that hed be worse off in retirement in consequence of 
transferring. I dont think that was outweighed by any need or wish Mr M had to access  
capital immediately. I think  he should have been advised  to retain his OPS benefits.  
Ive no reason to think, if Mr M had been  advised against transferring, hed have ignored that 
advice and transferred  anyway.  I think hed have heeded advice to retain his OPS  benefits.  
So my aim in awarding redress  is to put Mr M, as far as possible, in the position hed be in 
now, but for the unsuitable advice to transfer out of his OPS.  
I note what happened  after the transfer  had been undertaken. Mr M was referred  back to his 
usual advisers. That was the firm that had introduced Mr M to IBC Limited as it didnt have 
the necessary  permissions to advise on OPS transfers. That firm made  an error in 
processing Mr Ms request for payment of his remaining PCLS. Too much money was 
Ref: DRN74952074requested and paid. That firm settled with Mr M and has redressed him for the losses  he 
incurred in direct consequence of that firms error.  
IBC Limited  has suggested that Mr Ms complaint only arose because of what  the other  firm 
did. I dont agree. Its clear, whatever happened about payment of the balance of the PCLS, 
Mr M was also unhappy with the advice to transfer, which advice IBC Limited gave.  
The redress  Ive set out below will allow  for the sums Mr M has received and IBC Limited 
can also take into account the offer made by the other firm and accepted  by Mr M.
fair compensation 
IBC Limited  must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated in October 2017.  The calculation should  be carried out as at the date 
of this decision and should use the most  recent financial assumptions published. In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance  of my 
final decision. 
IBC Limited  may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) for Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension plan isnt 
possible or has protection or allowance implications,  it should be paid directly  to Mr M as a 
lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for future income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
A tax-free  cash sum from the OPS  has already  been  taken  into account in the payment for 
past loss above; the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable income only.  So it would 
be appropriate to reduce  the loss by 20% to reflect the net of tax loss Mr M has suffered.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr M 
within 90 days of the date IBC Limited  receives notification  of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes IBC Limited  to pay Mr M this compensation. 
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
IBC Limited  should  also pay Mr M £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
its unsuitable advice  has caused Mr M. 
Ref: DRN74952075my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Independent Benefit Consultancy Limited must redress Mr M as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7495207