K821x#15Complaint
Mr M is complaining about  Quilter  Wealth Ltd (formerly Intrinsic Wealth Ltd) because  he 
says he was mis-sold a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP), into which  he transferred an 
existing pension, that was used to fund an unregulated investment. He says he wasnt told 
the investment  was unregulated.
Background
In his police  witness  statement, Mr M said he and his wife had dealt with Mr N of Diamond 
Estates for approximately 20 years and made  a number of investments on his advice.
In June/July 2010, Mr M transferred almost  £54,000  from his existing personal pension with 
AXA into a SIPP run by Stadia  Trustees  Ltd. The SIPP was established  on 14 June 2010.  
Following his application in August 2010, £50,000  of the money  in Mr Ms SIPP was invested 
in an unregulated scheme with Forestry  for Life (FFL). I understand the investment went into 
liquidation in 2011 and Mr M lost his money. The person responsible  for running the scheme,  
Mr A, was subsequently  convicted and imprisoned. 
The SIPP and investment were set up following discussions with an adviser, Mr N, who Mr M 
says he had been dealing with as his adviser  for a number of years. Mr N worked for 
Diamond Estates (NI) Ltd, which was an appointed representative of Quilter (formerly Mint 
Financial Services Ltd and then Intrinsic  Wealth Ltd), and Mr M thinks its responsible for his 
losses. Mr M says the discussions also involved Mr A, and a representative from Stadia,  
Mr H.
Since Mr Ms SIPP was established, Stadia has ceased trading. I understand the SIPP has 
now been taken  over by another provider,  Mattioli Woods  Plc. Mr M complained about 
Stadia around  the same time as he complained about Quilter. That complaint was 
subsequently referred  to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) but I 
understand it didnt  award compensation.
Prior to his investment in 2010,  Mr M made  an earlier investment of £25,000 into FFL in 
2009. I understand this was a joint investment with his wife. The 2009 investment isnt part of 
this complaint. From what Ive seen, it appears it was made  before Diamond Estates (NI) 
became an appointed representative of Intrinsic  Wealth in August 2009. Prior  to that, our 
records indicate Diamond  Estates (NI) had been  an appointed representative of Intrinsic 
Financial Services Ltd (now Quilter Financial  Services Ltd) since  August 2008  and its likely  
any complaint about the original investment would need to be addressed  to that business  in 
the first instance.
Quilter didnt accepted  responsibility for Mr Ms complaint and made  the following key points:
Its only responsible  for certain activities of its appointed representatives. By June 
2010, Mr N was a mortgage adviser  only and wasnt authorised  to advise on 
investments and pensions. So he wasnt representing Quilter during any discussions 
with Mr M about his SIPP and the FFL investment.  Mr N had previously been 
authorised to advise  on investments  and pensions, but his authorisations were 
changed following  an annual  competence assessment  in April 2010.
Ref: DRN79847682Mr N worked  for Diamond Estates (NI), which was its appointed representative. But 
he also represented another  business,  Diamond Estates Worldwide Ltd, which  had 
no connection with Quilter. The SIPP referral  form provided  shows Mr N was 
representing Diamond  Estates  Worldwide  when  arranging  for Mr Ms pension  to be 
transferred into his SIPP.
Mr N has denied advising Mr M and theres  no documentation that shows  otherwise. 
This is also supported  by the relevant section of the SIPP application that was ticked  
to say the financial adviser recorded  on the form didnt  give any advice in relation to 
the SIPP.
The FFL literature clearly stated  the investment was unregulated and the associated 
risks. 
Mr M had made an earlier investment with FFL that he was said to be happy with.
Quilter also raised the issue of whether  Mr M complained in time, in line with the time limits 
set out in our rules.  That was considered by one of my colleagues who issued a decision 
saying he was satisfied  the complaint was referred  to us in time.
I then considered the wider jurisdiction points and issued a decision  saying  this is a case we 
can investigate.  In summary,  I concluded  the following
I didnt make a clear finding on whether  Mr N advised Mr M. But I was satisfied the 
evidence indicated  Mr N was at least involved  in arranging  the transfer of Mr Ms 
pension to a SIPP  and investment within the SIPP  and these actions constituted 
regulated activity. 
The evidence also indicated Mr N acted for Diamond Estates (NI)  and therefore  as 
a representative  of Quilter - when he did so.
Under its appointed  representative agreement with Quilter,  Diamond Estates (NI) 
was authorised to advise on pensions and investments. While Mr N wasnt 
authorised to do so in his own right after an annual competence assessment in April 
2010, I took the view this wasnt  sufficient  to conclude Quilter  wasnt  responsible for 
his actions. I reached this conclusion after taking  into account the judgements in 
various recent court cases.
Mr Ms case was then returned to one of our investigators to consider the merits. She felt it 
should be upheld  and set out her views on how Quilter should put things right.  She 
concluded Mr N gave  unsuitable advice for Mr M to transfer his pension to the SIPP  and 
invest with FFL, and said he should be returned (as far as possible)  to the position hed 
currently be in if hed received suitable  advice.
Quilter didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. It referred  back to its previous correspondence and made the following specific  
points:
The entity of the company involved is crucial to this case.  It asked that we specify 
whether were referring to Diamond Estates (NI) Ltd or Diamond Estates Worldwide.
Ref: DRN79847683Mr M had an ongoing  relationship with both of these businesses. It asked which of 
them he says he approached in 2010.
Mr N wasnt  qualified or authorised to deal with a SIPP provider as a financial adviser  
and basic checks by Stadia would have  confirmed this.
Theres no evidence any representative of Quilter has ever provided  pension advice 
to Mr M. His original  £25,000 investment in FFL, as Mr M is aware,  was done through 
Diamond Estates  Worldwide and its records confirm this. Furthermore  it was a joint 
investment by Mr M and his wife.
The investigator said Mr M approached  Mr N for a pension review,  but Mr N couldnt 
give that advice  because he was a mortgage adviser. He wasnt authorised  as a 
pensions adviser.
The investigator referred to a fee for the initial advice but no evidence has been  
provided that this was deducted from the transfer amount. Further,  in his witness  
statement, Mr M only referred  to the fee paid to Stadia. He made no mention  of an 
initial advice fee paid to Mr N.
 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im upholding it.
In making his witness statement to the police, Mr M said that he dealt with Mr N of Diamond 
Estates. The statement doesnt specify whether this was Diamond Estates (NI) or Diamond 
Estates Worldwide.  He said hed been  dealing with Mr N for a long time and Ive not seen 
anything to make me believe  he understood the difference between the two businesses, 
particularly given the similarity  in their names,  and I certainly think its unlikely he would have 
understood the intricacies of their relationships with other businesses, including Quilter,  or 
their implications.
Quilter says Mr M was aware his initial investment in FFL was made through Diamond 
Estates Worldwide,  rather than Diamond Estates (NI). But I dont think its provided  sufficient  
evidence to demonstrate this was the case,  or that he understood the implications of this if 
its true. Ive noted  Quilters comment about  the original investment being made in joint 
names, but I dont think that has any implications for this case.
The SIPP application indicates Diamond Estates (NI) was due to receive commission  for 
arranging the SIPP, but I cant be sure whether this was ever paid and thats  difficult to 
check now Stadia has ceased trading. But this wasnt  the only evidence that I felt indicated  
Mr N was acting for Diamond Estates (NI), and therefore as a representative of Quilter,  when 
he dealt with Mr Ms pension transfer  and investment.  I set out the reasons why I believed 
the available  evidence showed this was the case in my decision on jurisdiction.  Quilter  hasnt 
provided any further evidence to make  me change  my conclusions on this issue.
I understand Mr N wasnt personally  authorised to deal with pensions and investments 
following a competence assessment in April 2010, but Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr M 
would have known  that. Crucially though, Diamond Estates (NI) as a business was 
authorised to deal in these areas  and, for the reasons explained  in my decision on 
Ref: DRN79847684jurisdiction, Im satisfied this means  Quilter can be held responsible in this case even if Mr N 
was acting outside his own personal  permissions. 
If Quilter  believes Stadia  should  have realised Mr N wasnt authorised  to deal with pensions 
and investments on behalf  of Diamond Estates (NI) and acted differently, thats something it 
would need to take up separately. I dont think it has any bearing on Mr Ms complaint.
As I set out in my decision on jurisdiction, I think the evidence  is clear that Mr N was involved 
in arranging Mr Ms pension transfer  into the SIPP and unregulated investment and that 
alone constituted a regulated activity.  Turning to the question  of whether Mr N gave advice,  
Mr M said in his police  witness statement that his initial investment with FFL initially 
produced the returns hed been told to expect and that this was the case  when he attended 
Mr Ns offices to meet with him and Mr H of Stadia  in 2010. It was during these discussions, 
and further discussions  with Mr N and Mr A of FFL, that Mr M says he was recommended 
to transfer his pension to the Stadia SIPP and invest further.
Im conscious theres no formal documentation, in the form of fact finds  and suitability reports 
for example, to show  Mr N gave  advice. But equally,  he doesnt appear it have asked Mr M 
to sign an execution-only statement to confirm  he didnt  receive  advice and was aware of the 
consequences, which is common practice  in the industry. 
The absence of a fact find and suitability report doesnt mean Mr M didnt receive advice and 
I think theres other documentation from the time that indicates he did. This includes:
The SIPP referral form dated  8 June 2010 on Diamond  Estates  Worldwide headed 
paper. This says:
Customers should complete this form should  they wish to be referred to an 
IFA by Diamond Estates  World  Wide
The form also says:
Independent Financial Advisor
(if you have a preferred  pension advisor please state if not Diamond  Estates 
Worldwide will submit  your form to a suitable pension  advisor)
It then appears to record Stadia Trustees as the preferred adviser.
As I discussed in my decision on jurisdiction, I think this shows Mr M was being  
referred to an independent  financial adviser (IFA) by Diamond Estates Worldwide,  
presumably so he could  receive advice. As everybody seems to accept  Stadia 
couldnt provide  advice  on this transaction, its currently difficult to conceive who 
Mr M would have been referred to if not Diamond  Estates (NI).
The SIPP application  form dated 8 June 2010  that records  Mr Ms adviser as Mr N. 
His address was entered using a stamp headed  Diamond Estates (NI) Ltd. The form 
appears to confirm he would receive 3% initial and 1% renewal commission  for 
arranging the SIPP.
The SIPP application did also include a section  where no was ticked  in response to the 
following question:
Ref: DRN79847685I confirm that the above professional adviser  [Mr N of Diamond Estates (NI)] has 
given me advice in relation to the essential SIPP. 
But the form doesnt explain what this meant at all or what  the consequences were,  in the 
way an execution-only statement would have  done for example. So I dont think  its clear  
Mr M would have understood this or been in a position to dispute  it if it wasnt  correct.  For 
this reason, I dont  think its compelling evidence advice wasnt  given.
I understand Mr M had dealt with Mr N for a number of years as his financial adviser and I 
dont think the evidence shows he should have thought Mr N was operating in a different 
capacity when discussing his pension and investment in 2010. From the evidence provided, I 
can see Mr M also met with others, including Mr A and Mr H, prior to transferring  his 
pension. But I think he would have placed most reliance on the advice of his long-standing 
and trusted financial  adviser  in making  important decisions involving his pension and 
investments. 
Aside from his previous  investment  with FFL, which also appears to have been arranged  
through Mr N and seems  to have been performing well initially,  Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr M was a particularly knowledgeable or sophisticated investor.  I dont think  its likely he 
would have made decisions about transferring his pension benefits and complex, 
unregulated investments without advice from his financial adviser in whom  he appears  to 
have placed considerable  trust, established during a long-term  professional relationship.  
Ive taken account of Mr Ns recollections  of what happened but, on balance,  I find Mr Ms 
account  as set out in his police witness  statement  that Mr N did give him advice to be 
more compelling  for the reasons above.
I realise Mr M had limited recent, but to that point positive, experience  of the FFL investment 
and may have been interested  in increasing  his exposure. But as the adviser,  Mr N had a 
responsibility to make  sure what was being  proposed was suitable  for his circumstances and 
needs. And if he didnt  think it was, to make him aware of that. 
Even if Mr N didnt  give advice and was only involved in arranging the pension and 
investment, I think he still had a responsibility  to make sure the investment was suitable. 
This view is supported by an Alert on pension  transfers with a view to investing into 
unregulated products through  SIPPs issued by the regulator  at that time, the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) - in January 2013.  Although the alert was issued after the actions in 
this case took place, it commented on how the rules should have been complied with at the 
time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are 
giving advice to custom ers on pension  transfers or pension switche s without 
assessing the advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be 
held within the new pension. In particula r, we have seen financial advisers movi ng 
custom ers retirement savings to self-investe d persona l pensions (SIPPs) that 
invest wholly or primarily in high  risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  
investme nts  (some  which  may  be  in Unregulate d   Collective   Investment   
Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulate d investme nts are  overseas 
Ref: DRN79847686property developm ents, store  pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The 
financial adviser  does not give advice on the unregulated investm ent, and says it is 
only providing advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investm ent 
(e.g an overseas property development). When customers express an interest in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser 
to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated investment. The 
financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing advice on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated investment. The 
financial adviser does  not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing advice  on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated investment. 
Sometimes the regulated financial adviser also assists the customer  to unlock 
monies held in other investments (e.g. other pension arrangements)  so that the 
customer is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistake n impression that 
this process means they do not have to conside r the unregulated investme nt as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the 
suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice  generally requires 
consid eration of the other investme nts held by the custom er or, when advice is 
given on a product which is a vehicle for investme nt in other produc ts (such as 
SIPPs), consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It 
should be particul arly clear to financ ial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks 
advice on a pension transfer in impleme nting a wider investment strategy the 
pension transfer must  take account of the overall investm ent strategy the customer 
is contemplating .
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  know ing  that  
the custom er will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to 
invest in an overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
overseas property investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the 
customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual 
circumstances of the custom er, the original pension produc t, including its 
unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the custom er, then the SIPP is not 
suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recommendation will 
enable investm ent in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated 
elements from the regulated elements.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business 
rules and also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to 
first take time to familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial 
circumst ances. Unless the adviser  has done  so, they will not be in a positi on to 
make recommendations on new produc ts.
Ref: DRN79847687I think the guidance is clear that advisers shouldnt  be making  arrangements with a 
consumers pension that will facilitate  the use of unregulated  investments  without  first 
considering whether that investment is suitable for them.  If Mr N wasnt willing  or able to do 
that, he should have refused to act so Mr M could speak to another adviser  who was. I 
therefore believe I need to consider whether the FFL investment was suitable  for Mr M. And 
if it wasnt, whether its appropriate  to require Quilter to put things right.
When Mr M first contacted us, he said Mr N told him the SIPP  was actually a way to 
safeguard his pension and ensure the proceeds  went to the people he wanted to receive 
them if he passed away. If he went into the SIPP looking  to safeguard his pension, that 
suggests he wasnt looking  to take significant  risks with the associated investments.
But the FFL investment  wasnt held in a well-diversified selection of equities and other 
orthodox assets. It instead invested  in a single commodity that was based overseas. Further, 
it was an unregulated investment that meant he couldnt fall back on the protection offered 
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things went wrong.  This was a 
high-risk, specialised investment of the type the industry regulator  has said shouldnt have 
been promoted to unsophisticated retail investors.
In the absence of an assessment of Mr Ms attitude  to investment risk, or any other advice 
documentation such as a fact find or suitability letter, Ive no reason to believe he was willing 
to accept the degree of risk associated with investing almost  all the money  transferred from 
his AXA pension in this way. In my view, the overall  proposition appears to present a greater 
degree of risk than Mr M was willing to accept and shouldnt have been recommended.
I appreciate Mr M made an earlier  investment with FFL. But given that was so recent and 
had performed in line with expectations up to that point,  I dont think  this in any way 
demonstrates he understood the associated risks and was prepared  to accept them. Even  if 
I were  to accept that was the case, Id still have serious concerns because  the second  
investment meant an even larger portion  of his pension was invested  in this way. Advisers 
also have a responsibility to make  sure a clients overall portfolio is appropriately balanced  
and diversified and I dont think a further large investment in the same high-risk, unregulated 
product met that aim.
In considering this case, I also note Mr H sent an email to Mr N on 15 August 2010  
approximately one week before Mr M signed  the FFL application - clarifying how he intended  
to invest the money  in his SIPP. In the email, Mr H said:
It has been brought to my attention that The Daily Mail published an article this 
Saturday (14th) concerning Kate Middletons  brother  and an Investigation  by the FSA 
into Forestry  For Life. I will send a scanned copy of the article  for your information.  
Stadias position  is quite  clear. On the 4th June, XXXX and XXXX from The investor 
Club visited our offices  to discuss the requirements the FSA are looking for from a 
SIPP operator and which should have subsequently  been formalised in-house by 
The Investor Club.
While its not clear  exactly what  the outcome would be, I think  the discovery that the 
investment was being (or was about  to be) investigated by the FCA was something  that 
should have caused Mr N to question the wisdom of Mr M making  a further investment. At 
the very least,  I think he should have told Mr M about this. If he had done, I think its unlikely  
he would  have proceeded.
Ref: DRN79847688Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr N should have advised Mr M to transfer his 
pension benefits  to facilitate the FFL investment. And if this was something Mr M initially  
expressed an interest in doing, I think Mr N should  have advised  him against it. If Mr N had 
acted as he should, I dont think Mr M would have transferred his pension  benefits  or made 
the investment  with FFL.
Putting Things  Right
My aim is to return Mr M (as far as possible) to the position hed probably now be in if hed 
received suitable  advice.  As Ive explained  above, I think this would have meant  his pension 
benefits were invested differently. Mr M has suggested to us that he wasnt  happy with his 
existing pension arrangements and was looking to make changes. With suitable advice, I 
think its most likely  he would  have  maintained  his pension  with AXA while making changes 
to the funds he invested in with the aim of improving  returns.  
Unfortunately, its unlikely to be possible for Quilter to reinstate Mr M into his AXA pension  
scheme. There are also a number of possibilities  and unknown factors I need to consider. 
For example, whether  he will receive any money  in future  in respect of the FFL investment. 
While this may currently seem unlikely, I cant be certain of that.
Its complicated to put Mr M back  in the position  he would have been in if suitable advice had 
been given, but I think  its fair hes compensated now.  Its not possible to say precisely what 
he would  have done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
In summary,  Quilter should:
1.Calculate the notional  transfer value of Mr Ms AXA pension  plan,  at the date of this 
final decision, if it had not been  transferred to the SIPP  and assuming it had 
generated returns in line with the benchmark set out below since  the date it was 
transferred into the SIPP.
2.Obtain the transfer value, at the date of my final decision, of Mr Ms Stadia/Mattioli  
Woods SIPP, including any outstanding charges. 
3.Then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ms SIPP so the transfer  value is increased  by 
the amount calculated. This payment should take account  of any available tax relief  
and the effect  of charges.
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr M to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr M £600 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ive set out each  point  in further  detail below.
1.Calculate the notional transfer value of Mr Ms AXA pension  plan, at the date of this final 
decision, if it had not been transferred to the SIPP and assuming it had generated 
returns in line with the benchmark set out below since the date it was transferred into the 
SIPP.
Quilter should calculate  the notional transfer value  that would have applied  to Mr Ms AXA 
pension at the date of this decision if hed remained invested and received returns  calculated 
Ref: DRN79847689using the following benchmark - for half the investment, the FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Income Total Return Index; and for the other  half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
To calculate the average rate from fixed rate bonds,  Quilter should use the monthly average 
rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
I think Mr M wanted growth without significant risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider Mr Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense  that he was prepared to 
take some risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt  mean Mr M would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return 
he could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Quilter should assume any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates.
2. Obtain the transfer value, at the date of my final decision, of Mr Ms Stadia/Mattioli  
Woods SIPP, including  any outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator, which  is likely to be based  on the FFL 
investment having  a nil value.  If the operator  has continued to take charges from the SIPP  
and there  wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them, it might be a negative  figure.  
3.Pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ms SIPP so the transfer value is increased by the 
amount calculated.  This payment  should take account of any available tax relief and the 
effect of charges.
The amount  paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. But 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Intrinsic should  pay it as a cash 
sum to Mr M. But had it been  possible to pay it into the SIPP,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate 
Ref: DRN798476810taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr M would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr M to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had Quilter given suitable advice I dont think Mr M would  have the Stadia/Mattioli  Woods  
SIPP and its not fair for him to continue paying the annual SIPP  fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, Quilter should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr M back in the position he would have been in. But Im not sure if the 
ownership of the FFL investment can currently be transferred in this way or if the SIPP can 
currently be closed. If not, and to provide certainty  to all parties, I think its fair for Quilter to 
pay Mr M an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for things to be worked  
out so the SIPP can be closed. 
If Quilter  is unable  to purchase  the investment, and in return for the compensation outlined 
above, it may require  Mr M to provide an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive 
from the investment  in the future and Id expect  him to agree to that. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Quilter will need to pay any costs associated with drawing up the undertaking.
 
5.Pay Mr M £600 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I think the failure to provide suitable  advice and the resultant loss of a significant  sum from 
his pension fund has caused Mr M considerable unnecessary  trouble  and upset and that he 
should be compensated for this. The impact  of this situation, and therefore the amount to 
award, is difficult to assess.  But in the circumstances of this case,  I think  a substantial  award  
of £600 is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN798476811My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr M accepts my decision,  Quilter  Wealth Ltd must pay him compensation calculated 
using the method set out above. It should  provide Mr M with details of its calculations  in a 
clear and understandable  format.
If Quilter  doesnt settle this complaint  within 28 days of the date of this decision, it should  
also add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year to any compensation amount from the 
date of my decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. 
If Quilter  deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been  taken. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  so he can reclaim any overpaid tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7984768