K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about three monthly premium payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policies. 
Mr and Mrs D say Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold all three. 
background
Mr and Mrs D applied for a CBS mortgage  in 2001   at which point they were  sold the first of 
the three policies theyve  complained about. It was then in 2003 and 2008, when they 
applied for further  borrowing and  according to CBS  wanted to qualify for three  months 
free cover, that the second and third policies were sold to them. 
CBS says that all of the policies, which had different policy numbers, covered Mr and Mrs D 
against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. But their monthly costs varied as 
did the monthly benefit amount. So heres  a summary of what each policy  cost,  what  the 
benefit amount  was and who  between Mr and Mrs D  got what proportion of the monthly 
benefit in the event  of a successful claim.
year of 
salemonthly
costmonthly  
benefitwho got what proportion of the monthly benefit in the 
event  of a successful  claim
2001 £25.47 £490 Mr D  60%,  Mrs D  40%
2003 £31.19 £600 Mr D  60%,  Mrs D  40%
2008 £62.37 £1,200 Mr D  67%,  Mrs D  33%
CBS rejected Mr and Mrs Ds complaint in the main.  But it did offer them  a partial  refund of 
the premiums they paid towards the policy sold in 2001 as CBS thought  there were doubts 
over Mrs Ds eligibility for it. CBS also offered  to pay back some of the commission  it got 
from the policies  Mr and Mrs D bought. 
Unhappy with CBSs  answer to the complaint, including its offers, Mr and Mrs D referred the 
matter to us. Two of our adjudicators looked at the complaint at different times  and both of 
them came to the view that the policies hadnt been mis-sold.
However, as Mr and Mrs D disagreed,  we werent able to resolve the complaint informally.  
So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policies werent mis-sold. I realise this might  be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs D. But I hope  theyll understand why Ive come to this decision.
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions (T&Cs) relevant to each policy, Im persuaded 
that both Mr and Mrs D were eligible for all three. Both of them were named borrowers, living  
in the UK, aged over 18 and under 65 and continuously employed for at least six months 
when each policy started.
Ref: DRN71425912As Ive said above,  CBS offered Mr and Mrs D a partial refund of the premiums they paid 
towards the policy sold in 2001 because CBS thought there  were  doubts over Mrs Ds 
eligibility for it. However, the T&Cs defined  the start date, on that particular occasion, as the 
date of completion. As Mrs D started working  for her employer at the time on 23 April 2001, 
and as the completion date (according to a handwritten  note on Mr and Mrs Ds PPI 
application form) was 29 November 2001,  she had been continuously employed for six 
months when it mattered.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were made to feel as though the PPI was part of the mortgage. 
Its not clear whether  this argument applies to only one policy  or all three. But CBS says that 
it was made  clear to Mr and Mrs D on each occasion that they didnt have to take PPI if they 
didnt want to. And Im persuaded that was probably  the case. 
Ive seen copies  of Mr and Mrs Ds re-mortgage application  form from 2001  and the 
application form for the further borrowing taken in 2003. In both of these  documents  there 
was a section  called  Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance. And in that section there 
were a number of options, two of which essentially involved  saying  yes or no to taking PPI. 
As there are ticks in the boxes next to the option  to take such cover in both documents,  and 
as Mr and Mrs D signed both documents to confirm their contents, Im persuaded that its 
more likely they agreed to take these policies knowing  they didnt have to as there  isnt any 
persuasive evidence  to suggest  otherwise. This is especially the case as they committed  to 
their decisions  by also signing  separate PPI paperwork in 2001 and 2003.
As for the policy  CBS sold in 2008, Im persuaded that CBS made it clear to Mr and Mrs D 
on that occasion too that PPI was optional. Im also satisfied that its likely they agreed to 
take the policy knowing that was the case.
I say this because  CBS stated in the offer of further borrowing that the money  wasnt 
contingent on Mr and Mrs D taking any form of insurance. Whats  more, Mr and Mrs D ticked 
and signed to say that they had arranged PPI when they filled in the application form for the 
further borrowing, when  they could have  ticked and signed to say they didnt require such  
cover. So I think they agreed to take the policy knowing they had a choice when doing so.
Mr and Mrs D have also said that they felt like they had no choice but to take PPI. Again, its 
not clear whether this argument applies to only one policy or all of them.  But Ive looked  at all 
three sales. Pressure is a subjective area.  So, while I accept that its possible CBS made 
them feel as if they had to take one or more of the policies  notwithstanding the choice before 
them on each occasion, its also possible  that they were  simply encouraged to reflect on 
whether they were  able to maintain their mortgage repayments if something  went  wrong  
and, in turn, protect their home. 
It isnt possible to know what actually  happened during the course of each sale. But it is 
possible to weigh up whats  likely to have happened given the information available. And 
while I dont doubt  the honesty  of Mr and Mrs Ds recollections, they havent described   in 
detail  what was said and/or done to make  them  feel pressured. Thats not unusual  or 
unreasonable given how long ago the events in question took place. But it does play its part 
when weighing  things  up. As a result, Im not persuaded  I can reasonably conclude they 
were pressured all that time ago on recollection  alone when  there isnt any persuasive 
evidence to suggest thats what happened.
Ref: DRN71425913Mr and Mrs D say that CBS recommended all three policies while CBS says that it only 
recommended the policy  sold in 2008. So, to keep things simple, Ill consider the sale of the 
policy in 2008  separately to those  sold in 2001 and 2003.
2001 and 2003
Having looked  at the paperwork  from each  sale, its apparent that CBS did use the words  
The Society strongly recommends that you take out an insurance (Mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance) policy to protect your mortgage payments [] in the application forms 
Mr and Mrs D completed.  But there  was nothing personal about the language CBS used  
such that it cant, in my view, be argued  it was making a recommendation that was specific  
to Mr and Mrs D. And theres nothing persuasive  in the available paperwork to suggest  that 
CBS got to know Mr and Ds needs and circumstances  in an effort to make  a suitable 
recommendation in light of them   which is what it had to do if it wanted to recommend PPI. 
So Im not persuaded that CBS had to do more than give Mr and Mrs D the information they 
needed to decide for themselves whether  taking  the policies on those occasions was the 
right decision  for them.
Looking at the paperwork from each sale, Im satisfied that the monthly benefit of both 
policies was made clear  to Mr and Mrs D as it was recorded on the separate PPI application 
forms that they signed. I dont know whether the monthly cost of each policy was shared at 
the same  time on each  occasion. But the monthly cost was recorded on each of their 
mortgage offers under  the heading  Mortgage  Payment  Protection. So Mr and Mrs D were 
told what the monthly cost of each policy was before they completed their mortgage  
applications each  time.
I know Mr and Mrs D say that money  was tight because they were making maintenance 
payments every month.  But as Im not persuaded CBS was responsible for making sure the 
policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs D, it was for them to decide  on each occasion whether 
taking PPI was the right decision  to make knowing what their circumstances were  and what  
the monthly cost of the policies was going  to be.
However, it is possible that some of the information CBS gave  Mr and Mrs D about the 
policies wasnt as clear  as it should have  been. But they were  continuing  and adding  to a 
reasonably long-term  and significant financial commitment secured against their home.  Their  
mortgage repayments were important repayments to maintain had they found themselves 
out of or unable  to work. So the policies did provide important protection. And as it doesnt  
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover,  I think they 
would have found the policies useful had something  gone wrong.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have made  different decisions  in 2001 or 
2003 and not taken  PPI had they been given clearer information.
2008
CBS says it recommended  the policy in 2008. And its clear from the paperwork that it did. This 
means CBS had to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D in light of their needs 
and circumstances.  And having looked at those, I think  it was suitable for them  overall.
Ref: DRN71425914It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs D were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover. And, as they had limited sick pay and didnt have any other significant means of their 
own to keep up with their repayments  if something  went wrong, it looks  like they had a need  
for the policy. After  all, they were  adding to a significant financial commitment secured 
against their home. Their  repayments continued  to be important  repayments  to maintain had 
they found themselves out of or unable to work.  So this policy also provided  them  with 
important protection.  
I have thought about the maintenance payments that Mr and Mrs D say made  their financial 
circumstances difficult. But, according  to the application form for the further borrowing, they 
told CBS that this commitment and other  financial commitments would be cleared when they 
took the additional money. And as it looks like Mr and Mrs D chose to repay the further  
borrowing over only five years despite its relative  size, Im not persuaded the policy was an 
unsuitable recommendation to make on grounds of affordability.
Mr and Mrs D have also questioned the sale of the policy in 2008 because  the monthly benefit 
was higher than their overall monthly mortgage  repayment. So Ive thought  about this carefully.  
The relevant  T&Cs say that Mr and Mrs D, as joint borrowers and policyholders, could each 
insure up to 100% of the monthly benefit   which, amongst other  things, was defined as the 
monthly mortgage repayment. And this is what appears to have happened. So it may be 
helpful to explain  that the monthly benefit theyve referred to was higher  than their mortgage 
repayment because  theyve referred  to their combined cover. 
Mr and Mrs Ds overall  monthly mortgage repayment in 2008  was roughly £775. And as joint 
borrowers, they were  both responsible  for meeting that commitment. But, in light of what 
theyve said about  their sick pay and savings, they were at risk of facing a shortfall in quite a 
short period  of time if something went wrong.  And with that being  the case, Im not 
persuaded it was unsuitable to set their combined  cover at a level that, when split between 
them, would have  helped  them to maintain  the mortgage repayments were either of them 
suddenly out of or unable to work. 
However, as well as making  sure that the policy sold in 2008 was right for Mr and Mrs D, 
CBS also had to give them  clear information. So thats what Ive looked at next.
It is possible the information given to Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the same  reasons  I think the policy  was suitable  overall,  Im not 
persuaded better information about the policy would have led them  to make a different 
decision and not take the cover as it looks like it would have been  useful.
conclusion
Overall, having considered everything  both parties have said and provided  throughout this 
complaint, Im not persuaded any of the policies were mis-sold.  And that means CBS doesnt 
have to pay back the entire cost of them.
But CBS has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because it 
says it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premiums  
at times) - which it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. As CBS didnt tell them, that 
was unfair.  So to put that right, it has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums. And in light of what Ive said above,  
I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN71425915my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policies were  mis-sold in 2001, 2003  or 2008. 
So Coventry Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  the entire cost of them.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums   which is what it has offered 
to do. So, if it hasnt already paid this particular offer to Mr and Mrs D, it can do so now that 
Ive issued my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142591