K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a loan in 1998.  
background
Mr W borrowed £500 from Nationwide to repay his overdraft. At the same  time, he was sold 
a single premium PPI policy. Mr W borrowed  an extra £33.68  to pay for the PPI and he had 
to pay £2.85 interest  over the term of the loan for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  Nationwide  had 
told Mr W that he wouldnt be able to claim on the policy for a pre-existing medical condition. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr W would have  taken the policy  out if hed known about the 
exclusions because he had two medical conditions at the time PPI was sold. 
Nationwide didnt agree  with that view. It pointed out that Mr W wasnt diagnosed  with those 
conditions until after the policy started. It didnt think that those conditions would have 
affected Mr Ws decision to take the PPI cover out. 
As the parties dont agree with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive upheld Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr W told us that he couldnt remember how PPI was sold to him. Nationwide  said the cover 
was taken out in one of its branches. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest Nationwide  is wrong  
on that point. So I cant know  what was said during that meeting. To help me decide  whats  
likely to have happened, as Mr W doesnt remember, Ive looked at the paperwork thats 
available from the time.  Nationwide has provided  me with a copy  of the loan application form 
and the credit agreement. 
The parties agree that Nationwide didnt advise Mr W to buy this PPI policy. But it still had to 
give Mr W enough information about the cover  so he could decide for himself  whether it was 
a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear  and not misleading. 
Mr W told us that he had two pre-existing medical  conditions. The first was diagnosed in 
2000 and the second diagnosed in 2010. With regard to the second diagnosis,  Mr W told us 
that although he was diagnosed in 2010, he had shown  symptoms  of that condition for a 
number of years prior to diagnosis. I can see from that second  diagnosis that this was a 
condition that Mr W could  have lived with for a number  of years before he sought help from a 
medical practitioner. It appears that this was an enduring condition that was likely to recur. 
The PPI policy set out a number of exclusions with regard to pre-existing medical conditions. 
In particular, it says that Mr W would not be able to claim for:
Ref: DRN71180442Any physical or mental condition or disease which you knew  of, or should reasonably 
have known of on the start of your loan and which occurs again within 12 months of 
the start of the loan  
So what  that means in practice is that even  without a formal  diagnosis, if Mr W had to take 
time off work because  of his medical  condition during the term of his loan,  he wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim on his PPI policy. Nationwide argues that the insurer  would not 
have declined a claim for a condition that was not diagnosed until 11 years later. 
Nationwides argument is somewhat unclear on this point  the issue in question is whether 
Mr W was symptomatic  at the start date of the claim.  Mr Ws loan was for 12 months.  It is 
unlikely that the insurer would have  had the benefit  of 11 years  hindsight to determine the 
extent of Mr Ws medical condition. On the face of it, he was caught by the exclusion. 
Nationwide told us that as it didnt recommend PPI to Mr W and that it was his responsibility 
to check the cover was right for him. But even though Mr W wasnt  advised, Nationwide  still 
had to tell him about significant  exclusions and limitations. Looking at Nationwides  loan 
application and PPI leaflet, I can see the exclusion about medical conditions is set out 
towards the end of the document. It follows that I think it is unlikely that the person selling 
PPI in branch  would have given prominence to that exclusion. Im not persuaded that 
Nationwide would have  made the exclusions clear to Mr W. 
Taking account of the nature of Mr Ws medical  condition and its enduring  nature, I dont 
think hed have thought the policy was good value  for him if hed known he couldnt  make a 
claim because  of it. And I dont think hed have taken this policy  out. Nationwide  will have to 
take action to put that right. 
Although I have upheld Mr Ws complaint, the amount of redress I have directed below will 
obviously reflect his total premium of £36.53.
putting things right 
Mr W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been  and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr W needs to get back the extra he has 
paid. 
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr W  the difference between what he paid each month  on the 
loan and what he would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid each  month from when he 
paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
Ref: DRN71180443my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Nationwide Building Society to comply  with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118044