K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly recorded a default on her credit reference 
file.
background
Mrs P took out a credit card in May 2009. She missed payments and incurred charges and 
late payment fees on 57 occasions before Lloyds registered a default on her credit  reference 
file in January  2015. 
Over the years Lloyds  spoke to Mrs P several times about her financial difficulties and 
suggested options that might help including a repayment plan and speaking to a debt 
management charity. The bank explained  that Mrs P would continue to incur charges if she 
didnt make minimum payments by the due date,  that her credit  reference file would be 
affected and that ultimately her account might be defaulted. Mrs P declined to pursue the 
options offered.
In December 2014 Lloyds spoke to Mrs P again about the implications of a default,  and 
defaulted her account in January 2015. 
In June 2018 Lloyds reviewed charges applied to a number of accounts, including Mrs Ps. It 
refunded charges applied between November 2012  and January 2015, totalling some  
£1,100. It did so essentially because it believed that as it knew  in November 2012  that Mrs P 
was in financial difficulty it should  have suspended further charges from that point.
Mrs P complains that Lloyds should  also now remove the default from her credit  file. She 
argues that but for the charges, which worsened  her financial situation considerably,  she 
would have been much  more likely to maintain her repayments. 
Our adjudicator said that she thought Lloyds had acted positively and sympathetically in 
trying to help Mrs P, and in refunding some charges both whilst the account  was operational 
and some years later. She said the charges had been applied  in line with the account terms 
and conditions and as such couldnt  be judged to be unfair. However the adjudicator did not 
agree that it was the charges that led to the account  being defaulted. She said Mrs P made  a 
repayment in March 2014, but no more up until the default in January 2015.  She had 
breached the account terms and conditions, and as such  the default  had been fairly 
recorded. 
Mrs P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P failed to maintain  the minimum repayments on her credit card over a prolonged 
period. She was plainly  in financial difficulty and banks are required to act positively and 
sympathetically in such  circumstances. Lloyds did so here by contacting Mrs P a number of 
times to discuss her situation  and to suggest ways she might better manage her finances. 
Ref: DRN74743742Banks are not required to refund  charges,  although Lloyds has done so here. They  are also 
not required to suspend charges unless a repayment plan is agreed,  which  Mrs P didnt do. 
Overall I consider that Lloyds did what it reasonably could  to help Mrs P and I would not 
criticise it for not having  done more.
A credit reference file should be an accurate reflection of how an individual has managed a 
particular account.  Late and missed payments would be routinely recorded as would a 
default. In this case, and following efforts to assist Mrs P over many months, Lloyds 
defaulted her account. Mrs P says that default  should be removed as she believes it to be 
the consequence of the charges  that were subsequently  refunded. 
But Im afraid that I disagree with Mrs P on this point. Mrs P knew  for a number of years that 
she was in breach  of her account  terms and conditions,  but did not engage  with the bank on 
how best to manage  that situation. She knew she was incurring charges and Lloyds had told 
her the account  was in danger  of being defaulted.  It was in the light of Mrs Ps consistent 
failure to meet her contractual obligations to make monthly payments alongside  her refusal 
to work with the bank  or a debt management charity  to sort her finances out that Lloyds 
took the decision to record a default on Mrs Ps file. Under the circumstances this was a 
reasonable decision and one Lloyds  was entitled  to take.
Im afraid I cannot reasonably therefore  uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7474374