K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss D took out a credit card during a meeting in a branch of Halifax around July 2004. At 
the same  time she was sold a PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D disagrees with our adjudicators  
view. 
Miss Ds main complaint  is that she wouldve declined PPI with this credit card  as she says 
she also did when making a different credit application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint.
Ive seen the application form Miss D filled in with the help of a branch advisor. I dont know  
what was discussed.  But I think the way the application form is set out makes it clear  that it 
was up to Miss D to say if she wanted  to take out PPI alongside her credit card. Theres  a 
pre-printed cross in the box to have PPI added to the account. I think  this probably reflects 
what Miss D told the advisor  she wanted and Miss D has signed  the completed  application.  
So I find that Halifax made Miss D aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss D, and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based  on the information Ive got about  her circumstances at the time. 
The policy wouldve paid Miss D a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance  on the 
card for up to 12 months  per claim if she couldnt  work through accident  or sickness.  Miss D 
wasnt sure what  (if any) her sick pay entitlement wouldve been. But I think its unlikely that 
Miss D wouldve had full sick pay for as long as 12 months as this would be quite unusual. 
So I think its likely that the policy provided  her with a monthly  benefit for longer than shed 
have been able to rely on getting  sick pay from her employer. 
And in addition to this, the policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months if she became  
unexpectedly unemployed. 
So I think that PPI was suitable for Miss D.
Ref: DRN72126012Its possible some information Halifax gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those wouldve applied  to Miss D. So, I dont think having more information about  what  
wasnt covered under  the policy wouldve put her off taking it out.
As far as I can see, Miss D chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. Its completely  understandable that shes forgotten  this now, after so long. And 
despite what Miss D says in response  to our adjudicators view this doesnt  affect  my 
decision.
Overall, I think its unlikely  Miss D wouldve made  a different decision if better  information  
had been provided. On balance, given the affordable  benefits  it gave her, I think  its likely 
she still wouldve taken out the policy.
This means  it doesnt look as if Miss D has lost out as a result  of anything Halifax mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7212601