K820x#14complaint
Mr B says CIS General Insurance Limited  unfairly  cancelled his young driver  motor 
insurance policy on the basis of excessive speeding  on his part.
 
background
The policy Mr B had with CIS meant that a telematics smartbox was fitted  to his car to 
monitor his driving behaviour. The premium  charged  could go up or down, depending  on 
how Mr B drove. In its terms  of business, CIS set out the four key indicators that would be 
monitored by the smartbox, the first of which was the speed the car was driven at. 
Mr Bs policy  started in March 2017. In August 2017  CIS wrote to Mr B with a driving alert.  It 
said it had emailed him several times  to tell him his car had exceeded the speed  limit. It said 
if he continued to drive this way his policy would be cancelled. When Mr B called CIS in 
September 2017 about a separate matter,  the advisor referred  to the speeding again. 
CIS said that normally at least two driving alerts would be issued before cancellation.  But it 
also said that if a vehicle exceeded the speed limit by a significant  margin  it could be 
cancelled with just nine days notice. In November  2017 Mr B got a letter  from CIS telling him 
the policy would be cancelled in nine days. It said the smartbox  had recorded his car being 
driven at 111 miles per hour in a 70 mile per hour zone.
Mr B later told CIS he didnt think hed driven  that fast. He said he wasnt sure his car could 
reach the speed CIS quoted. But CIS said the data had been  checked twice by the company 
that owns the smartbox and provides the data.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Bs complaint. She noted that Mr B believed he hadnt 
driven as fast as CIS claimed.  But she said there was no reason to think the data was 
wrong, and she didnt think CIS should be asked to remove the cancellation. Mr B asked  for 
a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Although Mr B says he doesnt think his car could have been  driven  at 111 miles per hour, 
he hasnt given us any evidence to support that statement. 
I dont think theres any basis for thinking  the data on which  CIS based  its decision to cancel 
the policy was wrong.  Its provided evidence of the speeds it has quoted.  And it has shown 
that the company that provided the data doubled-checked it, at CISs  request. The data 
company checked  all the records for Mr B. There was more than one significant episode of 
speeding. One record couldnt  be validated,  due to insufficient data, and the data company 
made that clear to CIS. But the record CIS relied on was fully validated.  
CIS provided  its terms of business to Mr B as part of its welcome pack. Under the section 
that deals with the smartbox, there are clear details  about how speeding  affects the policy  
and the premium. A box in that section  sets out the speeds at which the policy will be 
cancelled without CIS having to provide two or more  alerts. It says where the speed  limit is 
Ref: DRN79649332between 61 and 70 miles an hour, driving at 110 miles  per hour or more triggers the policys 
cancellation after nine days. 
In my opinion, Mr B hasnt  shown  that CIS acted unreasonably in cancelling  the policy.  As I 
dont think it did anything  wrong, I cant uphold Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7964933