K821x#15complaint
Mr D acquired  a used car by means  of a conditional sale agreement, made with Moneybarn  
No. 1 Limited in late November 2017.  He complains  that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply in early December 2017. He wants to reject  the car.
background
Mr Ds car was 99 months old, and had travelled  a little under 106,000  miles,  at the point of 
supply. This means  that it had travelled above  average car annual  mileages  over a quite 
long period.
Mr D provided  to us evidence to show that he reported faults to the supplying  dealership  
nine days after taking  delivery, and again  35 days after taking delivery. He and the dealer 
were unable to agree  a settlement of his complaint, which he then referred on to Moneybarn 
in late February 2018. 
Moneybarn and the supplying dealership agreed  that Mr Ds car should be independently  
inspected by a suitably accredited  organisation.  This took place in mid April 2018, when the 
car had travelled about 2,500  further  miles.  
The independent inspector reported  that the car was exhibiting a number of problems  most 
of which, in his opinion, would also have been  present at the point of supply. But the 
inspector added:
These problems were not sufficient to prevent the car being road legal and fit for 
purpose, in his opinion, at the date of inspection and at the point of supply 
Mr Ds car had passed an MOT test immediately before he acquired it, which 
supported his view that it was road legal and fit for purpose at that time
The problems he had identified  did require  attention, but were the result of normal  
wear and tear, consistent with the cars  age and mileage
Moneybarn concluded  that the inspection report showed Mr Ds car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. And so it was unable to uphold his complaint, which  he then 
referred to us in early  October 2018.
Mr D drew our attention to a pre-delivery inspection undertaken by the supplying dealership. 
This followed a standard checklist, approved by a well-known motoring organisation. A copy  
the completed checklist was also provided  to us, which indicated that Mr Ds car had met its 
requirements. 
Mr D provided  evidence  to us indicating that Mr Ds car had been marketed as meeting the 
requirements of this inspection. But he was unable  to provide to us any other evidence about 
how the car was advertised.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She accepted  the 
independent inspectors view that the problems he had identified in Mr Ds car were  the 
direct result of age-related in-service deterioration  except for the problem relating to the 
cars security system.  
Ref: DRN70096182Our investigator said the functioning of this system  would not have been checked in the cars 
December 2017  MOT  test. And the problem with this system was reported shortly after 
delivery by Mr D to the supplying dealership.  In these circumstances, she felt it was more  
likely than not that the problem had been  present or developing at the point  of supply.
In our investigators view,  this system  should be very durable, and should not be exhibiting  a 
fault in a vehicle with the age and mileage  of Mr Ds car. In that respect, this problem was 
different from the other problems exhibited by Mr Ds car, which all related to parts of a 
vehicle where periodic servicing would be expected. Our investigator  recommended that 
Moneybarn should  pay for the repair of this system.  
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said:
Even when acquiring an older car, a certain  standard is to be expected
The product  he received  was not what he signed  up for
The car should not have been supplied until its many faults (identified by the 
independent inspector) had been  repaired
Moneybarn also disagreed with investigator. It said the independent  inspectors view should 
be respected in full  the security system  problem  did not cause the car to be unfit for 
purpose, and so it should not be held responsible for any repair costs. 
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Moneybarn has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable 
person would have regarded  the goods  as satisfactory,  taking  into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled.  But there are limits to 
Moneybarns responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Although Mr Ds car was more than eight years old when he acquired it, I think a reasonable 
person would expect  it to be:
Not only road legal
But also as advertised, and with all functions  not subject to periodic  servicing in full 
working order
Mr D reported a number  of faults  to the supplying dealership  shortly  after taking delivery. An 
independent inspection of his car was subsequently  undertaken, the results  of which  were:
The car was confirmed as exhibiting problems,  which it was more likely than not (in 
the inspectors  view) would have been present or developing at the point of supply
These problems were not sufficient (in the inspectors view) to prevent the car being 
road legal  and fit for purpose, both at the date of inspection and at the point of supply
Ref: DRN70096183In addition:
The car passed an MOT test, with no advisory notices, shortly before delivery
It met the requirements of a pre-delivery  inspection checklist,  and was marketed as 
having done so
There are possible inconsistencies  between these pieces of evidence.  The independent 
inspector identified problems with the cars: 
Engine and power transmission system
External bodywork
Interior safety and security systems
Wheels/tyres and braking system
Exhaust system
It is apparently inconsistent that none of these  problems, all of which  should have been  
picked up in the pre-delivery inspection, and some of which might have caused MOT 
advisory notices, were identified at or before the point  of supply. Although  it can be argued  in 
response that faults exhibited later could have  been  developing, but not yet present,  earlier. 
Bearing in mind the above possibly inconsistent evidence, I think the most reliable 
information is likely to come from the independent  inspection. But, on balance, I am unable 
to find that problems identified by this inspection were present (as opposed  to developing) at 
the point of supply. (This  is even though Mr D provided evidence  to us of his reporting to the 
dealer soon afterwards  that these problems were  present.)
The independent inspector said the problems identified in Mr Ds car were the direct result  of 
age-related in-service deterioration. And there is no evidence that his car was advertised as 
being in above average condition. In these circumstances, I think a reasonable person would 
not regard the car as being of unsatisfactory quality.  
In our investigators view,  all except one of the cars problems are age and mileage  related. 
The exception is the cars security  system,  which should be much more durable,  and so the 
problem identified with this system should  not be considered  normal wear and tear. 
I agree  with our investigators view  I think that a reasonable person would regard 
satisfactory quality, in these circumstances,  as including  a security system in full working 
order. And, on balance,  I find that the problem with this system was developing at the point 
of supply.
All of which means  that I have come  to the same  conclusion  as our investigator, for similar 
reasons:
Repairing the security  system problem (a central  locking fault) falls within 
Moneybarns responsibilities 
But work on the other problems identified does not fall within these  responsibilities
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to meet  the repair cost of 
Mr Ds cars  central locking system. And Mr D should be invited to choose whether this 
repair is undertaken either by the supplying  dealership, or by a manufacturer approved  main  
dealer. 
Ref: DRN70096184Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7009618