K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain through their complaints management company (CMC) that they 
got unsuitable advice from Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G) including 
to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they remortgaged in 2008.
background 
Mr and Mrs C remortgaged  on the recommendation of an appointed representative of L&G in 
2008. At that time,  they had an existing repayment  mortgage of £66,250 on which  an ERC 
was payable if the mortgage redeemed  before  August  2008.  The interest rate on the 
mortgage was 6.59% and the contractual monthly  payments were £492.00.  Mr  and Mrs C 
also had two other loans and six credit  cards with total balances of £22,585.00  outstanding, 
requiring monthly payments of £553.00. The L&G adviser produced  a mortgage record  of 
suitability (MRoS) but was unable to source the recommended  mortgage  because of a 
reduction in the assumed property value.  
The amended recommendation was to continue to pay the loans separately from the 
mortgage but to consolidate the credit  cards into the mortgage and pay an ERC. The new 
mortgage had an initial interest rate of 9.15% pa. This meant that Mr and Mrs C were  to 
make a new contractual monthly payment of £748.30 and continue  to pay £341.00 towards  
the loans. Mr and Mrs C would have had to pay an ERC of £3,900.00  to their existing lender 
if they remortgage before August 2008.  The adviser  recommended that they remortgage 
immediately which they did in February 2008 thus incurring an ERC, the cost of which  was 
added to the mortgage. 
L&G believed that the advisers recommendation was suitable. But there was also a wills 
package that the adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs C fund through  the mortgage. L&G 
thought that this was unsuitable advice and in its letter of 22 November 2018,  it offered to 
pay Mr and Mrs C for the interest  they paid on this as part of the mortgage together with 
£150 for inconvenience. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator noted that the recommendation allowed Mr and Mrs C to obtain a fixed rate 
scheme with a lender who would allow them to re-mortgage given their poor credit history.  
But he said that the result  overall of the recommendation was to increase Mr and Mrs Cs 
monthly outgoings and given that Mr and Mrs C wanted to reduce these, he felt that the 
advice to consolidate the debt was unsuitable as was the advice to pay the ERC. Our 
adjudicator recommended  the following redress that L&G should:
Calculate the amount  Mr and Mrs C has paid to service the consolidated debt each 
month as part of their mortgage payments
Calculate the amount  of the consolidated debt still outstanding on their mortgage 
balance
Calculate the amount  it would have  cost to pay off the debts had they not been 
consolidated, assuming  that the payment  amounts and interest  rates shown in the 
client review stayed  the same
Add together the first two figures and deduct the third and pay the result as a lump 
sum to Mr and Mrs C
Calculate the ERC and the interest  paid on it for the life of the mortgage and pay this 
as a lump sum to Mr and Mrs C
Ref: DRN71431382Pay the previous offer outlined for the complaint  about the will service.
L&G disagreed saying in summary  that the main reason for the remortgage  was that Mr and 
Mrs C were missing  mortgage payments in the previous year and so putting  their house at 
risk if they continued with their outgoings. L&G says that Mr and Mrs C werent  in a healthy 
financial situation when  they met the adviser  and didnt have a disposable  income of 
£186.42 per month as suggested in the client review.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I summarise my findings as follows.  I said 
that I needed to address three areas
Firstly, the advice  to remortgage,
Secondly the advice  to consolidate the debts
Thirdly the advice  as to when to remortgage.  
I noted that Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation  wasnt good before they took out this new 
mortgage. The client review recorded that they were arrears on their mortgage and arrears 
on their unsecured debts  and had CCJs.  On the other hand, the client review  suggested 
that they had a healthy surplus  each month.  But I said I couldnt  totally rely on the 
expenditure account in the client review  as it gave no indication of where  Mr and Mrs Cs 
severe indebtedness came from. 
I recorded that since our adjudicator issued his initial  view L&G had supplied a mortgage 
statement from Mr and Mrs Cs previous  lender for 2007 which  showed  that the arrears at 
January 2008  were  £1,523.18. So, I said that at that stage  the account  was three to four 
months in arrears. My view was that Mr and Mrs C were clearly in a very difficult situation 
and wanted a new lender  and a fixed rate scheme with a chance for a fresh  start. I noted  
that L&G seemed  to have sourced the cheapest available  product  given  Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit history.  So, I believed that given the arrears, if Mr and Mrs C hadnt remortgaged it 
was unlikely that they would still have been able to remain  in their house  where  they still are 
ten years  later.  So, I said that that recommendation was suitable.
The second  issue  I had to deal with was whether  the advice to consolidate the debt was 
suitable. I noted that because of an issue with the property valuation, not all of the debt could 
be consolidated, and Mr and Mrs C continued  to pay the loans. Only the credit card debt, 
including two store cards  with small balances, was consolidated which was £6,085.00. I said 
that according to the MRoS, consolidation of this debt would cost £15,151.00  over the 
lifetime of the mortgage. I noted that the problem with this partial debt consolidation was that 
it meant that Mr and Mrs C paid more - £1,089.30  per month - in total towards  their debts 
after their mortgage  than they did before which was £1045.00. So, I said that the benefit of 
debt consolidation, which was normally intended  to reduce the monthly payments, was in 
fact lost but Mr and Mrs C still had the disadvantage  of having to pay more over a longer 
period. So, I said that I didnt consider  that the advice to consolidate  the debts was suitable.  I 
said that I intended providing  redress to Mr and Mrs C for that and the redress  should  also 
include L&G repaying  Mr and Mrs C the cost of the Brokers Fee referable to the debt 
consolidation as a proportion of the overall fee.     
 
The other issue I dealt  with was the advice to remortgage immediately rather  than waiting 
until August when Mr and Mrs C could have avoided paying the ERC to their existing lender. 
Ref: DRN71431383I noted that my view was different than our adjudicator who may not have been given the full 
picture at that time he issued his view.  
I said that given  what the level of arrears  were, it wouldnt have been reasonable to advise 
Mr and Mrs C to delay re-mortgaging until August. By that stage the arrears may have 
increased, and it was a reasonable possibility that their existing lender may have issued 
legal action with the attendant costs. I believed that there was also the possibility that the 
proposed new lender  may have withdrawn  its product at that stage, either through  
commercial reasons or if Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation worsened, leaving Mr and Mrs C 
without a fallback  position. In the circumstances where their property was at risk, I believed 
that it was reasonable for L&G to recommend  that the remortgage be completed  at the 
earliest opportunity  although this meant that Mr and Mrs C would have to pay the ERC.  So, I 
didnt intend upholding that part of the complaint.
I also looked at the issue  of the wills package. I said that I didnt consider that the 
recommendation that Mr and Mrs C take a wills package was unreasonable, but I agreed 
with L&G that the cost shouldnt have been  added  to the mortgage. So, I also agreed that 
the interest should  be refunded, and Mr and Mrs C get compensation of £150 for their upset.
So, I said that for these  reasons I intended  to uphold this complaint in part, and I set out the 
proposed redress  in my provisional decision. I invited the CMC and L&G to make further 
submissions or provide  me with further  evidence which  I said I would consider before I came 
to a final decision. 
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that L&G says it has no comments to make  on my provisional decision.  The CMC says 
that it agrees  with our adjudicators initial view but, beyond that, made  no further comments  
on my provisional decision. Ive reviewed that complaint again but am of the view that my 
provisional decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. On that basis  I uphold this 
complaint in part namely that the advice to consolidate debt was unsuitable but that a 
remortgage was appropriate  advice as was the advice to pay an ERC. I also approve the 
redress set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited to:
Calculate the amount  Mr and Mrs C have paid to service the consolidated debt each 
month as part of their mortgage payments.
Calculate the amount  of the consolidated debt still outstanding on their mortgage 
balance.
Calculate the amount  it would have  cost to pay off the debts had they not been 
consolidated, assuming  that the payment  amounts, and interest  rates shown in the 
client review stayed  the same.
Add together the first two figures and deduct the third and pay the result as a lump 
sum to Mr and Mrs C.
Ref: DRN71431384Refund that part of the Brokers Fee referable to the amount of the debt consolidated 
as a proportion  of the overall loan together with the mortgage  interest  Mr and Mrs C 
have paid on it from time to time.
Pay the previous offer made in L&G s letter of 22 November 2018 in respect  of the 
complaint about the will service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 November  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7143138