K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that City of London  Markets Limited (COLM)  who were the investment 
managers of her self-invested personal  pension (SIPP), didnt provide her with information 
about her investments and invested her pension in high risk investments without her 
knowledge. Miss H also says her signature on some of the documentation has been forged.
background
Miss H transferred several  pensions into a SIPP in 2017. Miss H says a third party-who 
turned out not to be a financial adviser- recommended her to transfer  her pensions into a 
SIPP but didnt  give her any information about what pension amounts had been transferred.
She was then told to call COLM who were the investment managers for her SIPP.  Miss H 
says COLM didnt give her any explanation about what  she was invested in and were  vague  
about the value of her account. She says she was never  told her investments included  
Contracts For Difference.  Only a few months  after her transfer the value of her pension  had 
halved.
Miss H complained to COLM in 2018.  She asked  them to return  all the money  they had 
invested for her plus any monies that could have been earned  if the investments had been 
managed properly. She also requested  compensation for distress  and inconvenience. She 
raised concerns  that some of the documents she had since received from the SIPP 
administrators were unknown to her and she said her signature had been forged.
COLM said they had looked into the activities of Miss Hs portfolio manager and offered to 
settle the complaint. They offered to pay for the losses Miss H suffered since  her money had 
been invested within the SIPP. They also calculated how her investments would have 
performed if they had been invested in the FTSE 100. 
Miss H declined the offer as COLM had not offered  to refund any charges or pay any 
compensation for the distress  she suffered.  She was also unhappy that COLM hadnt 
addressed her allegation of forged signatures. 
Miss H brought  the complaint to this service  in early 2019. COLM told us their offer was still 
available and brought it up to date. The financial loss was calculated as £45,341.15. COLM 
offered to pay the compensation  in 18 instalments as they were experiencing cash flow 
issues but offered  additional interest of £3,298.92  (calculated at 9% p.a. compounded 
monthly).
Miss H declined the offer again. One of our adjudicators considered  Miss Hs complaint. He 
found that as COLM had offered to put Miss H back in the position she would have been in if 
they hadnt invested her money  as they did, he only looked at whether the offer made was 
fair in the circumstances. He didnt consider whether the investments should  have been 
made and he explained  that he also wouldnt be looking at whether the signatures  were 
forged as this would be a matter of fraud and should be discussed with the relevant 
authorities. 
The adjudicator thought  the settlement amount was fair, however he thought  it should  be 
paid to Miss Hs SIPP in one lump  sum and not in instalments  as this would leave Miss H 
unable to make decisions  in relation to her retirement planning. He also thought  COLM  
should pay Miss H £300 additional compensation for any trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN79426262COLM said they couldnt pay everything  in one lump sum. They offered to reduce the 
payment period to 12 months  and agreed to pay Miss H £300 compensation as suggested 
by the adjudicator. If Miss H couldnt accept  this, the complaint should be referred  to an 
ombudsman.
Miss H would have preferred for everything to be paid to her in a lump  sum. However, she 
reluctantly agreed  to accept the offer to be paid in 12 instalments  to draw matters  to a close.
Miss H called this service in September 2019  to inform us that payments had stopped. She 
says she received two instalment payments from COLM in July and August 2019  totalling 
£7,930.30 as well as the £300 compensation payment for distress  and inconvenience.  Since 
then no further  payments  were made. COLM  told us in October  2019  they were  in the latter  
stages of a recapitalisation process  and would resume  payments once this had been done. 
However, they werent able to give a timeframe  of when this would happen. As no further  
payments had been made by January 2020,  Miss H asked us to reopen her complaint and 
refer it for an ombudsmans decision.
Both her and COLM  were offered the opportunity  to provide further comments. Miss H sent 
us the documents that she says show her forged signature together  with a copy  of her 
driving licence  for comparison. She says she wants the remainder of her compensation to be 
paid as a lump sum and she says additional  compensation  for the delay should be 
considered.
COLM didnt  provide  further comments,  other  than they were in contact with Miss H about 
the recapitalisation and although  it was taking  longer  than expected,  things were 
progressing.
I previously issued a provisional  decision upholding Miss Hs complaint. I explained that I 
intended to ask COLM to pay Miss H compensation as a lump sum into her SIPP (if 
possible). I also awarded compensation of £200  for the distress  further  delays had caused.
I gave both parties another opportunity to comment on my findings and intended 
compensation.
COLM didnt  provide  any further comments. Miss H told us that she has since transferred 
her pension from a SIPP  to a personal  pension with Royal London.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any further comments on the merits  of the complaint I dont see any 
reasons to change  my decision. Ill repeat my findings below. As Miss Hs SIPP does  not 
exist anymore, the compensation (if paid into her pension) should be paid into her new 
personal pension  instead of the SIPP. Miss H should let COLM know  her new details  
directly. 
COLMs offer was designed to put Miss H back in the position  she would have been in if her 
investments hadnt  been made  in the manner they were but instead had been  invested in a 
more cautious  way. I think this approach is fair in the circumstances and not dissimilar to 
Ref: DRN79426263what this service would have recommended. So I agree with the adjudicator that the 
settlement amount of £45,341.15 is fair in the circumstances.
Miss H pragmatically accepted to receive  her compensation in 12 instalments, however 
COLM hasnt paid her now for six months,  so they have broken the terms of the offer.  I 
appreciate that COLM say they are in a recapitalisation  process  and will resume  payments. 
However, Miss H has been  waiting  for some  time now and so I understand that she would 
like a determination of a final decision.
As a service  we dont  tend to award compensation in instalments  as our decision should  
draw a close to a complaint and give certainty to the parties where possible. And so I agree 
with the adjudicators findings that all remaining compensation should be paid to Miss H as a 
lump sum.
I understand that Miss H strongly feels that her signature has been forged on some  
documents when  her pension was transferred. Our service isnt in a position to determine 
whether her signature  was forged or not. This is an allegation of fraud which  is a matter  for 
the police. And even  if an act of forgery was committed, it wouldnt affect the compensation 
payment in Miss Hs complaint as she is put back into the position she would  have been  in if 
the investments  hadnt been  actioned. And its not our role to punish  or fine businesses  as 
we are not the regulator.
The adjudicator recommended COLM to pay Miss H £300 for the trouble and upset she 
experienced which I think is fair. I can imagine it would have been  distressing for Miss H 
firstly not to know any details about how her pension was performing and then finding out 
that her retirement funds  had halved within a few months. So I agree compensation is 
warranted. However, I also have to take into account that COLM offered to put things right 
shortly after Miss H complained to them in 2018 which  I think was fair. And I dont think its 
reasonable to award a higher amount due to delays  in the complaints process. So up until 
the point where  Miss H accepted the settlement offer in June  2019  I think the compensation 
of £300 was fair.
Miss H has now experienced further  delays which should be compensated by further interest 
awards. Ill set this out in the putting  things right section below. However,  I also think  these 
latest delays in paying Miss Hs compensation would have caused her further worry and 
distress. So I think this warrants an additional compensation payment of £200.
putting things right
Miss H should have received £45,341.15 in July 2019. COLM offered to award annual 
interest of 9% compounded monthly to delayed payments, so I dont see any reason to 
diverge from this.
Miss H received a payment of £3,965.15  in July 2019. A further payment of £3.965.15 was 
made in August 2019. This leaves an outstanding balance  of £37,410.85.  COLM  also paid 
Miss H £300 for the distress their actions caused her.
COLM should:
A)Pay Miss H annual  interest* of 9% for one month on the August 2019  payment. 
B)Pay Miss H £37,410.85 as a lump sum and add annual interest* of 9% (compounded 
monthly) from July 2019 until the date of my final decision
Ref: DRN79426264C)Pay Miss H £200  compensation  for the distress COLMs delays in payment have 
caused her since August 2019
Pay compensation set out in A and B into Miss Hs personal pension plan to increase  its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.  The £200  
compensation for distress should be paid directly to Miss H without any deductions. 
If COLM is unable to pay the total amount of A and B into Miss H's pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Miss H's actual  or expected  marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. For example,  if Miss H is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Miss H would  have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
If Miss H accepts  this final decision, COLM should  pay Miss H within  4 weeks  of her 
acceptance. For any amounts outstanding after this time, COLM should add 8% simple  
interest* per year (in line with this services usual interest award) until the date of settlement.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If COLM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss H how much has been taken off. COLM should give Miss H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I request  City of London Markets Limited to 
pay the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7942626