K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire agreement financed  by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (Audi) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  
to reject it or have the vehicle replaced.
background 
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in March  2019. But he says he soon noticed there were 
issues with it starting  from cold. And that the vehicle rocked from side to side.  He says the 
dealer was unable to replicate the problem and suggested it was a characteristic of the 
engine. 
Audi told us that when  Mr A first complained in April 2019 the vehicle had been examined by 
the retailer. And no fault had been  found.  It said a check with the manufacturer  had indicated  
that a small amount of hunting was to be expected with any engine starting from cold. It 
said it had also had the vehicle examined  by an independent company Ill refer to as R. It 
said R had found  the vehicle to be operating  satisfactorily  and hadnt  been able to replicate 
the fault. Audi stated that although no fault had been identified it had offered Mr A a gesture  
of goodwill.  It said it was willing to waive the early termination fee of £9,657.36 and had 
offered Mr A £1,000 towards a replacement vehicle.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that in order  to 
uphold the complaint hed have to be satisfied the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. He said that the evidence provided  didnt show this. He noted Audi had offered a 
gesture of goodwill and he felt this was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome and said hed be left out of pocket as hed paid a deposit 
of over £2,200.  As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans  been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A feels  hes experienced  problems with this vehicle and that it hasnt met his 
expectations. And I can understand why hed be disappointed in these circumstances.
The hire agreement through which  Mr A obtained this vehicle is a regulated credit 
agreement. And this service can consider complaints relating to it. As Audi supplied the 
vehicle its responsible for it being of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  satisfactory quality is defined as being what  a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  all the relevant circumstances such as 
age, condition and mileage of the car.
As an independent resolution service we base  our decisions on the information we receive. 
And when  this is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - decisions are made on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN78762002Mr A describes the vehicle as rocking  or shuddering when started  from cold. And Im aware 
that hes described it as an intermittent  fault. Im sure he recognises that if a fault is 
intermittent - and assuming there  is a fault - it might  not be easy  to replicate. 
Two examinations of the vehicle - one by the retailer and one by an independent  examiner - 
havent shown  any abnormalities. Theres apparently been an indication from the 
manufacturers that at certain low temperatures the vehicle may experience  hunting  - which 
Ive taken to mean a variation in engine speed which might  cause some degree of vibration.  
But it described this as a characteristic of the vehicle - not a fault.
I also note that Mr A indicated, in November 2019, the vehicle had covered 10,000 miles 
since supply. This is above average mileage and from this Im reasonably able to infer that 
the vehicle is performing  to expected standards. The issue - I dont think any fault has been 
established - doesnt seem to be compromising the performance of the vehicle. As such it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to say it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. So Im 
not able to require Audi to terminate the agreement or replace the vehicle.
Notwithstanding that the alleged fault hadnt been  replicated by the inspections, Audi made  
an offer to Mr A to end the agreement.  I understand why Mr A hasnt to date accepted this. It 
would cause some  inconvenience  to him in that there would presumably be a delay in 
obtaining a substitute vehicle. And I know Mr A is concerned that it would also result in some 
financial loss. Hes stated he paid a deposit  of over £2,200 and that the return  of this wasnt 
part of the offer. 
As far as I can see Mr A hasnt paid a deposit - although I can understand why it may have  
appeared to him that he had done so. The agreement refers  to an advance  rental  payment of 
£2,272.32. Typically, an advance rental payment has the effect of reducing  regular monthly  
payments as the upfront  payment is usually  allocated  equally throughout the term of the 
agreement. I asked the investigator to enquire of Audi if it would also be prepared to refund the 
proportion of that payment that remained - if Mr A decided to accept its gesture of goodwill. 
But Audi said - that as it had offered to terminate the agreement early and waive the charge  as 
a gesture of goodwill,  along with the £1,000  - it wouldnt look to do anything  else
As Ive not been provided with information  which shows the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality when supplied  it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable for me to find that Audi had done  
anything wrong. Its made what I consider to be a generous offer to Mr A to try and resolve 
the complaint.  And I shant be formally requesting it do anything  else.
If Mr A wishes to reconsider  the offer Audi has made  he should  contact it directly. My 
decision, whether  accepted or not, brings  to an end the involvement of this service. And 
whilst I know it will come as disappointment  to Mr A, Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876200