K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mrs A says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the MPPI.
Mrs A was sold the MPPI  when she completed a transfer of equity in her property to her sole 
name.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs A  its clear 
that she feels very strongly  about her complaint.  Ill explain the reasons for my decision 
below.
Mrs A says that she visited her local branch of Nationwide multiple  times  to complete her 
application for a transfer of equity for her property.  She doesnt  remember the finer points of 
the conversations, but was assured that everything  discussed was the best option for her. 
She also says that many  of the forms she was asked  to sign were  filled in by Nationwide 
staff, and she just signed  them. She also says that she wouldnt have known about MPPI if 
Nationwide didnt tell her about  it. 
I have to weigh up Mrs As understandably limited recollections against the other  information  
thats available to decide whats  most likely to have happened.  Nationwide has provided  a 
copy of Mrs As transfer of equity  application  (ToE), and a separate MPPI application. On 
the ToE application the MPPI is presented as an optional product  and has been selected 
with a tick. Mrs A has signed  this application,  along with the separate  MPPI application. And 
while the detail  on these forms may have been completed by Nationwide,  Mrs A was 
entering in to an important  financial agreement  so I wouldve expected  her to make sure 
she read and understood what she was signing for.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Nationwide made  it clear  that Mrs A didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this as it was so long ago. And although  she may not have known  she could take 
MPPI without Nationwide telling her about it, I would expect a business to promote its 
products  but this isnt the same as saying that Mrs A had to take the MPPI.
Mrs A says that Nationwide provided  her with advice  to take the MPPI  but this isnt usual 
practice for Nationwide   it usually provided information about a product for a customer to 
decide if they thought  the product was right for them. It didnt give recommendations about 
the suitability of a product for an individuals circumstances.  And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that it did anything other than its usual practice when it sold the MPPI to Mrs A. But 
even if it had provided her with advice at the time,  I dont think it wouldve been  wrong  for it 
to say that the MPPI  was suitable for Mrs A, given what  I know  about her circumstances. 
On of Mrs As concerns is that her self-employed status meant that she had no structured 
working pattern,  and didnt need to work  a set amount of hours.  She says that she was paid 
Ref: DRN72105502a commission for sales, and that sometimes she had less work than others.  If she didnt 
make a sale, then she didnt get paid. She says she wouldve found it hard to prove she has 
become unemployed due to this. But its not unusual for someone to be paid in this way and 
I dont think that this wouldve meant that Mrs A worked  less than 16 hours a week on 
average as the policy required. And looking at the policy I cant see that it would be any 
more difficult for someone who was self-employed than an employed person to make a 
claim. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the MPPI - it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI  cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs A.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs A because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mrs A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premium  - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said, including what  shes  said about  having savings 
at the time she couldve used to make her repayments. But the MPPI couldve  protected  
these for other expenses. And as Ive said above,  I think Mrs A knew she had a choice in 
taking out the MPPI, so she wouldve done  so knowing what  other  provisions she had in 
place. So this point  doesnt change my decision,  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont 
think the MPPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs A.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72105503
Ref: DRN7210550