K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that SPF Private Clients Limiteds advisor wrongly  told them  that 
they needed to take out life insurance and critical illness  cover  to obtain the proposed 
mortgage (in 2008). As theyd previously had a mortgage application rejected, they accepted  
his view. Theyve recently discovered  that this was not true.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe there was sufficient  evidence  to safely conclude 
that the advisor had misled Mr and Mrs A about this issue, and noted that the mortgage  offer 
itself made  no mention  of life cover  being compulsory. But he did not believe the specific 
recommendation had been suitable.
He noted that the advisor recommended  a joint level term policy  with £97,500 life cover plus 
£47,500 critical illness cover over a term of 25 years. Yet the mortgage of £97,500  was set 
up on a repayment  basis.
In the suitability letter the advisor said level term cover offered better protection  and was 
transferable unlike decreasing term cover. But the adjudicator thought that all the evidence 
showed that cost was an important issue for Mr and Mrs A, something SPF appeared to 
recognise in its Final Response Letter: it would appear there were budgetary constraints 
that meant  life and critical illness  cover for the full mortgage was not affordable.
Given these budgetary issues he thought the advisor should have recommended  a joint 
decreasing term/critical  illness policy for the amount and term of the mortgage rather  than a 
hybrid arrangement. If this proved too expensive, the consumers would  have been  free to 
amend the plan to meet  their monthly  budget.
He also noted  that the suitability letter made  no mention  of what  was initially  recommended 
or discussed and how the hybrid  arrangement came  about, which was disappointing.
To put matters right, he suggested that SPF should  refund  the difference, if any, between  the 
premiums paid and what would have been  paid had the life and critical illness cover been  
set-up to match the initial  amount of the mortgage  on a reducing basis.  All other aspects of 
the policy should remain as is. Interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to any 
loss.
SPF did not agree, and said:
Whilst not stated in the Suitability  Letter,  the clients have two dependent  children, so 
rather than having an amount of critical illness which would not have covered the full 
mortgage and would  have been reducing,  the adviser recommended a fixed  amount 
of cover which could be used to cover  loss of earnings if either was unable  to work in 
order to reduce the mortgage or pay for other costs arising from serious  illness
Based  on having two young children
They had no other provision via their employer i.e. Death In Service benefits
It believes decreasing  term cover would have been discussed with the clients before 
recommending a level policy, as this is basic financial  planning and common sense,  
even though it has not been recorded  on file
Ref: DRN71853302The Suitability  Letter  also confirms  level cover  is being recommended over 
decreasing therefore the clients would have been aware of the different types of 
policies and that this was an option
Whilst the cover was arranged at the same time as the mortgage, the file does not 
specifically state the critical illness cover  is being  arranged  to protect the mortgage
The adjudicator responded, saying:
Employment benefits were not adequately documented. Mrs A's details  weren't 
obtained and it seems likely Mr A was in receipt  of 'death in service' benefits. This is 
because it is recorded he would have been paid if he suffered long term sickness  - 
suggesting he was also likely  in receipt  of 'death in service'  benefits
It doesn't appear that Mr and Mrs A were financially experienced consumers and as it 
was their first property purchase, they would have  heavily relied upon what the 
advisor said
The advisor doesn't appear to have  obtained all the personal and financial 
information that was necessary and didnt  document what was discussed about 
protecting the mortgage  and any other  protection needs for that matter
If budget was a consideration,  and it appears  it was, then level cover  wouldn't  be 
entirely suitable advice - particularly  as the mortgage was on a capital repayment 
basis
He agreed that additional family  protection would  be a consideration but this should 
have been considered  separately and after the mortgage had been  sorted.  In any 
event, theres nothing to suggest  the critical illness policy  wasn't specifically for the 
protection of the mortgage
He would expect  an advisor to make a clear recommendation and if a consumer 
didn't agree or accept  this, he would expect the advice  to be varied and a clear  
explanation as to why. There  is no clear  explanation to show what was initially 
recommended in this case and why the advice was varied, if indeed it was
As a result, he couldnt safely conclude that Mr and Mrs A were fully aware  and in an 
informed position  to go ahead with this recommendation
SPF did not agree, and said:
The fact that Mr A had sickness cover  for 12 months doesnt indicate he also had 
death in service benefits. The advisor  recorded that he didnt have life assurance in 
place
Whilst the question  regarding sickness cover has not been answered for Mrs A, it 
states she did not have life cover
The affordability assessment within the Fact Find indicates a large surplus each 
month
The adjudicator  stated that "...level  cover wouldn't be entirely  suitable  advice",  so 
how did he then go on to conclude  that the advice  was unsuitable?
Why should family protection have been arranged separately  and after the 
mortgage? Clients are often less engaged and fail to arrange  cover once a mortgage 
has been arranged  and completed
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to base findings on what  is fair and 
reasonable, but this decision seems to be based  solely on what  is documented on file 
without consideration of the conversations that would have taken place
These must have  occurred in order to determine the cover that has been  
recommended
Ref: DRN71853303my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that there is a direct conflict of evidence about what was discussed and that SFP 
has questioned  the basis on which the adjudicator  reached his decision. Therefore, I think  
its important to stress that where theres  a dispute about what  happened, Ive based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I also, however, have to assess  whether there is sufficient, persuasive to safely conclude  
that a business clearly  did something  wrong.
In this case, therefore, while I dont dispute  Mr and Mrs As recollection of what the advisor  
told them,  I dont believe there is enough  evidence to fairly conclude  that he definitely misled  
them into thinking  this policy  was a condition of the mortgage.
I do, however,  agree  that SJPs records of what was discussed are far from satisfactory  both 
in terms of recording all of Mr and Mrs As circumstances  and of the reasons  behind the 
specific recommendation, along with whether other  options had been considered.
While SPF argues that Mr A didnt have  death-in-service benefits  given  its advisor did not 
record that he had any, I believe  it is more likely that he did enjoy such  benefits and the 
advisor simply failed to ask Mr A about  this. Mr A had no apparent financial background, so 
he may not have realised  that employee death-in-service  cover was a form of life insurance.
However, he was recorded as being  in permanent employment, a member of the companys 
pension scheme  and entitled  to generous sickness  benefits. Given this, I think  it is more  
likely than not that he enjoyed death-in-service benefits i.e. life insurance. This, in itself, does 
not make  a recommendation for bespoke cover inappropriate  but it is an important  factor 
when advisor is considering what to recommend, particularly if they then recommend greater 
cover than the mortgage commitment.
I dont believe the evidence indicates  that the advisor fully explored the obvious advantages 
of bespoke decreasing term cover  designed  to match  the reducing borrowing commitment  
on Mr and Mrs As mortgage. So I dont believe his Suitability Letter provided them with 
sufficient, fair and balanced  information to make  an informed decision about whether to go 
ahead with far more  cover  than was needed  to protect their mortgage borrowing.
In particular, I think his reference to a level term policy being portable  while  a decreasing  
term one isnt was inaccurate to the point of being  deliberately misleading. In my view,  it 
casts a shadow over the whole report.
His explanation  for the alleged advantage of a level term policy  is one-sided and also 
misleading. While some clients might choose this option, particularly if cost is not a 
consideration, an advisor ought to offer a fair and balanced picture  of the potential  
advantages and disadvantages  of level cover to protect a decreasing term mortgage. 
For example, it would mean that if Mr or Mrs A had claimed on the policy  within the first few 
years there would be little left over after the mortgage was paid off to help pay for other  
Ref: DRN71853304costs. By contrast if the claim came  towards the end of the 25 year period when  their 
borrowing had almost  being repaid, nearly  all of the £95,000 would be available  for other 
expenditure.
I can see no reason why Mr and Mrs A wouldve wanted, or been attracted to a policy  that 
gave them little or no surplus protection in the early  years (when they had a young family) 
but a very substantial  amount of surplus protection 20 to 25 years in the future. It is hard to 
believe that any client would want such a lopsided and bizarre spread of cover. If this was 
the case, any advisor would need to explain  very carefully why this was appropriate. This 
advisor did not do so.
For all the reasons I am satisfied that the complaint should be upheld.
I would normally instruct SPF to refund the difference between the cost of the premiums  
theyve paid and the cost of the premiums  on an appropriate decreasing term policy  
matching their mortgage (plus interest  on these sums). However, Mr and Mrs A have 
recently told me that given their current circumstances they would like to keep the policy  and 
continue to pay these  higher premiums. I will therefore not instruct  SPF to pay the 
compensation outlined above.
I do, however,  think Mr and Mrs A were very badly advised, and may well have  been  misled 
into thinking that this policy would enhance their chances of getting the mortgage approved. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs As financial situation  at the time I think it is unlikely, on balance, that 
they would  have gone ahead with the recommendation if fully aware  that it would have no 
impact on their mortgage application.
I also think SPFs Final Response Letter (FRL) falls far short of a thorough and fair analysis 
of the advisors  original  recommendation.  If Mr and Mrs A had wanted protection  for this 
mortgage the most appropriate policy would have offered  life AND critical illness  cover  
matching the decreasing term and size of their mortgage. The so-called budgetary 
restraints referred to in the FRL arose, at least in part, from being  wrongly  advised  to take 
out level term cover. I fail to understand why SPF did not address this issue fairly.
Given all the above, I am satisfied that SPF should pay Mr and Mrs A £500 in lieu of the poor 
advice and the undoubted impact on their family  of paying for a policy  they probably did not 
want and was not suited to their mortgage  protection needs. 
I therefore explained my proposed compensation to SPF. It said it had nothing  to add.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  SPF Private Clients  Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs A £500  in 
lieu of its poor advice and the trouble and upset this has cause.
Ref: DRN71853305Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185330