K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to him 
in December 1995. Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) has taken  responsibility  
for this sale so Ill refer to it throughout this decision. 
background
The PPI was sold to Mr E with a store  card. Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and 
thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover. Looking at Mr Es 
circumstances, I think  he met these rules. This means he would have  been  able to claim on 
the policy if he needed to.
Next, Ive considered  whether it was made sufficiently clear  to Mr E that the policy was 
optional. The policy was sold to Mr E in store when he applied for the card. Mr E has told us 
that it wasnt made clear  that the policy  was optional and that he was led to believe  he had to 
have it. 
I cant be sure how the PPI was presented to Mr E when it was sold to him. From what we 
know about how these  policies were sold at the time, on the application form customers 
were usually given  a choice about  the policy. The sale took place over 23 years  ago. Given  
how much  time has passed, theres  limited paperwork and records  available from the time.  
In addition I dont  doubt that Mr E has given us his honest and genuine recollection of what  
happened, but Ive noted that hes unable to recall the details of the sale. Its obviously  
possible his memories of the sale arent particularly strong, which  is understandable given 
how much  time has passed. So Ive had to take this into account in making my decision. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr E has told us. Ive looked at the likelihood of his having  
chosen to take out the PPI versus the likelihood of the salesperson  having  misled him. 
Having considered all the available information Im not persuaded that its more  likely that 
that FICL  failed to make it clear enough  that the PPI was optional. So Im not upholding his 
complaint on this basis. 
Ref: DRN77959972Next, FICL didnt recommend the PPI cover to Mr E, and so wasnt required to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for him. But it did have  to give him information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading about the PPI so that he could make  the decision for himself whether  or not 
to take it out. And looking at the available evidence about the sale, I think  its likely that FICL  
could have given  Mr E better information.  
So Ive considered whether, if Mr E had been  given clearer information, it would have 
affected his decision  about the policy. The first thing to say is that from the information we 
have about Mr Es circumstances, he wouldnt have been caught by any of the major 
exclusions or restrictions. 
Next, the purpose  of the cover was to help Mr E make  his repayments if he lost his job or 
was too unwell to work.  Mr E told us that at the time of the sale if he was too ill to work or 
was made  unemployed he would have been  entitled to employment  or redundancy pay from 
his employer for up to three months.  
From what  we know about this type of policy, the cost was likely to have been  no more than 
£1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mr Es card.  This was more 
expensive than some  other  policies  weve  seen,  however it also paid out a 
higher- than- average  benefit of 15%. This would  have been paid for a longer period than his 
employer benefits;  until the policy ended, until he returned to work or until his balance  was 
cleared. Ive seen  nothing  that suggests  Mr E would have found  these  monthly charges 
unaffordable and the benefits would have paid out in addition to any other means he already 
had in place at the time. 
Ive considered what Mr E has told us about not needing the PPI, but overall Ive concluded 
its more likely that if FICL had provided  Mr E with clearer information,  it would  not have put 
him off taking out the policy. On balance,  I dont think having better information would have 
changed his mind about taking out the PPI and so in this case, I dont think  FICL needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E but for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7795997