K821x#15complaint
Mr L complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan. Hes complained about a number of loans, so to be clear, 
this decision is about the loan taken  out in December 2009.
background
Mr L applied for a loan of £5,000 over a 60 month  term at a meeting  he had with Lloyds. He 
was sold a PPI policy  which  covered  him if he lost his job or became unable to work.
I can see Lloyds has already paid Mr L for some of the commission it received from selling 
him the PPI policy with this loan. But our adjudicator who looked  at this complaint  said the 
PPI policy  had also been mis-sold in the first place. They said the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
Mr L. So the adjudicator recommended his complaint ought to be upheld  in full. 
It doesnt look like Lloyds  responded to this view even  though  I see weve  sent it out more 
than once, so Im now issuing a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case. 
Having done this Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about being mis-sold the PPI.
Mr L said he couldnt remember much  about  the sale. But he says he didnt  ever agree to 
any PPI. However, these events are now 10 years old and I think  he probably  would have  
been aware at the time. This is because Ive seen documentation from the sale which  shows 
the PPI was discussed and that he agreed to buy it by signing a form.
But Lloyds advised him during the course  of this sale and it therefore had a duty to make  
sure the policy  was suitable for Mr L. It also had to provide information  that was clear 
enough for him to make an informed decision  about  what he wanted to do.
I dont think Lloyds did either of these things on this occasion because the recommendation 
it made  to have PPI with his loan - seems based  on a contradictory analysis of his 
circumstances. And it doesnt look to me that the PPI was suitable for him.
I say this because  during  the meeting Mr L disclosed that hed been to the doctor in the 12 
months before the sale. He also told us hed been suffering from a medical condition  before 
the and at the time of the sale. This is important because the policy  had certain rules about 
claiming for medical  conditions that already existed.  Having  looked carefully at Mr Ls 
situation, I think claiming on the policy  for the illness he says he had would have been 
difficult. 
I also note the recommendation Lloyds made says that Mr L already had certain  forms of 
insurance which seem to be very similar in nature to the PPI he was sold by Lloyds. But 
despite acknowledging this, the Lloyds adviser  didnt  take enough care to establish  what the 
Ref: DRN76401942other insurance(s) covered. The adviser seemed content to leave  this unclarified and sell the 
PPI anyway, which I dont  think was appropriate.  
Also, the form the adviser used to note down Mr Ls insurance needs also seems to say that 
the sickness protection isnt something  he needed  in his circumstances. This and other 
explanations on the form seem  very contradictory to me. Despite these things the adviser 
recommended the PPI even though it seemed  he was probably adequately  protected.  Mr L 
has since told us he had accident / sickness cover elsewhere which  would have meant he 
didnt really need the type of protection the PPI came with.
So overall, I dont  think the policy was suitable  for Mr L. And I dont think he was told enough 
to allow  him to make an informed decision.  I think if these issues had been  made clear,  Mr L 
wouldnt have wanted the PPI policy. He would have considered it as poor value for money  
in his situation.
Because of this, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.
what Lloyds should do to put matters right 
Lloyds should:
Pay back Mr L the entire amount he paid each month for PPI cover. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets the whole sum 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr L made a successful claim under any part of the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes. It can also take off the compensation 
it has already paid in relation to the commission element Ive mentioned.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr L a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my decision
I am upholding  this complaint and I direct Lloyds  Bank PLC to pay back the cost of the PPI 
to Mr L as Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7640194