Complaint
Miss P complains  that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) provided her with a hire 
purchase agreement  in March 2017  that was unaffordable to her.
Background
The background to this complaint and my preliminary findings were set out in a provisional 
decision dated 11 February 2021 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they might have before I 
reached my final decision. Miss P responded to my provisional decision to indicate that she 
accepted my findings.
SMFL did not respond within  the deadline  that was set. It then responded setting out at 
some length  why it didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. Ive summarised it submissions 
as follows:
-It questioned why Miss P proceeded to take out finance, if she felt pressured and 
knew that she couldnt afford it. It pointed out that she had sought out finance herself 
and completed the initial application online 24 hours  in advance of attending  the 
dealership. In addition, there was a delay  of three days before the finance was 
ultimately approved  as SMFL had to check Miss Ps address. Therefore, it said Miss 
P had plenty of time to contact  SMFL  to let it know of any concerns she had and 
express any reservations about proceeding with the application.
-It highlighted  that Miss P had said that an initial monthly instalment of £280  was 
discussed, but Miss P didnt accept that as she knew she couldnt  afford  it. But when 
a monthly repayment of £266 was suggested, she accepted  that because her 
children were excited about  getting  the new car. It said this indicated that Miss P had 
had an understanding of and considered  her financial position and concluded that 
she could afford  the monthly payment of £266. Any pressure she felt to go ahead  
with the agreement likely  came  from her children  and not the dealership  or SMFL.
-Equally, SMFL questioned how Miss P could  have been led to believe that she could  
withdraw from the finance agreement at any point when the terms and condition  
didnt support this. It highlighted  the responsibility was on Miss P to read the 
agreement before agreeing to be bound by its terms.
-It re-iterated that had it know Miss P was self-employed it would not have lent to her.
It said there was no evidence she told the dealership this was the case and 
highlighted that she did not disclose it on the online application form. It questioned
K820x#14
Ref: DRN7924352why if Miss P believed  this to be relevant, she didnt raise it sooner rather than 
waiting until three  years  before recalling the conversation at the dealership.  It 
questioned whether I was suggesting  that Miss P gave one set of details at the 
application stage  and another at the dealership, which in turn suggested that Miss P 
had provided incorrect  information on her application and that is something she 
should have declared and which SMFL were not aware of.
-It said it hadnt  been able to provide  all documentary evidence  due to the passage of 
time, but if felt it had provided sufficient detail  regarding  Miss Ps circumstances,  
which she had never questioned until she raised  concerns about the finance being 
provided. It felt I was freely accepting Miss Ps version of events over the 
documentary and factual evidence it had provided.
-It said that the historic  CCJ, having been paid over a very short time, showed Miss P 
was in a finical position to settle the CCJ extremely quickly  and would give it no 
cause for concern.  And it said that the missed  payment was in relation a credit  card 
with a low limit and balance. It commented  that being only one payment in arrears 
raised no undue concern as revolving credit can allow  for repayments  to be more 
flexible and all of Miss Ps other financial commitments were  being maintained.
-It explained  that it specialised in providing credit to customers  who may struggle to 
get finance elsewhere for cars which many customers need to fulfil commitments 
around employment and family. So, having  a recent payment  arrangement  wouldnt 
automatically prohibit  someone from obtaining  finance with it where there  is evidence  
that it is affordable  and sustainable. Specifically for Miss P, it said that all her credit 
commitments were  accounted for in the affordability calculation, which showed that 
Miss P could afford  the car. It said the application data,  credit  file and affordability 
assessment demonstrated sufficient  evidence of creditworthiness and affordability 
based on her circumstances at the time.
-Having taken  all of the above  into account  it didnt feel any further checks were 
required.
-It highlighted  that the investigator who initially reviewed Miss Ps bank statements 
has found she had a disposable  income of £328.29 and so could meet the monthly  
repayment of £266.67.  It highlighted  that the investigator had taken Miss Ps rent into 
account and wondered  whether in fact, given Miss Ps circumstances, she had been 
in receipt of housing  benefit to assist with her rent.
-It said it appreciated  that Miss P had provided  this service with a copy  of her bank 
statements that showed an average income  of £1,300.  But it believed Miss P had 
more than one bank account.  It said this because Miss Ps income  was verified  
through TAC as £1,900 and its records showed that Miss P had contacted  it in April 
2017 to inform it that the reason for non-payment  on the account was that she had 
not transferred  her money in time,  which would suggest she had more  than one 
account. It asked if I could confirm if Miss P had another  account and how Miss P 
was receiving her benefits.
-It said regardless,  even if Miss Ps income had been verified at £1,300 it would have  
adjusted her expenditure based on her income  and her disposable income  would 
have been £313.75,  with her monthly  repayment  on the loan being £266.67.
Ref: DRN7924352-It noted that I had commented that it looked  like Miss P had changed  employer on 
three occasion between November 2016  and November 2017.  It said Miss P may 
have changed  her employer in March  2017, but it wouldnt  have been aware of what 
happened after it made the decision to lend, but it had been aware she had been in 
her current  employment for one continuous month.
-It said that although  after entering into the agreement Miss P did unfortunately have a 
change in circumstances which  resulted  in her being in and out of hospital, its 
records showed it had set up arrangements, offered extensions  and it has previously 
removed fees to assist  Miss P. In June 2018 when Miss P told it she had lost her job 
due to being in and out of hospital, it referred her to its specialist  team. It discussed 
options with her such as voluntarily  surrendering  the car, providing a settlement 
figure, and payment  arrangements  for either four or six months. However,  at that time 
Miss P wanted to keep the car and continue  to pay the monthly instalment.
-In September 2019 [sic] it discussed  voluntary  surrender again with Miss P and in 
October 2018 sent Miss P an income and expenditure form for Miss P to complete to 
gain an understanding of her financial situation to determine the most appropriate 
course of action, but Miss P did not return the form. It said following Miss Ps request 
to voluntarily surrender  the car and despite  not receiving the income  and expenditure 
form back, in July 2019, it agreed that she could pay £50 per month to be reviewed 
once Miss P was back in employment.
-It sympathised with the fact that Miss P had been unwell but noted that Miss P had 
advised she was entering into education  for the next three years and felt this may 
have been a factor in why Miss P had raised  concerns  about  the finance  three  years  
after entering into it.
SMFL asked  that I provide comments on what it had said before issuing a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
SMFL has made lengthy submissions in response to my provisional  decision. I have 
considered all of what  it has said. The response  included a series  of questions and 
challenges to the conclusions I had reached, but in the main,  didnt provide any new material 
or significant evidence for me to consider. Ill address what  I consider to be the main points 
SMFL has raised and explain  why these dont change the outcome Ive reached.
SMFL has objected to what Miss P has said about  feeling  pressured at the dealership about 
the sale. It has highlighted that Miss P had ample opportunity to change her mind and also 
her behaviour at the dealership, for example not accepting the initial  higher monthly 
payment, shows she understood her financial situation.
I have not made a finding about whether  or not there  was a pressurised sale at the 
dealership. Nor have  I made a finding on whether Miss P was led to believe that she could 
withdraw from the agreement. In fact, I explicitly made it clear in my provisional decision that 
I was not deciding the latter issue.
Ref: DRN7924352That said,  I think the thrust of what SMFL  is saying here is that there is evidence to suggest 
that Miss P had an understanding of her finances  and also that she had time to stop the sale 
going ahead, if once  away from the dealership she reflected and felt that she had concerns 
about the sales process and the affordability of the agreement.
And I agree with that to an extent. I think it is reasonable to expect consumers to consider 
carefully whether  or not they can afford credit that they are being offered. But sometimes, 
circumstances can mean  that a consumer might make a wrong decision, perhaps having  not 
thought through the reality  of the financial  implications attached to borrowing.
That is why reasonable and proportionate checks by the lender at the time of lending  are so 
important and the regulatory obligation  lies with SMFL to ensure that the lending  is 
affordable.
SMFL re-iterated that it would not have lent to Miss P had it known she was self-employed.  It 
said she didnt declare it on the application form and there was no evidence that she told the 
dealer. It questioned  whether Miss P had given one set of details on the application form and 
another to the dealer,  and therefore provided incorrect  information on the application and if 
that were the case, Miss P should have  flagged that sooner.
SMFL also felt that I was accepting what Miss P had said, sometime after the loan was taken  
out, over documentary evidence and detail  it had provided, while  acknowledging  it hadnt 
been able to provide all the relevant documents due to the passage of time.
Where evidence is missing or incomplete,  I look at what I think  is most  likely to be the case.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, it is unfortunate that the online application form isnt 
available. I dont think it unreasonable  for SMFL to have been able to produce  a copy of this 
given the timeframe between the application and when Miss P first raised her complaint.
As a result of the form not being available, I am unclear as to the depth of the initial online 
application, the questions involved or how they or the application itself was framed. For 
example, I dont know how the employment question was framed and whether there was 
even an option  for Miss P to record that she was self-employed. And, by not being able to 
provide the application  form, SMFL  hasnt  provided me with persuasive  evidence as to how 
the question around income was framed, for example  as an annual  or monthly amount or as 
a net or gross figure.
I simply dont  know how clear the questions  where  or what opportunity Miss P was given to 
expand on things. So, I dont think I can fairly  draw  a conclusion that Miss P was dishonest 
or provided  incorrect information on the application  form.
Moreover, and rather alarmingly in my view, SMFL has suggested that even  if Miss P had 
declared an income of £1,300 on her application form, it still would have gone on to lend to 
her. So, it seems to me the extent to which the income declared by Miss P on the application 
form impacted on the decision  to lend in this case was limited,  if it impacted at all.
But even if there  were inconsistencies  or incorrect information on the application form, 
crucially here, and as I set out at length in my provisional decision,  I think  given the size and 
term of the loan, what SMFL knew of Miss P from its initial  credit check and the 
inconsistency around time in employment  meant SMFL could and should have delved  
deeper into Miss Ps circumstances  before agreeing  to lend to her.
Ref: DRN7924352Those conversations and enquiries should  have taken place at the dealership and before 
any decision  to lend was made. Clearly,  neither  I nor SMFL were at the dealership to 
understand exactly how the sale unfolded and we struggled to get in touch with the 
dealership for an account from it. And as above, where evidence is missing or incomplete, I 
look at what I think is most likely to be the case.
Having spoken  to Miss P, about her time at the dealership, although she doesnt  recall 
exactly what was discussed,  I found her to be credible and I think  it likely  that Miss P gave 
accurate information  in her conversations there.
I think it likely further questions were  asked about  her financial circumstances as would be 
usual when an agreement  of this size and term is brokered and I think  this is evidenced by 
the fact information  that Miss P had only been in her current  role for about  a month came to 
light.
I think that Miss P likely responded honestly  to any questions she was asked, about time in 
and nature of her employment, and about her expected earnings, which should then have 
been made available to SMFL by the dealer/broker.
SMFL has said that the satisfied historic CCJ and the fact that her credit card was one 
month in arrears gave  it no undue  cause for concern.  While  I do not suggest that it means  
that SMFL  is prohibited from lending in circumstances where such adverse  credit information 
arises, I do think  that in the circumstances of this case they act as indicators that Miss P 
might have been struggling  with existing financial commitments.
While I acknowledge the CCJ was settled about  18 months before SMFL lent to Miss P, it 
still indicates that Miss P had been significantly struggling with a financial commitment  in the 
24 months before the loan. After all a CCJ is generally the last step taken by a lender  in 
relation to a failing debt. And this, taken together with the fact that Miss P has missed a 
recent credit card payment, makes me think it wasnt reasonable or proportionate for SMFL  
to rely on statistical data to estimate  Miss Ps expenditure.
SMFL has said that it specialises in providing  credit to customers who may struggle to get 
finance elsewhere. That may be so, but having regard to the regulatory obligations on it to 
carry out a borrow-focused check,  Id expect  it to have taken additional steps  where 
repayment difficulties  are apparent as I think they were here, particularly when they sit 
alongside the other information that came to light as part of its checks  about Miss P.
Overall I remain  satisfied  that, given the size and term of the loan, the cost of credit,  what 
SMFL knew  of Miss P from her credit  report,  and the apparent inconsistency  about her time 
in employment,  I think  SMFL should  have conducted  further enquiries before it lent to Miss P 
to satisfy itself that Miss P could  sustainably afford  to maintain the loan. I also think SMFL 
could have made better use of the information that was available to it.
SMFL questioned whether Miss Ps financial circumstances were  such  that in fact she had a 
disposable income to meet the loan repayments.  It again highlighted the TAC check  
confirmed an income of £1,900. It also questioned  whether Miss P had been in receipt of 
housing benefits  or if she had a second bank account.
Miss P has confirmed she had only two bank accounts at the time and I have looked at 
Miss Ps credit file which shows only two bank accounts in existence at the time of the
Ref: DRN7924352lending. I have reviewed  the statements for both of these accounts. One account had a zero 
balance throughout the period in question. I have conducted a manual review  of Miss Ps 
main account and set out my findings  in my provisional decision.
Having conducted  a review of Miss Ps financial circumstances, Im satisfied that reasonable 
and proportionate checks and a reasonable assessment by SMFL, would more  likely than 
not have shown that Miss P would not have been able to make  the repayments  to this loan 
without borrowing further and/or suffering undue  difficulty  and therefore sustainably maintain 
the loan.
For the sake of completeness, benefits  were paid into Miss Ps main  account and I took 
those into account  as income  when I conducted  my manual review.  Miss P has said that she 
wasnt on housing benefit at the time, which is supported by her bank statements.
I acknowledge what SMFL has said about the TAC tool and it seems quite adamant that it 
verified an income of £1,900 net into Miss Ps account. Clearly,  my description of Miss Ps 
finances as I have set out in my provisional decision does not marry up to an income into her 
bank account  of £1,900  net income  per month.
I cant explain this anomaly. It could be something  as simple as the income figure or that fact 
that it was net as opposed to gross  has been  mis-typed or mis-recorded at some  point.
Although I do note in other correspondence  SMFL told this service  that its TAC check  
confirmed that a minimum of the amount stated was being received into Miss Ps bank 
account, which indicates that it may operate to not confirm the full amount being received 
into an account. Moreover, I dont know that it actually confirms what  of that account income 
was derived from employment  or whether it also takes into account other income,  such  as 
for example, any benefits paid into the account.
Ultimately, it just isnt clear. But in the absence of anything further, I think the disparity 
between what SMFL  says the TAC check showed and what Miss Ps actual statements 
show helps to demonstrate the caution  to be applied  in relying too heavily  on tools  of this 
nature.
Equally, SMFLs  suggestion that even  if it verified  Miss Ps income at £1,300 it would have 
adjusted her expenditure based on her income  to give a disposable income  that met the cost 
of the loan causes me concern. I cant see how a lower income would automatically equate 
to a lower expenditure and it clearly wouldnt have  in the case of Miss P. So again, I think 
this demonstrates the need for caution  when relying on a standardised data source for 
assessing expenditure.
Standardised tools and data sources may well suffice or be a good  starting  point for lenders 
in assessing affordability in some cases,  but that is subject, in my view, to proportionality  and 
considerations such as, for example, the size and term of the loan and what a lender knows 
of the applicant.
Ref: DRN7924352I acknowledge what SMFL has said about the fact that Miss Ps circumstances changed  
after she took out the agreement. And while that may be the case, it doesnt negate my 
findings above, that reasonable and proportionate  checks and a reasonable assessment by 
SMFL, would more likely  than not have shown that Miss P would not have been  able to 
make the repayments  to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty  
and therefore  sustainably maintain the loan.
And although I can see that SMFL  showed  some forbearance in its dealings  with Miss P, as I 
set out in my provisional decision, I think it could  have gone further to assist  Miss P as a 
customer in ill health and in financial difficulties.
Finally, SMFL asked that I provide my comments on its submissions before issuing a final 
decision. I wrote to SMFL to ask it why that might be. I explained that having carefully 
considered all it had set out in its submissions, nothing  it had said had caused me to depart 
from my provisional findings.  I said that as it hadnt provided me with any new or material 
information, I thought I could  fairly address its submissions in this final decision. However, I 
did agree  to pause on issuing my decision to allow it to expand or comment further. SMFL 
did not respond within the time frame given.  This complaint  has gone on for some time. I 
think the matter now needs to be and can fairly  be brought to a conclusion.
Having carefully considered everything  that SMFL  has said, nothing  it has said has given me 
cause to depart from the findings  in my provisional decision which  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As such, I intend to uphold  this
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Specialist Motor  Finance Limited.  To 
settle it, Specialist  Motor  Finance Limited should:
-limit Miss Ps liability to £3,325;
-if Miss P hasnt met this liability SMFL should allow  Miss P to continue to pay 
any arrears by way of a reasonable  repayment  plan;
-if Miss P has paid more than £3,325  including the £200 part- 
exchange/deposit  SMFL should refund anything paid over £3,325  along 
with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
-remove any adverse information about the agreement from Miss Ps credit  
file;
-pay Miss P £200 in compensation.
If SMFL does not pay this £200 compensation for inconvenience and distress  within  28 days  
of the date on which we tell it Miss P accepts  my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Ref: DRN7924352If SMFL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest  part of my award,  it should  tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
Siobhan Kelly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7924352Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Miss P complains  that Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMFL) provided her with a hire purchase 
agreement in March 2017 that was unaffordable to her.
Background
In early March 2017,  Miss P took out a hire purchase agreement for a used car. She said she saw the 
car advertised online  and following an online query, she was initially accepted for finance,  but said that 
it was only available for a 24-hour period. Miss P travelled to the dealership  (some distance from her 
home). She said she traded  in her old car as part of the deal. She signed the agreement, but said she 
later realised she couldnt  reasonably afford the monthly repayments.
She said she felt pressured by the salesperson into taking out the agreement  but believed that if her 
circumstances changed  and she found  payments difficult she at least had the opportunity to pull out of 
the agreement and return the car with no penalty.
At the time she said she had only been in self-employed work for two weeks.  Since  then she suffered 
periods of ill health and hospitalisation. She said she only managed to pay about 13 payments in the 
20 months or so that she had the car.
Miss P complained  to SMFL. It issued  its final response letter in October  2018. In respect of the 
lending checks conducted, SMFL said Miss Ps application for finance was submitted through  a 
broker and based on information in that application and relevant credit  checks it had completed to 
assess her creditworthiness,  Miss P fitted with its affordability model and so was subsequently 
approved for the finance.  It invited Miss P to contact it to discuss her current  financial circumstances.
Unhappy with SMFLs  response,  Miss P asked  this service to look at her complaint.  At around the 
same time, she agreed to the voluntary surrender of the car, which left her with an amount to pay of 
about £9,875. She entered into discussion with SMFL about a suitable  repayment plan.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint and Miss P asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
Having reviewed  the complaint, Ive reached a different  conclusion to that of our investigator and I am 
minded to uphold this complaint for the reasons  Ill set out in detail below.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL lent to Miss P while  it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all 
authorised firms are required  to comply with.
The principles themselves  are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The most  relevant principles here
are PRIN 2.1.1R(6) which says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly; and PRIN 2.1.1R(7) which  says: A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules and guidance which apply  to providers  
of consumer credit like SMFL. SMFL will be familiar with those rules and variations in those rules over 
time. In this decision,  I have referred to the rules and guidance as they were at the time of SMFLs 
decision to lend to Miss P.
Ref: DRN7924352Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance, good industry  practice and law, I think  
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
-Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss P would  
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending  decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss P wouldve been able to do so?
-Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine  that SMFL didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Miss P and that she has 
lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did SMFL  complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy itself  that Miss P would be 
able to repay  her loan in a sustainable way?
The regulatory framework in place at the time Miss Ps finance was provided requires SMFL  to have 
carried out a proportionate and reasonable  assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether 
Miss P could afford  to repay her loan with it in a sustainable manner.
This affordability assessment had to be borrower  focused. This means  that it wasnt enough  for 
SMFLs checks to consider only whether it would  get the amounts due under the agreement. Rather  
than focusing on the credit  risk for SMFL, the assessment needed  to have sufficient checks  to satisfy 
SMFL that Miss P would be able to repay her loan sustainably and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse impact  on Miss Ps financial  situation.
The extent and scope  of an assessment will depend on an number of factors, proportionate to the 
individual circumstances, such as the amount of credit, the duration of the loan, the cost of credit, the 
monthly repayments, the financial position of the customer  at the time of seeking  the credit, the 
customers credit  history  including any indications that the customer is experiencing or has 
experienced financial difficulties, and the vulnerability  of the customer.
In terms of the lending checks conducted, SMFL, in its final response letter to Miss P, said that her 
application for finance was submitted through a broker on 4 March 2017.  It said she was asked for 
personal details and credit information to be passed  to a panel of lenders.  Relevant  credit checks 
were completed to assess her creditworthiness and based on the information  and documentation  
provided, Miss P fitted with its affordability model and so was subsequently approved for the finance.
SMFL provided further detail to this service  on the level of checks it conducted and what  those checks  
revealed.
It said Miss Ps application  was manually underwritten and was subsequently approved on 7 March 
2017. It wasnt able to provide a copy of her online  application  stating  this was due to the passage of 
time. But it said Miss P had confirmed she was single,  living in rented accommodation and employed  
as a sales manager.  In earlier correspondence it provided  the name of the employer as shown  on 
Miss Ps bank  statement.  In later correspondence, it referred  to a different employer.
It said Miss P declared a net monthly income  of £1,900 and her annual salary was confirmed  as
£22,800. It said it completed a TAC income  check. It explained that this was a tool provided by one of 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs) to verify income information provided  by a consumer. It said 
this was achieved by comparing data held by the CRA in its over-indebtedness initiative which  all 
major banks  contribute to and used current account turnover data and recent application data shared 
by its members in order  to provide a view of income and confidence stability.
As the TAC check confirmed the details  Miss P provided, no further proof of income was required.  In 
other correspondence,  it said the TAC check verified Miss Ps net monthly  income of £1,900 and that
Ref: DRN7924352is was not overstated. Based on the information provided, Miss P passed its TAC check  which it said 
confirmed that a minimum of the amount stated was being received into Miss Ps bank account.
SMFL said based on Miss Ps occupation status,  region and income band it assumed 73% of the Miss 
Ps income as total non-discretionary  expenditure (£1,387). It was also aware of an additional £37.25 
credit commitment. Once this was deducted  from Miss Ps income,  it left a disposable income of
£475.75. However,  SMFL said it had a cap in place  which  meant that no customer could borrow more 
than 25% of their net income  so the amount  it was prepared to lend to Miss P was therefore  capped  
at £475 per month, with Miss Ps actual monthly payment being £266.67.
SMFL further explained  that when  the application  went through its underwriting process  Miss Ps 
CAIS (credit file) data was considered. It said that Miss Ps credit  file showed historic satisfied defaults  
from 5 years ago. There was one credit card that was 1 down but this had a small balance and was 
under an arrangement. It provided  a screen shot of the information it had retrieved from the CRA.
SMFL maintains therefore  that appropriate checks were completed  in order to establish Miss Ps 
creditworthiness and the affordability  of the agreement at the outset.
Our investigator also contacted the credit intermediary who brokered  the agreement to see if she 
could get more  information about the application itself, but its systems  didnt allow it to access data 
from the time of Miss Ps application. It said she was auto-accepted by SMFL  after a soft search on 
her credit file. It didnt have any record of the part-exchange of Miss Ps old car and suggested our 
investigator contact the dealership about this, commenting that it no longer  conducted business  with 
this dealership. Our investigator tried to contact the dealership to no avail.
I am grateful for the detail SMFL has provided  in setting out how it assessed the affordability of the 
agreement for Miss P, which it provided  over different pieces of correspondence, which was confusing 
to unpick  and at times appeared to provide  contradictory information. There were  also some delays 
between when I asked  it for the information and when it provided it and sometimes it didnt  address all 
that I had asked. This made getting to grips with exactly what SMFL had done here challenging.  It 
wasnt easy to get a clear understanding of exactly how SMFL had carried  out its creditworthiness 
assessment and the way in which it weighed  up and considered the information it had.
However, having read carefully what SMFL said about the checks  it did before lending  to Miss P, I 
think they can be summarised as that it received its information about Miss P through  an online 
application and information  complied by the car dealership and credit  intermediary. It then manually 
assessed Miss Ps application. It relied on Miss Ps self-declared income, which  it cross-referenced  by 
using a CRA tool that looked  at her current account turnover. It also seems that SMFL used some 
sample data available to it from another company in its group to assume  a likely non-discretionary 
expenditure figure for Miss P. In addition, it weighed up the adverse information on Miss Ps credit file 
and it capped  the amount it was willing  to lend Miss P at 25% of her monthly net income.
I acknowledge that SMFL has relied  on what appears to be standard industry  tools or collated  data in 
undertaking its creditworthiness assessment here. Those tools  and data sources may well suffice or 
be a good starting point  for lenders in assessing affordability in some cases. But that is subject, in my 
view, to proportionality and considerations such as, for example, the size and term of the loan and 
what a lender knows of the applicant.
Moreover, credit checks or other information gathered might reveal  something that requires  or should 
prompt further  investigation,  beyond standardised tools or sample data, so that a lender can be 
satisfied that the lending is sustainable and wont have an adverse impact on the consumer or place  
them into financial difficulties.
Lenders should be mindful of the fact that standardised checks  are, by their nature,  not customer 
specific. So, they should be particularly  keen to scrutinise  discrepancies when they appear, 
particularly where the creditworthiness  assessment  has highlighted any other risk factors.
Ref: DRN7924352Having carefully thought about the extent of the checks carried out by SMFL,  I dont think they were 
proportionate in these  particular circumstances. Ill explain why Ive arrived at that provisional  position.
The cash price of the car here was £7,216. The APR was 37.9% and the total amount payable was
£13,245, with the total charge for credit being  £6,029.16  including fees. The loan was scheduled over 
49 months with one payment  of £250, then 47 payments of £266.67 and a final payment of £461.67.  
There is no deposit/advance payment showing on any of the paperwork.  It seems that although Miss 
P said she traded  in a previous car that she said she was told shed get £200  for  that didnt 
generate any deposit/advance payment on any of the paperwork for this agreement.
In thinking about what proportionate checks might reasonably look like here, I keep in mind that the 
loan was for 4 years, the amount of credit was over £7,000  and the cost of the credit was around
£6,000. In addition,  as a proportion of Miss Ps income, the monthly repayments were  not an 
insignificant monthly commitment at £266 each month. Ive also taken into consideration what SMFL  
knew about Miss P through the credit search and other checks that it conducted.
Significantly in this case, the credit search SMFL conducted  revealed that Miss P was already in 
arrangement to pay with another  lender.  An arrangement to pay, I think, is an indicator that Miss P 
may have been struggling to meet existing financial  commitments and that should have given  rise to 
further enquiry.
SMFL also highlighted that Miss P had some historic satisfied  defaults from five years  ago and that 
during the application process Miss Ps CAIS (credit file data)  and any county court  judgements were 
underwritten. Although the defaults  were  historic, they are still relevant information. I can see from the 
information provided  by SMFL that one communications  account defaulted in 2011 for £152 and had 
been partially  satisfied and another  for £836 in 2012, but I couldnt see anything  to show that the 
account had been satisfied.
Although SMFL said it considered any county court judgements, it didnt  mention whether there had 
actually been any. Miss Ps own credit file shows that Miss P had a county court  judgement obtained 
against her around  20 months  before  SMFL  lent to her (and satisfied about 18 months before the 
lending) and I think a reasonable credit reach would or should have revealed that.
This taken together  with the fact that it seems  Miss Ps defaults   albeit historic - werent  fully 
satisfied, is again in my view evidence  to indicate that Miss P may have been struggling to manage 
her finances.
In light of what Miss Ps credit file revealed, I dont think it was reasonable  for SMFL to rely on 
standardised tools to assess income or statistical data to estimate  Miss Ps expenditure. I think  the 
credit search  results should have prompted SMFL to find out more about Miss Ps financial 
circumstances to be sure that she could sustainably  afford  to repay the agreement.
In addition to this, I can see from SMFLs system notes  that time in employment  is actually 1 mth not 
3 years. I take this to mean that her time in employment was in fact one month and not three years, 
as suggested by the initial information it had. This was an important piece of apparently contradictory  
information and gave rise to questions over Miss Ps time in employment.
CONC has rules and guidance about this type of scenario. It sets out that a firm must not accept  a 
credit agreement where it suspects the customer  has not been  truthful  in completing the application. It 
gives an example of where the customer has provided  inconsistent  information about their 
employment status.
SMFL could have gone on to decline Miss Ps application  when this erroneous information regarding 
her time in employment came to light.  But despite those inconsistencies, it seems SMFL  decided to 
proceed with Miss Ps application  and having decided  to do that, I think it was under a heightened 
obligation to ensure that everything  was as it should  be.
Ref: DRN7924352In response to my questions to SMFL, asked whether Miss P had potentially  provided falsified 
information as part of the application process, highlighting  that Miss P told this service  that she had 
been self-employed for two weeks, and it would  not have  approved an application for someone in this 
position.
I can see how a shift from being employed  to self-employed might matter to a lender and why it might 
have declined  to lend had it known  this. And I think it is clear that borrowers should be honest when  
they apply for credit and lenders are entitled to expect  that honesty.
It is unfortunate that the online application form isnt available. Im unclear as to the depth of the initial 
online application, the questions involved or how they or the application  itself was framed. It made 
getting to grips with what was disclosed  and in what context difficult. For example, I dont know how 
the employment question was framed and whether  there was even an option for Miss P to record that 
she was self-employed.
Without SMFL being able to provide the form itself,  I am unable to assess  the extent and impact of 
this more fully. So, I dont think  SMFL has provided  persuasive evidence  of exactly what Miss P was 
asked at the application stage.
Moreover, and significantly, having spoken to Miss P about her time at the dealership, although she 
doesnt recall exactly what was discussed, I think it likely  that Miss P gave accurate information in her 
conversations at the dealership, responding honestly to any questions  she was asked,  about time in 
and nature of her employment, and about her expected earnings, which should then have been made  
available to SMFL by the dealer/broker.
Miss P also seemed  adamant  that the income  figure that SMFL had for her is higher than anything  
she would have given.  Again, I dont have the application form available to explore more  fully what  
Miss P was asked about  her income at the application stage, so as above SMFL  hasnt provided 
persuasive evidence of exactly what Miss P was asked. And as above, I think Miss P likely gave 
accurate information about her expected earnings in her discussions at the dealership and before the 
lending decision was made.
But in any event, given  the size and term of the loan, the cost of credit, what SMFL  knew of Miss P 
from her credit report, and the apparent inconsistency  about  her time in employment, I think  SMFL 
should have conducted further enquires before it lent to Miss P to satisfy itself that Miss P could 
sustainably afford to maintain the loan. I also think SMFL could have made better use of the 
information that was available to it.
Overall, I am not satisfied that the checks SMFL  undertook  were proportionate in the circumstances  
or that it undertook a reasonable assessment of what it did know about Miss P before taking  the 
decision to lend.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss  P would  be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way?
As reasonable and proportionate  checks werent carried out for this agreement, I need to decide 
whether it is more likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate check  would  have told SMFL  
that the agreement would be affordable and sustainable for Miss P given Miss Ps financial 
circumstances at the time.
I think  at the very least  SMFL could reasonably have asked  Miss P more  about  her income, 
employment status  and her actual  expenditure, which  may have  in turn have led it to further questions  
and investigation. As I set out above, there were some, in my view, obvious questions  to have been 
asked and checks  undertaken.
Miss P has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied for the 
agreement in the form of her bank statements, which  provide some more detail about  her income and
Ref: DRN7924352expenditure. I appreciate  different checks might show different  things and just because  something 
shows up in the information  Miss P has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks  
SMFL might have carried out.
But in the absence of anything  else from SMFL  showing what steps it took to confirm affordability, I 
think its fair and reasonable  to place  considerable  weight  on the information provided  by Miss P as an 
indication of what Miss Ps financial circumstances  were  likely to have been at the time.
Miss P told this service that she is and was at the time a single mother  of two primary school children. 
Miss Ps bank  statements  show that she was in receipt of working tax credit and child benefits, but 
also that she had salaries coming  in from different  sources  in the months leading  up to the lending. It 
looks like her employer changed on three occasions between November  2016 and March  2017, so 
her monthly  income  fluctuates.
Miss Ps bank  statement  show an average monthly income (including benefits payments) in the three  
months leading up to the loan (December to February) of around £1,300 and this figure broadly 
reflects her overall income for February 2017, the month before the agreement  was taken out.
Although Miss Ps rent and council tax didnt appear on her statements, our investigator asked Miss P 
more about these outgoings.  In relation to her council  tax, she provided her council tax bill and said 
that she was in a significant amount of debt with her council tax as she couldnt  afford to pay it at that 
time.
Miss P also provided her rent agreement and explained  that she paid this in cash, with her step-father 
and mother it seems from the paperwork being the landlords for her flat. There are some cash 
withdrawals on the account and some transfers to her mother and step-father and Ive no reason to 
doubt what Miss P has said here.
In any event, even if there was a degree of informality  about  how and when payments were made  (I 
can see Miss P told SMFL in August 2018 that she was in arrears with her rent)  Miss P has 
provided information  to show that these payments were contractually  due, so I think  they can fairly be 
taken into account in assessing  her expenditure.
Miss Ps bank statements show that she was in and out of her overdraft in the months leading up to 
the loan,  incurring interest and charges.  In the month before the loan was taken out, she paid £80 in 
bank account  fees. The account was overdrawn both at the beginning and middle of that month  and 
at the time she took the agreement out.
Looking at Miss Ps bank statements and what she has told us about her rent and council tax in 
February 2017, Miss Ps financial situation was such that her disposable income after only deducting 
her fixed/committed  monthly expenditure was about £300.  This didnt  meet the monthly  repayment 
under the agreement, let alone cover the cost of petrol, food, childcare  and clothing - as well as 
everyday living expenses.
And of course,  whether Miss P could afford to repay the loans is more than just a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. It is whether she could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. Miss P had accrued  
arrears elsewhere, including  on a credit card bill and her council tax and she told us that she had 
incurred overpayments on her benefits around this time which she needed  to repay. Indeed, her bank 
statements show that in February  2017, her energy, water and insurance direct debits were  returned 
unpaid. In addition,  Miss Ps expected monthly income  wasnt guaranteed.
I can see that Miss P struggled almost immediately with the payments, missing the first one - it being 
returned unpaid  in April 2017. Whats more, it seems from SMFLs system  notes, that Miss P 
struggled to meet the required payment under the agreement when unexpected (but common)  
expenses, such as a car repair and a boiler problem,  arose.
Ref: DRN7924352Taking all of this into account and looking  at the overall picture,  Im satisfied that reasonable  and 
proportionate checks and a reasonable assessment  by SMFL,  would more likely than not have shown  
that Miss P would not have been able to make the repayments to this loan without borrowing further 
and/or suffering undue difficulty  and therefore sustainably  maintain the loan. As such, I dont think 
SMFL acted fairly or reasonable when it decided to lend to Miss P in March  2017.
Did SMFL  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
As mentioned  above, it is clear from looking  at the statement of account that Miss P struggled to 
maintain the account from the outset with the initial  payment made  by Miss P on 3 April 2017 returned 
unpaid. The statement of account showed that Miss P missed a good number of the monthly  
payments in the time she had the car. So, Ive looked at how SMFL  treated Miss P as a customer in 
arrears.
I can see from the system notes that Miss P kept in touch with SMFL  letting it know when she 
struggled to make payment and when she would  bring the account back up to date. She also told it 
that she had both employment and health issues.
I can see that SMFL showed  some forbearance in that it allowed Miss P time to bring the account  up 
to date when it fell into arrears and Miss P usually  brought the account back up to date later that 
month or the following  month.
But really this manner  of account  management  wasnt tenable or sustainable for Miss P given her 
circumstances and especially given as I have found above, the agreement  was likely  unaffordable to 
Miss P in the first instance.  By January  2018, she was no longer working and it seems  had been  
frequently unwell, on occasion requiring  hospitalisation,  which Miss P let SMFL  know about.
Looking at the system  notes and how SMFL monitored Miss Ps account, I am not sure that I can see 
evidence of SMFL properly monitoring Miss Ps payment record, in line with its obligations  as set out 
in CONC. There were,  for example, opportunities for SMFL to delve further into Miss Ps financial 
situation, such  as perhaps by conducting a full income  and expenditure  review when she repeatedly 
failed to meet  the payment  on the account. This would  have in turn allowed SMFL to consider how it 
could fairly assist Miss P when she fell into arrears.
There were  additional forbearance options that SMFL might have been able to offer Miss P after a 
more thorough review of her circumstances  such as, for example,  rescheduling some of the arrears, 
allowing a payment  holiday  or an installment  plan,  waiving some  fees, interest or charges or even 
reducing or waiving some of the debt if on assessment that appeared to be appropriate. So, Im not 
satisfied that SMFL acted in Miss Ps best interests in the forbearance measures  it considered  in 
respect of her or that it treated her fairly  and with due consideration as a consumer  who was regularly 
in arrears.
I also have some concerns  about  the fact that Miss P elected to voluntarily  surrender the car as 
opposed to voluntarily terminate the agreement, which would have been around £2,000  cheaper for 
Miss P. However, given my findings on affordability I dont propose to explore that further at this 
stage. But I would remind SMFL of the need to be able to provide consumers such as Miss P with 
sufficient information  in a clear and unambiguous  manner - so as to allow a fully informed  choice 
about exit options available and what they would  likely cost a consumer. This is in line with Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Principles for Business as set out above.
Finally, I note Miss P says that she was led to believe by the credit  broker that she could exit the 
agreement at any point without penalty.  But given  my finding  on affordability and the redress I 
propose, I dont think I need to consider this complaint point further.
Ref: DRN7924352Putting things right
Ideally, where an agreement is unaffordable wed look to put the person in the position as if they 
hadnt entered  into the agreement   so unwind  the agreement and take the car back   refunding  any 
payments made by the consumer and making a deduction for usage. But this isnt always  possible.
Here, SMFL has already  taken back the car from Miss P and brought  the agreement to an end.
In thinking about how to put things right, Ive thought about what Miss P has already paid towards  the 
agreement. As set out above, Miss P handed in her old car and said she was told shed get £200 
which would somehow  be offset towards the new agreement.  We tried to contact the dealership to 
ask it more about this, but it didnt reply.  I have  no reason  to doubt Miss P here, particularly given the 
value she attached to her old car was so low.
Miss P also appears to have  paid about 14 payments under the agreement and post-termination she 
has been paying in monthly amounts to reduce the arrears. I also need to take account of the fact that 
Miss P had fair use of the car for about 19 months.
Taking everything in the round, I think the simplest way to put things right here is to ask SMFL to 
refund everything  that Miss P has paid towards the agreement (including what  she has paid post 
termination of the agreement), less a deduction for usage which I think can be fairly set here at £175 
per month.  In setting what  I think is a fair amount  for usage,  Ive taken into account  the general  cost of 
keeping mobile in a car, the cash price of the car, the monthly amount Miss P paid and the likely  
element of this that reflected  the interest attached  to this loan.
If this results in a refund  to Miss P, I also think  that SMFL should pay 8% interest on any refunded 
amount. It should also remove  any adverse  information from Miss Ps credit file.
In addition to this, and as I have set out above, I think Miss P really  struggled to maintain the 
payments under the loan  dealing as she was with poor health and a period of unemployment.  I think  
SMFL could have done more  to alleviate the stress of that by showing greater forbearance. Instead, it 
exacerbated matters by adding charges to the monthly amount Miss P was already struggling to 
meet. In addition, having ended the agreement I think Miss P has suffered the stress  of having to 
maintain a significant debt while financially  vulnerable  and in ill-health, which she wouldnt have had 
to manage had it not been  for SMFLs mistakes. So, I think SMFL  should pay Miss P £200 to 
compensate for all of this.
My provisional decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint against  Specialist  Motor Finance  Limited 
and tell it to:
-limit Miss Ps liability to £3,325;
-if Miss P hasnt met this liability SMFL should allow Miss P to continue  to pay any 
arrears by way of a reasonable  repayment  plan;
-if Miss P has paid more  than £3,325  including the £200  part-exchange/deposit   
SMFL should refund  anything paid over £3,325 along with 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about the agreement  from Miss Ps credit file;
-pay Miss P £200 in compensation.
If SMFL does  not pay this £200 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days  
of the date on which we tell it Miss P accepts my final decision then it must  also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If SMFL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss P how much its taken off. It should  also give
Ref: DRN7924352Miss P a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I now invite  both parties to provide me with any further comments that they wish me to 
consider by 11 March  2021.
Siobhan Kelly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7924352