K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) gave him incorrect information about how 
his car loan would  be paid off.
Background
Mr C had a car which was water damaged and written off by his insurance company  as a 
total loss. He had outstanding finance on the car that he wanted  paid off from the money  he 
was due to receive.  Mr C said UKI told him on the phone they would settle  the outstanding 
finance by a bank transfer but it was actually settled by cheque. Mr C thinks this caused a 
delay in the car finance company receiving the money meaning they took a direct debit 
payment from his account.  This caused Mr C to become overdrawn and incur bank charges, 
so he complained to UKI. 
UKI didnt  agree. They said theyd told Mr C the outstanding finance would be settled by 
cheque, and the remaining balance  would be transferred to him by bank transfer. They  also 
confirmed sending a cheque was their process  to settle finance agreements.    
Mr C didnt agree as he said UKI hadnt  clearly told him how they would pay the finance 
company. So he asked this service  to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said UKI had told Mr C the loan would  be 
settled with the finance company by cheque.  She also said the cheque had cleared before 
the date requested by the finance company, so a further direct debit payment shouldnt  have 
been taken by the finance company. And that UKI wasnt responsible  for the finance  
company taking the direct debit.
Mr C didnt agree, so the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Mr C feels he was given incorrect information  about how his car finance would be settled 
which caused him a financial  loss. But UKI have provided the call recordings  from when  they 
spoke to Mr C, and Im satisfied the process for settling the loan was explained to him. Ive 
listened to the calls and feel Mr C was told by UKI they would contact  the finance company  
for both the outstanding loan amount, and the date this amount would be valid until.  I also 
feel Mr C was told the loan would be settled by cheque and this would normally be 
dispatched the same day. So I dont agree he was given incorrect information  on how the 
loan would be settled.   
Mr C also complains he was charged an additional  direct debit payment which  caused  him to 
incur charges. But Ive seen UKIs  records which show the cheque cleared before the 
requested settlement date, which meant  a further direct debit payment shouldnt  have  been  
taken. As UKI issued  a cheque for the loan amount  requested  by the finance  company and it 
was cleared before the required  date,  I cant reasonably say UKI caused Mr C to incur a 
financial loss. But if Mr C feels the finance company has caused him a financial loss he can 
make a claim against them. 
Ref: DRN72889662My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288966