K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the sale of his Zurich Assurance Ltd State  Earnings  Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) policy which he took out in 1989. 
Hes also unhappy that Zurich didnt send any correspondence regarding  his plan until 2018.
background
Mr S took out his SERPS policy after meeting with a representative from Allied Dunbar (now 
known as Zurich) in 1989 and took out a SERPS  policy. At the time he was 21 years old, 
employed and earning just under  £7000. 
In 2018, Mr S complained to Zurich about the sale of the plan. His complaint was prompted 
by a letter hed received  form Zurich  about his plan.  He said that he wasnt given any 
information about the plan and the implications  of contracting  out of SERPS  werent 
explained to him. He was also unhappy  because, other than for the letter  that hed recently  
received, he said Zurich hadnt written  to him. 
Zurich reviewed the complaint but it didnt  think the policy  was unsuitable for Mr S at the time 
of the sale. It also said that it had written to him over the years  at the address provided at the 
point of sale. 
Mr S didnt agree with Zurichs conclusions  so he referred his complaint to our service  for 
consideration.
The investigator that reviewed the complaint didnt think  Zurich had done anything  wrong.  In 
summary she felt that the policy hadnt  been  unsuitable for Mr S. And in terms of the lack of 
correspondence over the years  the investigator  felt that, on balance,  had Mr S updated 
Allied Dunbar  or Zurich with his address details over the year, he wouldve received some  
correspondence.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that his issue is that there wasnt any advice or illustrations 
provided during  the sale. And he believes that Zurich had his initial address when it took over 
the plan from Allied Dunbar in 1992. But it failed to contact him informing him that it was now 
managing the plan.  So he wasnt aware  that Zurich  had taken  over and therefore, when he 
moved in 1998,  he wrote  to Allied  Dunbar to update  his address. He considers that Zurich had 
his address all along,  albeit  with or via Allied  Dunbar, but it failed to write  to him until last year. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN72917572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for mostly  the same reasons.  Ill explain  why. 
The sale of the plan
I appreciate that Mr S says that he wasnt given wasnt given any advice or information about  
the implications of contracting out. And he didnt receive an illustration.  I dont  doubt  that this 
is his best recollection  of what happened.  Equally, though,  I cant  ignore that the fact that 
these events happened around  30 years  ago. With the best will in the world,  peoples 
recollections fade with time. The information  Ive seen suggested that Mr S was provided  
with an illustration of the projected benefits  that would be available  from this policy. But its 
difficult to say now with any certainty  what else he was told during the meeting with the 
Zurich representative  in 1989. 
This services approach  in these circumstances is to look at whether the advice to start the 
pension was suitable at the time.  Having  considered  the relevant facts in Mr Ss case, I 
agree with the investigator that in 1989 Mr S met the criteria  for being eligible to contract-out 
of SERPS. 
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract  out of SERPS by way of an 
Appropriate Personal Pension (APP) policy, no advice was given as to which  individuals 
should be advised to remain in SERPS and those for whom it was expected  that contracting 
out would  be beneficial. Pension providers  actuaries carried out comparisons of the 
projected benefits from SERPS with those from the APP policy.  These calculations were  
based on what were  felt to be conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns.  
The rebates  paid by the Government were  set in such  a way that it was more  attractive  for 
younger individuals to contract-out  than those who were older (and who were advised to 
remain in SERPS). The ages, where  the providers  advice as to whether to contract out or 
not changed, were  called pivotal ages.
The main  factors that were used to determine whether someone was likely to be better  off 
contracting out of SERPS were someones age (and therefore  the length  of the period to 
retirement date) and their earnings. Mr S was under the pivotal age at the time that he 
contracted out. Further, his earnings  were  sufficient to offset the effect of the plans charges. 
On the conservative  assumptions used at the time of the advice, it was therefore anticipated 
that hed be better off at retirement having  contracted out of SERPS. 
Accordingly, having carefully  considered all the circumstances at the time, Ive not been 
persuaded that the advice  to contract  out was unsuitable.
Failure to issue correspondence
Mr S says that Zurich  failed to write to him over the years so he was unaware that it had 
taken over as the policy provider  until he received a letter recently.  
Ive thought carefully about this. Zurich  took over from Allied  Dunbar  as the policy  provider in 
1992. And I think its likely  that it wouldve written  to all plan holders to let them  know about 
this change. However, even if this didnt happen,  Im conscious  that Zurich  has been  issuing 
statements to Mr S each year.  
Ref: DRN72917573Although Zurich can no longer provide copies of all of these statements due to the time thats 
passed, I have  seen copies of the illustrations that were included with the statements  since  
2004. And I think that, on balance, its likely  statements were  issued annually whilst the plan 
was held with Allied Dunbar and then after Zurich  took over.  I say this because  pension 
providers had a regulatory obligation to issue annual statements to all plan holders. I do accept  
that from 1998 onwards Mr S may not have  received  these as they were sent to an address that 
he was no longer living at. But I dont think Zurich  can be held accountable for this. 
Mr S clearly  remembered  that he held this pension plan because he says he wrote to Allied 
Dunbar to advise  it of his change of address in 1998  when  he moved. But he didnt receive  
an acknowledgement to his letter, or the subsequent  letters he sent when he moved  again.  It 
doesnt appear that, despite not receiving any correspondence regarding this plan, he 
thought to contact  Allied Dunbar to check that it had received his letters  and had the correct 
contact details for him. Had he done  this, he would  probably have discovered  that Zurich  had 
taken over his plan.
I know Mr S thinks that Zurich had his correct contact details all along  as it wrote to him 
recently at his current address. However,  Zurich has explained  correspondence  issued to 
Mr S in January 2018 was returned so it carried out a trace to obtain Mr Ss new address. 
It didnt do this before as this was the first time that correspondence had been returned. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed but Im not upholding his complaint. I dont  think  the plan 
was unsuitable  for him at the time it was sold. And Im satisfied that the reason he didnt 
receive correspondence is because neither Zurich or Allied Dunbar received notification of 
his change of address.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7291757