K821x#15complaint
Mr S acquired a used  car in March  2017,  by hire purchase over 49 months with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited (RCIFS), trading  as Nissan Finance. He complains that his 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. He wants RCIFS to accept rejection 
of his car.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 September 2020   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld. I thought  it should be upheld  in part.
 
RCIFS agreed with my provisional  decision  but Mr S did not, saying in summary:
RCIFS was responsible for all the cars problems, which were themselves inter-linked
The main engine  system repair was not carried out satisfactorily
The car continued to be unreliable and to develop problems, including an electrical  
problem that impeded  its use
He sold (traded in) the car because of its unreliability
He feels that my provisional  decision was influenced by this sale 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I sympathise with Mr S, and it is clear from the information he has provided  that his car has 
turned out to be unreliable. RCIFS and the supply dealership  could both be considered  
responsible for the cars quality, but the extent of RCIFSs responsibility  is limited to matters  
present or developing at the point  of supply.  
The question I need to answer  is: are all, some or none of the problems Mr S experienced 
with his car within the bounds of RCIFSs responsibilities?  
The main  engine system was still under warranty when it required replacement.  And, in my 
provisional decision, I was able to find that this matter was within these bounds  and RCIFS 
has accepted  my finding.
But the engine  cooling system was not under warranty  when its repairs  were required.  Mr S 
asserts that the two sets of problems are interlinked,  and he wanted to reject the car. RCIFS 
was unwilling to accept  rejection, and so Mr S needed to demonstrate that the matter was 
within the bounds  of RCIFSs responsibilities.  
Mr S has not demonstrated the correctness of his assertion. And so I remain unable to find 
against RCIFS in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN79764612I noted in my provisional decision  that Mr Ss car had been  sold. I did so, because my 
settlement recommendation would have been affected by this sale, if I had provisionally  
upheld his complaint in full. But my provisional decision to uphold only in part was not 
influenced by this sale  although I was influenced  by the cars  successful MOT  test in 
July 2020, and the mileage it had travelled.   
And so, having reconsidered, I conclude that my provisional decision and settlement 
recommendations were  (on balance) correct.     
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order RCI Financial Services Limited:
1.To refund the engine system replacement labour cost contribution made by Mr S (as 
offered by RCIFS in settlement of this complaint)
2.To pay compensation of £250  for distress and inconvenience directly to Mr S
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN79764613COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
1 September 2020
complaint
Mr S acquired  a used car in March 2017, by hire purchase over 49 months with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCIFS), trading as Nissan  Finance.  He complains that his car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He wants RCIFS to accept rejection of his car.
  
background
Mr Ss car was 36 months old and had travelled just under 19,000 miles, when  he acquired it. His car 
appears to have been  successfully serviced  and passed  its MOT  test in March 2018, having travelled  
just under 9,000 further miles.  
Mr Ss car had its next annual  service  in early March 2019, at a manufacturer  approved main  
dealership. The car and again passed  it MOT test, having travelled a little under 7,000 further miles. 
The car had a five-year engine warranty which expired in late March  2019.
Mr S said:
Shortly after the March 2019 service, his cars engine  started  exhibiting a rattling  noise
His car was returned in mid-March 2019  to the dealer  that had recently serviced his car  he 
was told that an engine system replacement  was needed  
His car was returned to the same dealer in early  April 2019, for further inspection  he was 
told that the manufacturer  would pay for 25% of the parts involved in this replacement
He complained, explaining that the need for replacement had been identified before  his 
engine warranty expired 
The Manufacturer agreed in mid-May 2019 to pay for all the parts, and the dealer later agreed to pay 
for 50% of the labour costs   but Mr S was still asked to pay the remaining 50% (£400). He referred 
his complaint to us in late May 2019. He initially  wanted  RCIFS  either to pay the full costs of the 
repair, or to accept rejection of his car.
The car was repaired (by the same dealer)  in mid-July 2019, with a 50% labour costs contribution 
from Mr S. The engine  that was replaced  had travelled about 35,000 miles. 
Mr S said:
The repair  was not completed properly,  and the car was returned to the dealer in early  August 
2019 for further work to be undertaken
The car was again returned in mid-August 2019, when  he reported excessive engine  noise
In early September 2019, his cars  engine cooling system malfunctioned  it was recovered to 
the dealer, and the fault was diagnosed
He was told that replacement  of a cooling system component was required
He decided, in the light of these continuing problems,  that he was no longer  willing to accept  
further repairs   instead,  he wanted  to reject the car
He had been without  his car for several weeks (although a courtesy car had been provided  to 
him for most of this time)
RCIFS has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding  to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances,  which for cars include age and 
mileage travelled. But there are limits to RCIFSs responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present 
or developing at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN79764614Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld:
He felt that, in the circumstances, it was fair for Mr Ss car to be rejected
He said that satisfactory quality included reasonable  durability, and he did not consider 
reasonably durable  an engine  system that failed after only 35,000 miles
He also recommended  that RCIFS should refund  the engine system replacement labour cost 
contribution made  by Mr S 
Our investigator felt as well that Mr S should be compensated for the significant  distress and 
inconvenience, which he had experienced. Our investigator recommended that RCIFS should  pay 
compensation of £250 to Mr S.
RCIFS disagreed  with our investigator, saying:
Mr S acquired a three-year old car, which  was nearly  five years old when its engine system  
failed  it was unable to see how rejection could apply to a car of this age
The engine  coolant repairs  system repairs were completed  in early November 2019, and the 
dealer had not subsequently been contacted by Mr S
But it was willing to settle this complaint by refunding the engine system  replacement labour  
cost contribution, made by Mr S
Mr S was unwilling  to accept  RCIFSs settlement offer. And so this complaint was referred for review 
by an ombudsman.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
RCIFS is responsible  for the quality of goods  at the point of supply. What constitutes reasonable  
quality (at the point of supply)  is influenced  in cars by their age and mileage  travelled.  Cars are 
affected by normal wear and tear, but some parts of a vehicle  are expected to be more durable than 
others. 
engine system
I agree with our investigator  that the engine of a car that has been regularly serviced  at manufacturer  
approved dealers, at the intervals advised by the manufacturer, should not fail after only 35,000 miles.  
And I understand that Mr Ss car has been properly looked after in this way. 
So, on balance,  I agree with our investigator that a fault was inherent or developing in the cars engine  
system at the point of supply, which caused this system  to fail prematurely.  In these  circumstances, 
RCIFS has a responsibility  for the fault and appropriate remedies could  be repair, replacement  or 
rejection. In my view,  the most appropriate  and proportionate remedy was repair  (at no cost to Mr S)  
and rejection should have been considered  only if repair  turned out to be unsuccessful.
Mr S has subsequently sold his car, after it passed its MOT test in July 2020, having travelled just 
over 40,000 miles. This, together  with other evidence, indicates  that the cars repair  at 35,000  miles 
has turned  out to be successful. 
I also agree with our investigator that RCIFS should refund the engine system  replacement labour 
cost contribution made by Mr S  because RCIFS has a responsibility for the fault, and the repair 
should be undertaken  at no cost to Mr S.  
I agree as well with our investigator that Mr S should  be compensated  for the significant distress  and 
inconvenience, which he had experienced. There are technical notes  about distress and 
inconvenience on our public website, in which we describe:
Ref: DRN79764615how we decide whether  to award  compensation for distress,  inconvenience, trouble, upset, 
damage to reputation,  pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where  compensation is appropriate
cases where we have  awarded compensation
I feel that compensation of £250 in this instance (as recommended by our investigator) is appropriate, 
given the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. It is consistent with our approach to awarding 
compensation, and with those case descriptions  and awards.
engine cooling system
I acknowledge that Mr Ss car was serviced in March 2019, and that it underwent engine  system 
replacement works in July 2019. But I am unable  to agree  that the September  2019 engine  cooling 
system failure  was necessarily caused by a point  of supply fault. My view is that the cooling system  is 
more vulnerable to damage, or to normal wear and tear, than the main  engine  system. 
I have no definite view about whether  the system failure was or was not caused by a point of supply 
fault. But the onus is on Mr S to demonstrate that such a fault was developing at the point of supply, 
and I have seen no such evidence. So, on balance, I am unable to conclude that the cause of this 
fault was other  than either damage after the point of supply,  or normal wear and tear - which means  I 
am unable  to find that RCIFS  has responsibility for this fault. 
summary
I have concluded, on balance, that causes  of the cars  engine system problem were present or 
developing at the point  of supply  and so this problem  is within the bounds  of RCIFSs responsibility.  
The most appropriate  response  was repairing  the car, which has been  undertaken successfully.  That 
repair should have been undertaken at no cost to Mr S, who should also receive compensation  for 
distress and inconvenience. 
I have been unable to conclude  that causes of the cars engine cooling system problem  were  present 
or developing at the point of supply. And so, on balance, I am unable to find that this problem is within 
the bounds of RCIFSs  responsibility  which means I do not agree  that Mr Ss car should  be rejected. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
S or RCI Financial Services Limited (RCIFS) by 1 October 2020,  my provisional decision  is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendations are that RCIFS should:
Refund the engine system  replacement labour cost contribution made by Mr S (as offered by 
RCIFS in settlement of this complaint)
Pay compensation  of £250 for distress and inconvenience directly  to Mr S
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7976461