K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about irresponsible lending. He says that Advantage Finance Ltd provided 
him with a hire purchase agreement, to acquire a vehicle, without making  adequate  checks 
that he could afford  the repayments. He wants it to allow him to sell the vehicle privately and 
for a payment  arrangement to be put in place to repay any remaining debt.
background
Mr C tells us that he took out the hire purchase  agreement in July 2017. He doesnt think 
sufficient checks were  made regarding his ability  to make the repayments. At the time he 
says he already had two outstanding loans for vehicles and was paying £600 per month rent. 
He states he was only asked for a wage slip, along  with proof of identity and his employers 
details. He says hes now run into financial difficulties and hasnt been  able to afford  the 
repayments and this has had a serious effect  on his health. Mr C says hes asked Advantage 
to allow  him to sell the vehicle privately - but its refused. He feels  an auction sale will only 
recover a lesser proportion of the outstanding  debt.
Advantage told us it had made financial and affordability checks.  And it was satisfied Mr C 
understood his obligations. It said it had been only after six months that Mr Cs direct debit 
payments had first failed.  It said it had tried to offer Mr C assistance including making  a 
payment arrangement and an option  to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement.  But it felt 
Mr C didnt want to accept  the VT option  as he didnt want to pay any shortfall. It said the 
agreement had now been terminated  as Mr C hadnt  made  any payments since May 2018. 
And it was taking steps to recover the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 September  2019. I said that whilst  I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint I thought Mr C should pay for the use hes had of the 
vehicle. And that Advantage  was entitled to recover the vehicle  and dispose  of it as they saw 
fit. 
Since then both parties have replied. Advantage said that whilst  it didnt agree the loan had 
been unaffordable it was prepared, subject to the return of the vehicle, to accept the 
provisional decision. Mr C said he still thought  he should be able to sell the vehicle privately.
I thank both parties for their replies  and Ill deal with the points  raised in my final decision 
which is set out below. But for the reasons Ill explain Im still of the view the loan was 
unaffordable and so I shant be changing my provisional view in that respect. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr C has found himself in financial difficulty. Thats never an easy situation to 
deal with and I can see that Mr Cs financial situation has seemingly become more  
problematic since this agreement was taken out. This seems to have had an adverse  effect  
on his health and I appreciate the stress and worry that hes experienced.
Ref: DRN75115182Although Mr C brought this complaint primarily about irresponsible lending - he felt the 
financial checks made by Advantage  before it granted him the loan werent adequate - I 
have to look at all the circumstances. And this means not only considering if the checks were 
sufficient but also whether  the information they revealed showed the proposed loan to be 
affordable and sustainable.  Its also important  to emphasise that my decision is based on the 
information which was known to Advantage - or which ought reasonably to have been known 
- at the time the loan was made.  Its not based on whats happened since.
Before making a loan,  wed expect a business to make checks  which were sufficient and 
proportionate to factors including - but not limited  to - the amount of the loan and the level of 
monthly payments.  This is to enable  it to reasonably decide whether to make  a customer a 
loan and to assess  the amount which the customer is able to sustainably  repay. Theres  no 
set list of requirements that have to be checked  - its for a business to decide what 
information it requires.  But typically checks  would include  seeking information about  income 
and expenditure  and possibly credit reference  agency  checks (CRA).
Mr C was seeking a loan to acquire a vehicle which required a monthly repayment of 
£387.50 per month for three and a half years. I can see Advantage made enquires and these 
included a check on income and outgoings and a CRA check.  I think these checks  were  
adequate and sufficient to enable  the lending decision to be properly made.
But having  obtained this information I question whether Advantage should then have gone 
on to make the loan.  Advantage said it had made  an affordability  calculation which it said 
took into account other household bills as well as the payment for the new agreement.  It 
accepted that some  of the figures  it used were  estimated. It said this showed Mr C could  
afford his reasonable monthly outgoings  as well as the new payment. The information  on 
which Advantage relied showed that Mr C had a net monthly income  of about £1,870.  
Advantages affordability calculator indicated  his total monthly outgoings  were  approximately 
£1,483.
But the credit reference  checks  showed  Mr C already  had two existing loans  for vehicles - 
taken out within the previous year - where payments amounted  to £616 (Advantage had 
allowed only £546). And hed also got several other  lines of running credit, amounting  in total 
to more than £2,000.  Some of these accounts  were at or beyond  their credit limit. I also saw 
evidence from the CRA  of an apparently  unsettled County Court  Judgment for over £1,300  
and a recently settled  default.
Im not sure why Advantage used an estimated figure for existing  loans when actual figures 
were available. But the information  it had available was sufficient to show  that - if the loan 
was made  - Mr C had obligations of £1,003 per month in relation to finance loans on three  
vehicles. When the household expenses, for which Advantage made  allowance,  are taken 
into account the total of his outgoings exceeded  the net income on which this loan was 
based. Taken together, I think this information  shows this loan was probably not affordable.
Im aware that Advantage has said there  were other adults within  the household who could 
be expected to contribute towards  expenses.  But Im not aware of their circumstances or 
what, if anything,  they were contributing. Nor can I see that Advantage had any direct  
information about this.
Ref: DRN75115183And I cant say the fact that Mr C managed to pay the first six instalments is necessarily a 
reliable indication he could afford  it. Many  people who get into financial difficulties are adept, 
at least for a short period, of adjusting payments between different creditors. But that doesnt 
alter the basic unaffordability of a loan.  And whilst unaffordability is judged at the time a loan 
is made, I note that Mr Cs credit file indicates hes also defaulted on other accounts since  
this loan was taken out.
I accept that Mr C had a responsibility  to manage  his own finances - and theres evidence 
that he accepts  he finds it hard to resist  a vehicle  he takes a liking to. But its for a business  
to ensure that - regardless of how keen a customer might be to proceed - the
affordability of a loan is properly  assessed.
As Im satisfied the agreement was unaffordable  its logical  that the starting point of any 
settlement should  be the return of the vehicle. But its fair and reasonable that Mr C should 
pay for the use hes had of the vehicle.
That leaves the issue of on what terms the agreement should be settled.
Normally, if a vehicle is repossessed owing to non-payment the vehicle would be sold and 
any shortfall in the total agreement price would  be the responsibility of the consumer. But 
where a loan is found to be unaffordable that wouldnt be fair and reasonable. It would mean  
that in this case Mr C would pay the full price for a vehicle he couldnt  afford  and would have 
to return.
Mr C has stated that the vehicle hasnt been  used for a considerable period and since  its 
been in his possession it looks as if less than 6,000 miles has been  covered. He provided 
information that the current  mileage is about  115,000 miles. That probably equates to around 
six to nine months of average use.
Paying for that period mightve been a fair basis for settlement  if Mr C had allowed the 
vehicle to be returned at this point.  But I dont think it would  be fair now simply to say he 
should pay for the usage on this basis alone.
I think I should take into account  that Mr C declined to return  the vehicle on more than one 
occasion. And in doing so he deprived  Advantage of the chance to resell  it - assuming that 
was its chosen  option. Mr Cs actions have meant that even though  he only appears  to have 
driven around 6,000 miles hes nevertheless  had the car for about  two and a half years.  And 
it seems Mr C wasnt reliant on this vehicle to get around as he had access to more than one 
car.
Our investigator had the vehicle valued using a recognised industry price guide and the 
current estimated retail sale value is probably  around £7,000  - although I accept Advantage 
is not a vehicle retailer.
Mr C has to date paid £3,709.30 towards the agreement.  By coincidence  this figure also 
approximates to the anticipated  reduction  in retail  value. Bearing in mind the entire 
circumstances that seems to me a fair outcome, given I think  both parties should bear some 
responsibility.
I think a fair and reasonable settlement would be to treat the sums paid to date as being in 
full and final settlement  of the agreement. This would not affect other charges - if any - 
arising upon termination such as damage  beyond fair wear and tear.
Ref: DRN75115184Its clear the relationship  between Mr C and Advantage  has broken down but its essential in 
my view that he co-operates with the immediate recovery of the vehicle. So Id intend to 
make my decision  contingent on this.
Mr C has indicated to me that he will cooperate with the immediate return of the vehicle 
following the issue of this decision.  So Id hope  there would be no further problem in this 
respect.  But if he were not to accept this decision then that would bring the involvement  of 
this service to an end. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Advantage Finance Ltd to take the 
following action:
Subject to Mr C returning the vehicle or allowing it to be collected, within fourteen days  of the 
issue of this decision:
1.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr C;
2.Treat the £3,709.30  paid to date by Mr C as full settlement of the agreement. 
Charges arising  at termination - if any - including for damage beyond  fair wear and 
tear are not included in this figure;
3.Arrange for details  of the agreement to be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7511518