K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited  mis-led her about what was covered under  
her private health insurance policy. She wants  it to pay the full medical costs of her 
treatment.
background
Miss H is the beneficiary of a BUPA group private medical insurance scheme taken  out by 
her employer. She was referred by her doctor  to have a 24 hour test, and called BUPA to get 
it pre-authorised. Mrs M said that there  was some confusion about  the correct  codes, and 
Mrs M thought that it was best to go ahead  as she believed that there were two pots of 
money which would cover the fees either way. What Mrs M meant by this was that there 
were two parts of the policy with different amount of maximum available benefits; the smaller 
pot was in respect of out-patient consultations, treatments and tests. But Mrs M was later 
asked to pay the shortfall in the medical costs as BUPA  didnt pay the full amount. 
Mrs M complained to BUPA, saying she had enough money to cover all the costs  under the 
policy, and had checked this. It said that Mrs M had used all of the available  money for out-
patient treatment,  which  had a cap of £1,500. BUPA said Mrs M called about an out-patient  
24 hour test and was told if the cost of the test (together with any pre-operative  tests and 
follow up consultation)  was above  £338.74, shed have to pay the shortfall as it came out of 
the out-patient  allowance.  It also said shed  had been told that the hospital and surgeon fee 
would be paid in full.
BUPA pointed out that the 24 hour test cost £744,  and this invoice was received after Mrs M 
called again to check how much of her out-patient benefit was remaining; this meant she 
was given information which was correct at the time. Another out-patient invoice was later 
received and also had to be paid by Mrs M. BUPA was adamant  that Mrs M had been  told 
the 24 hour test was subject to the out-patient  allowance  and shed  have to pay any shortfall.
Mrs M complained to us. She said that if shed known  there was no more money available,  
shed have delayed  the tests until the next policy year.  The investigators view was that 
BUPA wasnt at fault. He noted that the policy stated  clearly that the maximum available 
benefit for out-patient tests, consultations and treatment was £1,500. The investigator  said 
hed listened to the calls between Mrs M and BUPA and Mrs M was told that the 24 hour test 
was part of the out-patient allowance (and that the hospital and surgeon  fees would be 
covered in full). He pointed out that Mrs M was told if there was a shortfall,  shed have to pay 
it, and this would also apply to any pre-operative tests and follow up consultations. The 
investigator didnt  think  Mrs M had been mis-led  or mis-advised.
Mrs M disagreed. She said she wasnt given  the costs of the tests  by BUPA and it shouldnt 
have allowed her to exceed the maximum available benefit. Mrs M also said that BUPA had 
told her that the 24 test was covered by the larger  surgical allowance. The investigator didnt 
change his view and explained that BUPA couldnt predict the costs of tests  and had to wait 
for invoices  to be received to know if the limit had been reached. He said that it was the 
policyholders responsibility to monitor  the medical costs  and noted  that Mrs M was 
specifically told that the 24 hour test was under the out-patients allowance  (unlike  the 
hospital and surgery  fees).  
Ref: DRN76641572Mrs M said the doctors treating her didnt  know the costs of tests either so it was 
unreasonable to expect  her to monitor the spending.  She didnt accept the hospital fees and 
surgeon fees had been taken from the larger  surgical allowance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold the complaint, and 
will explain  why below.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. The policy is clear 
that the maximum benefit allowance for out-patient issues  is £1,500. Mrs M accepts this and 
that she was aware of the limit. Her point is that the 24 hour test shouldnt  have been put 
under this heading, and that she feels BUPA mis-led her when she called and shouldve  
warned her about  the costs.
Having looked  at the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that the 24 hour test fell under 
the out-patient  allowance.  Its a test undertaken by an out-patient (though surgical action is 
required to fit it, which is covered by the surgical allowance). The cost of the 24 hour test 
alone was £744. The cost didnt  include  the hospital or surgery fee. As Mrs M only had 
£338.74 left under the maximum available benefit  for out-patient  items,  there  was a shortfall.
Mrs M says its unreasonable  to expect her to pay the shortfall, despite the warnings BUPA 
gave her that shed  have  to pay any shortfall. But BUPA cant  assess the costs of medical 
treatment or tests yet to be carried out; even Mrs M accepts the treating doctors dont  have 
this information  and theyre medically qualified. Until the test is carried  out and an invoice is 
received, BUPA doesnt know the cost. This is why the onus is on the policyholder to monitor 
costs, and contact the relevant department of the hospital if necessary.
Ive listened to the calls which are central  to this complaint. I dont agree with Mrs Ms 
interpretation of what she was told by BUPA. She was told the 24 hour test was an out-
patient cost. The wording she quotes in her response to this service  doesnt undermine this 
finding  the yeah  was an acknowledgement of her questions. Mrs M is clearly told that the 
hospital and surgical fees are covered in full and the 24 hour test (and related out-patient  
matters) is subject to the £1,500 cap. The entire  conversation, once listened  to in full, 
confirms this.
Mrs M says BUPA mis-led her about how much was left of the out-patient  allowance.  I 
disagree. BUPA could  only confirm what was left before receiving invoices. Mrs M knew  
shed incurred further costs but the amount she was quoted didnt change.  This wasnt  
incorrect as until the invoices were received, BUPA didnt know  the costs.  The invoices were 
received after Mrs Ms calls.
Ref: DRN76641573my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664157