K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss L say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S and Miss L bought the policy  in 2006  sometime after taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £482.59 a month towards  Mr S and Miss Ls 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £49.00 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a manager.  He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick or redundancy  pay. He said he had other  insurance that wouldve paid out if he was 
unable to work long-term. Mr S has said he was treated  for an injury in 2001. 
We asked for further information about  Mr Ss other  insurance and about the injury he 
suffered, so we could  understand  how this may have  affected the suitability of the PPI. But 
no further information was provided. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2005. 
Mr S and Miss Ls representative  has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr S and Miss Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S and Miss L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S and 
Miss Ls representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr S and Miss L about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and Miss L and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN77264192The information Mr S and Miss L received  was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S and Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S and Miss Ls. I dont intend  to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Miss Ls 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN77264193In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr S and Miss Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr S and Miss L with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr S and Miss L sufficient,  appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN77264194misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S 
and Miss L, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr S and Miss 
L suffered loss or damage and what I consider would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and Miss L 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Miss Ls complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr S and Miss L know  they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr S and Miss L had the mortgage for some time before they were  sold the PPI. They 
completed an application form specifically for the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr S and Miss L knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr S and Miss L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S and Miss L. It seems Mr S and Miss L cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr S and Miss Ls financial circumstances, but there is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr S would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Mr S 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr S and Miss L given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S and Miss L, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN77264195-Mr S and Miss L had a need  for the policy  Mr S would not have received any sick 
pay if he was unable  to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits  are likely to be 
limited and they didnt  have  any savings  they could fall back  on. While  they say they 
had another insurance  policy intended to pay out if he couldnt work for an extended 
period, I dont have  sufficient information about  this to say it made the PPI unsuitable. 
So, it appears likely that the policy would have  helped Mr S and Miss L manage the 
consequences if Mr S was unable to work.
-Although Mr S and Miss L says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S and Miss L. 
There was nothing  about Mr S and Miss Ls employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions,  
Mr S has told us about an injury he suffered in 2001. But hes not provided  any 
further information to suggest that it caused  any ongoing issues  between  then and 
the time of sale. Claims relating to this injury wouldnt have been excluded  if hed 
been symptom  free and not consulted  a doctor  about it for 24 months at the time of 
claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr S be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr S and Miss Ls 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr S and Miss L be unable to make  
the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr S and Miss L sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S and Miss L were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr S were  unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr S and 
Miss L would  have taken  out the policy without any sense of what  the policy  was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr S and Miss L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S and Miss L Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr S and Miss L all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN77264196Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S and Miss Ls representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S and 
Miss Ls. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S and Miss Ls representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S and Miss L about  the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S and Miss Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr S and Miss L have  suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr S and Miss L? To what extent  did 
Mr S and Miss L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr S and 
Miss L. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr S and Miss L suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr S and Miss L would have  still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr S and Miss L, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S and Miss L have  suffered  
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Lloyds had explained things 
properly, Mr S and Miss L would  have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr S and Miss L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN77264197weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S and Miss L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr S and Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S and Miss L knew they would have  to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr S and Miss L applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr S and Miss L 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds at the time or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S and Miss L would have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr S and Miss L would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr S and 
Miss Ls expectations about what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount  
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S and Miss L thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded for the first 24 months  claims  relating to medical conditions and 
symptoms that Mr S knew about  or ought to have known  about  before the start date 
of the policy   but wouldve paid out in relation to these if hed been symptom  free 
and not consulted a doctor for 24 months  prior to the claim; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
his own job or any similar gainful occupation which  the insurer thought  he was, or 
may reasonably  become, qualified for in view of his training, education and ability;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S and Miss L pause  for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
Ref: DRN77264198some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S and Miss L from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr S and Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
persuade me that Mr S wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr S 
doesnt appear to have  had any ongoing medical  conditions at the time of sale and was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr S and Miss L 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr S and Miss L had known they could only claim for disability if Mr S was unable to do 
both his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr S was unable (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr S and Miss L that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month. This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for  but 
based on the information available to me I cant  say that they had any other means to fall 
back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S and Miss L would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr S be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S and Miss L would still have taken  out the policy.  The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr S was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S and Miss L would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr S and Miss Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN77264199the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S and Miss L would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr S and Miss 
Ls circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr S 
and Miss L found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr S and Miss L believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S and Miss L in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr S and Miss L compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S and Miss L think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr S and Miss L, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr S and Miss Ls representative says a court  might 
take if it were to find Lloyds negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr S and Miss L and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S and Miss L in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN772641910my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7726419