K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Yorkshire  Building Society  (trading  as Chelsea Building Society)  
mis-sold them regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out in 2004 and 2007 in 
connection with mortgages that Mr and Mrs N arranged. The policies covered Mr N if he 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think Chelsea Building Society recommended  the 
policies to Mr and Mrs N, so the key question I need  to consider is:
- Did Chelsea  Building Society give Mr and Mrs N information that was clear,  fair and 
not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed 
choice about  the insurance they were  buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs N are worse  
off as a result. That is, would they have  done something different  such as not taking out 
the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs N say PPI didnt  seem  to be a priority when their borrowing was arranged,  and 
that they werent given much information  about the policies  when  they were  sold by Chelsea 
Building Society.
Ive noted that in connection with the 2004 mortgage, Mr N completed a separate  PPI 
application to take the cover.  It seems part of the application included deciding  the level of 
cover Mr N wanted to take.  Mr N initially chose to take cover  for unemployment only, but 
Chelsea Building Society has provided  notes of a subsequent  phone  call where he asked for 
the cover  to be changed to accident  and sickness  only.
So from what Ive seen,  I think Chelsea Building Society made  Mr and Mrs N aware  that the 
2004 PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
The 2007  mortgage application form said:
Please fully consider the importance of protecting your mortgage payments before ticking 
one of the boxes below:
Ref: DRN71922562Mr and Mrs N then had a choice about  whether to arrange PPI through  Chelsea Building 
Society, arrange their own cover  or not to protect their payments  at all. Mr and Mrs N ticked  
the box to say that they wanted  to arrange  the cover through Chelsea Building Society.
Chelsea Building Society then carried out a phone application with Mr N. Again, he had to 
choose the level of cover he wanted and decided to take PPI for accident and sickness only.
The evidence suggests to me that Chelsea Building Society  made Mr and Mrs N aware that 
the 2007 PPI was optional  and they chose  to take it out.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policies  was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs N before 
they agreed to buy them.  So Ive thought about whether clearer cost information wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs Ns decision to go ahead  with the cover.
Mr and Mrs N had chosen to take out the policies, knowing they would  have to pay 
something for them. The policies were competitively  priced and apparently affordable.
Mr N has also said he wouldve received  sick pay from his employer if he was off work 
because of accident or sickness.  But the policies wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ns 
employer benefits,  and wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs N to use the occupational sick pay to 
pay for other  expenses.
So on balance, I think Mr and Mrs N wouldve had some use for the policies if Mr N couldnt  
work because of accident or sickness. That means I think  its unlikely they would have made 
a different decision about buying the policies if better information  about the cost had been 
provided.
Mr N satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policies when taking them out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the conditions  limiting the 
policies main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people  with pre-
existing medical conditions).
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs N agreed  to take out the cover (knowing they didnt have to). 
And given  the policies  provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to 
them, I dont think they would have made a different decision (and decided  against taking the 
policies out) if they had been  better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192256