K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the role Howard Taylor  Associates (HTA) played in the transfer of 
two of his pensions  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  in 2012. His pension was 
subsequently invested in an illiquid and speculative UK land scheme. Mr B says he was 
badly advised  by HTA.
background
Mr B was introduced to the land venture by Falcon International Estates Ltd (Falcon). It 
completed a fact find (which was signed  by Mr B on 27 January 2012) and a questionnaire 
(most likely  an attitude-to-risk  questionnaire) with Mr B. These were then forwarded on to 
HTA on 21 February in order for HTA to facilitate Mr B using his pensions  to invest in the 
land venture. Mr B had two pensions; one a final salary  occupational scheme,  the other a 
personal pension.  
On 21 February, HTA signed a declaration  to say it was satisfied Mr B could  be treated as 
an elective professional client. Further information  about Mr Bs pensions  was forwarded on 
to HTA by Falcon on 30 March. HTA wrote  to Mr B on 17 April 2012  to say he was acting on 
an execution-only basis. It asked him to sign a declaration to say he had received no advice, 
which he did on 4 May 2012. On the same day, he also signed application forms to open  his 
SIPP and transfer  his pensions.  
Mr Bs occupational scheme  benefits were valued  at £14,954. His personal pension was 
valued at £5,179. The SIPP was opened,  the pensions  transferred and £15,000  was 
invested in the land venture. 
In 2016, Mr Bs SIPP provider wrote  to him to say it would no longer be acting as the SIPPs  
administrator. It gave Mr B two options   to transfer to the default option of a Mattioli  Woods  
SIPP or to transfer  to a different SIPP. Mr Bs SIPP transferred to the Mattioli Woods SIPP. 
In 2017, Mr Bs representative requested  information and documents from the business 
about the transaction. In response HTA said Howard  Taylor  Associates Limited  (the 
business Mr Bs representative had requested information from but which is a separate legal 
entity to HTA) had never dealt with Mr B. Mr B referred his complaint  to us. He says he was 
badly advised  to transfer his pensions and invest in the land venture.  In its submissions to 
us, HTA said that it hadnt previously  responded to Mr Bs information request because  it 
had been made to a legal entity that had never dealt with Mr B. It went on to say that it 
hadnt done anything wrong  because it hadnt  advised Mr B and that it had facilitated the 
transaction on an execution-only basis. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. He said, in brief, that HTA had advised Mr B and 
that its advice was unsuitable. And he held HTA responsible  for all the losses Mr B may 
have suffered. HTA asked  for an ombudsman to decide on the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I explain why below.
Ref: DRN72435612Was Mr B a professional client?
HTA categorised Mr B as an elective  professional  client.  This is important here because 
professional clients  can lose some protections, including the right to bring complaints  to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  However,  in my view, HTA has fallen short of what was 
required under  the rules  regarding the categorisation  of professional  clients. 
COBS 3.5.3 states the following:
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional  client  if it complies with (1) and (3) and,
where applicable, (2):
(1) The firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own investment 
decisions and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test);
(2) in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous  four quarters;
(b) the size of the clients financial instrument  portfolio, defined as including  cash  
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds  EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked  in the financial sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions  or services 
envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3) The following procedure is followed:
(a) The client must state in writing  to the firm that it wishes  to be treated as a 
professional client  either  generally or in respect  of a particular service or transaction or 
type of transaction or product;
(b) The firm must give the client a clear written  warning of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights the client may lose;  and
(c) The client  must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
HTA completed an assessment of Mr Bs investment holdings and experience and 
concluded from this that he could be classified  as an elective  professional client.  I have  
some doubts  about this assessment. Im not convinced Mr Bs investment in gold and 
collection of old bank  notes  both of which were  relatively modest  and his unspecified 
number of shares in his former employer purchased through a share incentive scheme 
necessarily gave him the experience required of a professional client. Similarly, I dont think 
the fact that he had applied for planning  permission to extend his home  necessarily 
conferred on him expertise of the type of land venture he was intending to buy into. And 
Ref: DRN72435613whilst I note that Mr B apparently said he was an experienced investor in the fact-find and in 
telephone calls, there is little corroborating evidence to support this.     
However, even if I assume  Mr B did have the requisite experience, knowledge and track 
record to pass the qualitative and quantitative tests, HTA would  have still fallen short of its 
regulatory requirements because theres  no evidence  of Mr B ever having written  to HTA to 
confirm he wanted  to be treated as a professional client or of HTA having  warned Mr B of the 
potential consequences  of being  categorised in this way or of Mr B having  confirmed his 
understanding of those  consequences.  
As HTA fell short  in several areas   of the requirements of COBS  3.5.3, I will treat Mr B as 
a retail client.
Was the transaction on an execution-only basis?
HTA says it facilitated the transaction on an execution-only basis.  It says Mr B signed  
declarations to confirm  this and when it wrote to Mr B on 17 April 2012, the letter began with 
the following  paragraph: 
Thank you for your instructions to arrange asipp which we have accepted on the clear 
understanding that we are acting at your explicit request and have not made  any 
recommendation as to the suitability of the contract for your particular needs.
However, the letter went on to say:
From what we know about  the product, and from the amount that we know  about  your 
personal circumstances, there  is nothing  that would make us attempt  to dissuade you from 
proceeding with this transaction as it appears to be appropriate to your experience and 
knowledge of the risks involved. 
Given this, I fail to see how the letter can be seen as anything  other  than a recommendation 
to transfer. It says HTA had taken  into consideration the product  and Mr Bs circumstances  
information that it had to hand through the fact-find. It then concluded that there was 
nothing that would make HTA attempt to dissuade Mr B from proceeding. Im satisfied 
Mr B would have read this as a recommendation to transfer and invest in the land venture.
In certain situations,  a firm is required to assess the appropriateness of a product or service  
for a client  even in an execution-only transaction. So it could be argued that this is what  HTA 
was doing  checking the execution-only transaction was appropriate for Mr B rather  than 
assessing the transactions suitability. However, for similar reasons as given previously, I 
dont think Mr Bs knowledge and experience would have made the transaction appropriate. 
And even  if it had been, the rules would  have still required  HTA to have steered clear of 
making a personal  recommendation  which, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied it didnt 
do here.    
I recognise Mr B signed declarations to say he hadnt received advice and that parts of the 
17 April letter said much the same  thing. But I think all this is undermined  because  Mr B only 
signed to say no advice had been  given after HTA had told him it saw no reason  to dissuade 
Mr B from continuing. It strikes me that HTA is trying to have the best of both worlds here in 
encouraging the transaction  whilst simultaneously saying it wasnt offering  advice.  HTA isnt 
allowed to blur the boundaries between advice and execution-only  in this way. 
Ref: DRN72435614Furthermore, in Mr Bs application  form to invest in the land venture, HTA confirmed that it 
had given advice  when it signed the following declaration:
I/We have reviewed this application  for a land purchase and confirm  that the investment is
suitable for the applicants circumstances and attitude to risk
In short,  Im satisfied Mr B was advised to transfer. HTA therefore had a duty to ensure its 
advice was suitable.
Was the advice  suitable?
The transfer from Mr Bs occupational  scheme
A high proportion of Mr Bs transferred funds were from his final salary occupational pension  
scheme. I see no reason  why giving up the valuable  guarantees from this scheme in favour 
of a SIPP would have been  suitable  for Mr B. He wasnt recorded  as being in ill health and 
didnt appear to have had a need for the flexibility in taking  benefits  both reasons why 
transferring to a SIPP may have been  suitable. And the fixed  costs that typically  apply  in 
SIPPs often make them uneconomic for smaller transfer values such as the one here. 
The only potential real reason I can see for why the transfer could have been suitable would 
have been if the proposed underlying investment had been suitable.  But that doesnt apply 
here either. Mr Bs pension funds were being transferred to an investment that exposed him 
to significant risk  risk I dont think he would have been comfortable taking on. By its very 
nature, land investments arent readily  realisable.  The value of the land in this case was 
highly dependent on planning permission that hadnt  yet been granted.  And the investment 
was too long term for Mr Bs needs  as he was looking  to retire approximately  14 years  from 
the date of the transaction but the timescale  of the investment was 15-20 years according 
to the investment memorandum. He was also 52 at the time,  so he didnt have a particularly  
long time,  or the means, to make good  the potential losses  from the investment.
Mr B also had little in the way of other savings or investments either (approximately £17,000 
outside of his house and pensions, plus an unquantified number of shares in his old 
employer). So he was putting just under half of his financial assets, and three-quarters  of his 
pension assets,  into a single illiquid,  speculative, investment. This doesnt  strike me as being  
a satisfactorily diversified portfolio. 
I also note that HTA didnt complete some of the steps that it should have done given it was 
advising Mr B on transferring benefits  from a final salary occupational pension  scheme. In 
some ways, this is understandable. HTA was, after all, under the impression that this was an 
execution-only, rather than advised,  transaction. However, for the reasons given above, this 
wasnt the case. HTA had strayed  into giving advice to Mr B and, as such, I have to view the 
transaction, and HTAs obligations, in that light. Some of those  missing  steps  for instance 
calculating the returns Mr B would have needed in order to replicate the benefits he was 
giving up  may well have provided  further reasons for why the transfer was unsuitable. 
Given all the above, Im satisfied the advice to transfer wasnt  suitable. Ive not seen any 
persuasive reason  why Mr B would have gone  ahead with the transaction if he had been 
advised along these lines. As such, if HTA had given  suitable advice, Im satisfied  Mr B 
would not have transferred his pension, would not have ended up in a SIPP  and would not 
have invested  in the land venture.  
Ref: DRN72435615Finally on this, I note that Mr Bs attitude-to-risk was recorded as being very adventurous. 
However, I have doubts about how this rating came about. I can see it followed a 
questionnaire. But it was a very short questionnaire   just 12 questions.  It only required a 
tick in the various  boxes  rather than recording Mr Bs own thoughts on the matter.  And Mr B 
didnt sign to confirm  his answers or his understanding of its results. So I have doubts about 
how robust this exercise was and how much Mr B was asked  to engage with it. The outcome 
of the attitude-to-risk  exercise is also at odds  with Mr Bs behaviour  up to that point given his 
personal pension  was previously invested in a relatively cautious way (in a with-profits  fund). 
As such,  Mr Bs recorded attitude to risk isnt enough to make me think the transfer  was 
suitable, especially  given  all the other  available  evidence   outlined above   to the contrary.
The transfer from Mr Bs personal  pension
The transfer of Mr Bs personal  pension wouldnt have been suitable  on a standalone  basis  
not least because  its unlikely the transfer value would have been sufficient to make  the 
costs of the SIPP worthwhile and it wouldnt  have  been sufficient to allow investment in the 
land venture either. As such, the transfer of the personal pension  only really  makes sense 
when considered in conjunction  with the transfer  of the occupational scheme.  But, as 
outlined earlier, this was unsuitable too. It follows from this that compensation should take 
into consideration the transfer of Mr Bs personal  pension as well as the transfer of his 
occupational scheme benefits. 
The role of other parties
HTA is disappointed  that it is being  held responsible  for what happened  given the 
involvement and (in its view)  culpability of other  parties. 
I recognise HTA wasnt responsible for Mr Bs initial interest in the investment. It was Falcon 
that prompted him down this path. I also recognise Falcon undertook  some  of the activities 
often done by an adviser  for example, the completion of the fact-find. However, HTA was 
the regulated  entity here, not Falcon. And, for the reasons given above, HTA did advise  
Mr B so its responsible for the consequences of that advice. And, ultimately,  its unlikely the 
transfer and subsequent investment would have  happened but for HTAs involvement. So, all 
things considered, I think its fair and reasonable for HTA to be entirely responsible  for any 
compensation Mr B is due.
Fair compensation 
The transfer from Mr Bs occupational  pension  scheme
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable  advice.  I consider Mr B would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. HTA must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. The entire value  of what remains  in 
Mr Bs SIPP  originating from the occupational  and personal pension transfers should be 
used as the comparison with the occupational  scheme for this part of the calculation.  In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
Ref: DRN72435616appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the 
decision.
HTA may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP)  to obtain  Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
The transfer from Mr Bs personal  pension
I dont think Mr B would  have transferred his personal pension to the SIPP if it hadnt been 
for HTAs  actions, so I think it fair to include this transfer in my considerations of 
compensation. 
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr B would have done  differently with his personal  
pension. But I take the view that he wouldnt have  transferred to the SIPP  but would, instead, 
have retained his personal  pension plan and the funds  it held prior to the transfer.  With this 
in mind, and taking everything  into consideration, Im satisfied what  Ive set out below is a 
fair and reasonable approach to this part of Mr Bs compensation. 
To compensate Mr B fairly,  HTA must  calculate a fair value for Mr Bs personal pension 
according to the benchmark shown below, to determine the further compensation payable.  
This is to be added to the compensation calculated. 
investment  
namestatus benchmark from (start date) to (end date)
Personal  
PensionTransferred  
outthe fund(s) 
Mr Bs personal 
pension was 
previously 
invested indate of transfer date of my final 
decision
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. This means HTA will need to contact Mr Bs original pension provider 
to obtain this value.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept  if HTA totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end 
when determining the fair value instead  of deducting  periodically.
Ref: DRN72435617Treatment of the value  of the land investment
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would have been  in but for the actions of HTA. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here.
To calculate the compensation, HTA should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  
of the investment. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations  should include anything 
HTA has paid into the SIPP.  
If HTA is unable to buy the investment, it should  give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. In return for this, HTA may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on what he receives. HTA will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  If HTA asks Mr B to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of 
that undertaking.
SIPP fees
Any outstanding charges  yet to be applied to the SIPP should also be deducted before it is 
valued. In addition, the SIPP only exists  because of the illiquid  investment. In order  for the 
SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs  to be 
removed from the SIPP.  Ive set out above how this might be achieved by HTA taking over 
the investment,  or this is something that Mr B can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. 
But I dont know how long that will take.  
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, if HTA isnt buying  the investment  from the SIPP I think its fair that it 
pays Mr B an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
How to determine and pay the overall  compensation amount
The fair value  determined for Mr Bs personal  pension should be added  to the result of this 
redress calculation according to the pension  review guidance. If this demonstrates an overall 
loss, the compensation should,  if possible,  be paid into Mr Bs SIPP. The payment should  
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it should  
be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have  been  taken 
as tax-free cash and 75% would have been  taxed  according to Mr Bs likely income  tax rate 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within  90 days of the date HTA 
Ref: DRN72435618receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to 
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  HTA to pay 
Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Distress and inconvenience
Given the disruption to his retirement plans, Im satisfied  Mr B suffered distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of HTAs  actions. HTA should therefore pay Mr B a further £150 to 
reflect this.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Howard  Taylor  Associates 
must pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7243561