K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit  LLC owes him money following an overpayment to his loan
account.
background
Mr B had a loan account with Gain Credit. In May, June and July 2018, he made three
payments via his relatives bank account.  The relative then raised a chargeback because
she thought the payments were fraudulent, but eventually she authorised  the payments and
the money was returned to Gain Credit.
Mr B told Gain Credit  he wanted it to acknowledge  the three payments and refund a
payment of £236  that hed made on 26 November 2018 that he said was an overpayment.
Gain Credit said it had been unable to locate  the payments that Mr B claimed  had been
returned to the account, and asked Mr B to provide a copy of his relatives bank statement
showing the transactions.
Mr B complained to this service and our investigator acknowledged hed sent in codes
provided by his relatives bank, but he noted hed failed to provide a statement showing the
payments leaving  his relatives account.  Our investigator said that if Mr B provided the
statement, he would forward it to Gain Credit,  and if Gain  Credit was still unable  to locate the
payments, it would need to contact his relatives  bank. He said he expected  the two banks  to
sort out the problem, yet hed need to see Mr B had made further enquiries before he would
say Gain Credit was at fault.
Mr B subsequently sent in statements showing payments leaving the account for £248.80,
£331 and £130.60 dated in May 2018, June 2018 and July 2018  and confirmation from his
relatives bank that the above payments were returned to [Gain  Credits] bank via the VISA
Europe System  on 3 December 2018.
Our investigator concluded Gain Credit had failed to clarify how the cancelled chargebacks
had affected the loan repayments, which meant the complaint remained in limbo.
Consequently, he recommended  the complaint should be upheld and the complaint has
since been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
I noted Mr B had provided statements showing  three payments from his relatives bank 
account in May 2018, June 2018 and July 2018. These payments  were reversed via 
chargeback requests in September 2018 and October 2018,  but Mr Bs relatives bank had 
confirmed the money  was repaid  to Gain Credit on 3 December 2018.
Gain Credit had maintained there were no overpayments on the account and the three
payments hadnt  been returned to it. It had produced evidence of the payment reversals,  but 
it had failed to produce  statements to show the money wasnt  returned  to it in December 
2018, nor was there any evidence that it had tried to liaise  with Mr Bs relatives  bank.
Based on the available evidence I was satisfied it was most likely the money was returned to
Gain Credit by Mr Bs relatives bank. I said it was possible the money didnt make it into 
Ref: DRN74410832Mr Bs account but that didnt mean it wasnt returned to Gain  Credit. And in the absence of 
any evidence that it had exhausted  all means of tracing the payments, I didnt consider it had 
shown the money  wasnt returned to it.
Mr B hadnt  produced any evidence the confusion  concerning the returned payments had
resulted in an overpayment on the loan account. However,  Gain Credit maintained the
payments werent  received, and in the absence of any other evidence, I was satisfied it was 
likely they hadnt  been accounted for. Consequently,  I thought  the fairest  thing would be for 
Gain Credit to recalculate the loan balance to include the returned payments and to 
reimburse Mr B for any resulting overpayment, plus interest calculated  from 3 December 
2018.
developments
Mr B has indicated  hes happy with the findings in my provisional decision and Gain  Credit 
hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because theres been no new evidence or arguments for me to consider, the findings in my 
final decision  will be the same as the findings  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Gain Credit LLC to recalculate the loan balance to include 
three returned payments of £248.80, £331  and £130.60 and to reimburse any resulting 
overpayment. This is to include simple interest* on the overpayment at 8% per year from 3 
December 2018.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit  LLC to take off tax from this interest, they
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. He
may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7441083