K821x#15complaint
Mr C, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains that CashEuroNet 
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  were irresponsible in its lending to him.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr C entered into eight loans with QuickQuid  between  
May 2008 and January 2009.
Loan Date Amount Repaid
1 7 May 2008 £200 28 May 2008
2 1 Jul 2008 £400 28 Jul 2008
3 31 Jul 2008 £400 26 Sep 2008
4 6 Oct 2008 £500 28 Oct 2008
5 31 Oct 2008 £450 27 Nov 2008
6 1 Dec 2008 £550 24 Dec 2008
7 31 Dec 2008 £500 29 Jan 2009
8 30 Jan 2009 £500 outstanding
Mr C says that at the time of the loans he had other outstanding credit  commitments 
including other  payday loans. He says he had a low disposable income  and that loans were 
provided without  considering the affordability. Mr C says the loans trapped him on a cycle of 
borrowing.
QuickQuid says that the loans were taken out more than six years before Mr C raised his 
complaint and that Mr C would have been  reasonably aware of any issues  at the time of the 
loans.
Our adjudicator said that although Mr C raised his complaint more than six years after the 
loans had been provided, there was nothing to suggest that he knew, or he should really 
have known, he had reason to complain more than three years  ago. Because of this she 
considered all of the loans.
Our adjudicator said she hadnt seen enough to say that it was unfair  that loans one to five 
were provided. But loans six to eight shouldnt have been lent to Mr C. She said by the time 
loan six was provided, Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing  suggested he had become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans and was having problems managing  his money.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It reiterated that it had carried out adequate 
and proportionate checks before the loans were  provided. It said the suggestion that loans  
shouldnt be provided  beyond a certain  number was subjective and that further evidence was 
required to show loans  six to eight shouldnt have been provided.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN78641382QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
At the time these loans  were provided  the relevant  guidance was provided  by the Office of 
Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the need to make  a reasonable assessment of whether a 
borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues  such  
as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the 
agreement and without  having to realise  security or assets. It then further  sets out that 
without undue difficulty means without having  to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
QuickQuid raised the issue of jurisdiction. The loans were provided more than six years  
before Mr C raised his complaint. However  as our adjudicator explained the rules  regarding 
the timing of complaints allows us to consider complaints that are brought  more  than six 
years after the event complained of but within three  years of the consumer becoming aware, 
or ought be reasonably aware  of the cause for complaint. I have nothing  to suggest that 
Mr C was aware he had cause to complain  more than three years  before he brought  his 
complaint and so I have  considered the merits of his complaint.
Before the loans were  provided information  about  Mr Cs income was gathered and credit 
checks undertaken. I do not have anything to show information about his expenses was 
gathered and I think it would have been reasonable for these to have been  assessed. 
However, as I havent been provided any information regarding Mr Cs expenses from the 
time or information  about his other credit commitments including short term loan 
commitments, I do not find I have  enough to say that the first five loans provided were  
unaffordable.
Ref: DRN78641383However, by the time the sixth loan was provided,  Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. He incurred a late fee on 
his fifth loan and new loans were being  taken out within days  of the previous loan being  
repaid. Mr C had taken six loans in seven months,  and the amounts he was borrowing had 
increased over this period and then stayed  roughly  the same  for the rest of the borrowing 
relationship with QuickQuid. In my view, the pattern of lending itself shows  that the loans 
from here were unsustainable   so I dont think QuickQuid should  have given  Mr C loans six 
to eight. 
Overall, I think that Mr C lost out because  QuickQuid  continued  to provide borrowing from 
loan six. These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time. The 
sheer number of loans  was likely  to have  had negative implications on Mr C's ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  six to eight. CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans six to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
offset the above refund against any capital amount correctly outstanding, and pay any 
remaining amount  to Mr C;
the number  of loans taken from loan six means  any information recorded about  them  is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans six to eight should be removed from Mr C's credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Jane archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7864138