K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of Mr L, Mr M, Mr P and Mr S who collectively trade as C, a 
partnership. He says they are unhappy that Zurich Insurance  PLC wont  pay their claim for 
water damage to their commercial buildings under a Property Owners  Policy  they have  with 
Zurich Insurance  PLC.
background
In December 2010 C suffered water damage at their commercial premises. The water  had 
come from the sprinkler system  over the Christmas period when the building was on 
shutdown and supposed to be maintained at a minimum temperature. The claim progressed  
slowly leading to Mr B formally complaining particularly about  the delay. Zurich  issued a final 
response letter to that complaint in August 2012,  and offered £300 compensation, which  was 
rejected by C. The issues which concerned Zurich were:
the financial history of the partners (which has been resolved).
the fact that the property was partly  unoccupied  at the time of the loss
that on the face of it C had failed to comply with the minimum requirements for 
heating the property.
There were further delays while C obtained reports and reviewed their position.  After 
correspondence in 2015 and 2016 regarding the sprinkler and heating systems C decided  to 
start legal proceedings against  Zurich.  These  were  for a declaration that Zurich accept or 
deny liability. Following  Zurichs lodging of a defence, C decided  to pursue their complaint  
through this service. The legal proceedings were dismissed at Cs request.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Zurich had acted reasonably.  Mr B on 
Cs part didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  The matter  has been referred 
to me for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision. In that I said didnt think that Zurich  had acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably.
Neither party had made  any comments on my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
As a preliminary point, this claim was made  in December 2010. Whilst C has pursued  other  
actions in that time they must bear in mind that it is more  than eight years  since the claim 
was made.  This has an impact on the conclusions I can reach  now about the case  rather  
than when it was fresh in everyones  minds.
I should also make a further point here.  Mr B made  a complaint to Zurich on behalf of C in 
2012. That dealt  with the issues  that had arisen  up until August 2012. That complaint was 
responded to and Zurich offered compensation of £300 for the delays at the time. Whilst I 
understand that C didnt accept that, they were advised that if they wanted to pursue that 
Ref: DRN70900692complaint they had six months to refer it to us. They didnt do so and as a result I cant 
consider matters prior to and dealt  with in the letter  of 3 August 2012.
dismissal
Zurich believes the matter is more suitable for litigation and as such  I should exercise my 
power to dismiss the complaint without considering its merits.
I think the point  is well made. C says its claim is worth in the region of £500,000. I can only 
award compensation of up to £150,000. And, by issuing proceedings C has demonstrated  
that, in view of the disputed  evidence  of various witnesses, expert and non-expert that it 
might be more appropriate to be heard in Court. This office has no power to call witnesses or 
cross examine them.
Nevertheless I have to bear in mind that C has already issued proceedings and had them  
dismissed. As the limitation  period has now passed,  there seems  to me to be little prospect 
of C reviving those proceedings. And if I were so minded  I can recommend as a non-binding 
award that a business make a payment worth  in excess of £150,000.  I think  there is enough 
documentary evidence  for me to make a decision.
policy exclusion
Rather late in the day, in its defence of the proceedings brought by C in 2017  Zurich pointed 
out that there is an exclusion  in the policy for Accidental escape of water  from any 
automatic sprinkler installation in the Premises. C denies that such  an exclusion applies 
and/or that it never received the policy documents. Since in the policy there  is alternative  
cover specifically for sprinkler systems, it would only be possible to tell which  cover  applied 
from the schedule  of insurance.  Zurich hasnt shown us any such policy schedule, but, in any 
event, I think it raised the issue  too late to fairly be able to rely on it. Further,  in view of my 
findings below,  I dont think it is now relevant.
occupation of the premises
Zurich says that part of the building was unoccupied and as a result,  terms in the policy 
relating to heating  the premises and/or draining  the systems came  into effect. C says that 
the whole  building was occupied. In respect of the tenant/licensee  (a company, R) who 
occupied the premises Mr B has said that R kept some stock  on the second floor. Rs 
occupation of the premises has been elaborated more  over the years,  to the extent that now 
it is alleged that R frequently  attended  the upper floors, more than once a week  and that 
there was a daily inspection prior to locking up.
Zurich has pointed out that the tenants were  licensees. They only occupied the basement 
and ground floors of the premises. There was no formal arrangement  in place for them  to 
maintain the heating or sprinkler systems. 
As Ive said,  this matter  is now more  than eight years old. We find that statements made  
closer to the event, tend to be more reliable. I see that In October and December 2011,  a 
forensic investigator spoke to two people from R, described as respectively the managing 
director and the supervisor, and reported that back to Zurich. It was reported that the first 
and second floors were  unoccupied. R kept a small amount of obsolescent stock there. It 
was further reported that the supervisor or another member of staff visited  the second floor 
on average once  a week. There is no definition of unoccupied in the policy but bearing  in 
Ref: DRN70900693mind that R had, in 2009, physically moved from the second floor downstairs to the ground 
floor and basement, I think it fair to say that, at least a portion of the building was 
unoccupied. This does  mean in my view that the terms  in the policy  relating to the building  
becoming in part unoccupied came  into effect.
cause of the damage
The relevant  term in the policy states:
Whenever a Building or portion thereof becomes unoccupied:
(b) the following  action  must be implemented by the Insured within 30 days  of the date that 
the Insured or their Managing Agent becomes aware that the Building is unoccupied:
i) All mains services except electricity supply to maintain any fire or intruder alarm system
must be turned off and the water system must  be completely drained, or during  the
period 1st October to 1st April each year central heating systems  must be kept working at
a minimum temperature  of 5 degrees Celsius.  Where sprinkler systems are installed and
water supplies  must  be maintained, heating must  be maintained  at a minimum
temperature of 5 degrees Celsius.
The exact circumstances of the damage  are unclear. It is alleged by Mr B that the sprinkler  
system was dry, in that it had been drained out. It was said to be in air mode, that is, it was 
filled with compressed  air. At some stage  the system had tripped  resulting in the system  
filling up and the sprinkler system coming into effect  even though there was no fire.
Whilst this is put forward  as an opinion by the partners of C and director of R, this view isnt 
really supported by the expert evidence. The company that had previously maintained the 
system came out to do what it described as frost damage repair. And it appears that the 
sprinkler pipes were  sagging in places, which could mean they werent fully drained.  It was 
noted in the October 2011 inspection  that there were  new metallic straps tying the sprinkler  
pipes to the roof trusses.
C instructed an expert who inspected  in November 2015, who also thought  the damage was 
likely caused  by freezing pipes.
The maintenance schedule, so far as can be ascertained,  shows  that the pipes were  last 
maintained before the claim, in December 2008. It appears that maintenance of the system 
was left up to the licensees. Theres no indication that the system was maintained in 2009 
and a worksheet  from December 2010  (before the incident) says that the system was 
switched to air, but doesnt say there was an inspection or maintenance of the system. 
Based on the expert opinion closest to the incident  I think its likely that the damage  was due 
to the system not being fully drained over two years. The pipes then froze and thawed 
leading to them bursting in several  places.
heating
The next stage  is to ascertain what sort of heating was in place and whether it would have  
been maintained at a temperature of 5C Ail the indications are that taking into account 
where the water appeared to come from that part of the building  was a roof void and it was 
unlikely that it was kept at 5C. The term in the policy requires both that the central heating 
system be kept at that temperature and, where  water sprinkler  systems  are installed, that 
Ref: DRN70900694heating must  also be maintained at least 5C. Since the latter  part of that specifically refers 
to sprinkler systems and given that the central heating system  apparently  didnt extend to all 
of the second  floor,  some form of alternative heating  needed to be in place. There appeared 
to be three  or four independent heaters. One at least wasnt  working. Its not possible to say 
whether the heating that was there was set at frost protection. C obtained a report from a 
consultant in 2012 which estimated that the temperature in the roof void was about  -1 C. 
Cs engineer who carried out a report in November 2015 said that had various heaters been 
in full operation,  they would have been adequate  to protect against  freezing. He wasnt  able 
to say what heaters  were  in operation in 2010,  and couldnt say that it would  have kept the 
temperature at 5C. But I bear in mind that this was nearly five years after the event. He was 
unable to explain why in that event  the pipes froze.
And although there are later statements from the director of R saying he kept the heaters on 
frost guard, its difficult to say they were most likely  adequately maintained to keep the 
building at a temperature of 5C.
My conclusion is that the heating wasnt adequately  kept at the minimum temperature of 
5C. And the expert evidence would seem  to confirm that. The licence to occupy issued to R 
placed certain obligations on it concerning the repair and maintenance of the part of the 
building occupied by them (ground floor and basement) but not in respect of any other part 
of the building. It appears to me that there were no formal procedures in place to ensure R 
had responsibility  for maintaining the heating or the sprinkler systems.
delay
As Ive said I can look at any delay only from August 2012  onwards. Mr B alleges that Zurich  
simply failed to either accept or deny liability, and that this caused  a substantial delay in the 
claim. It is alleged that Zurich kept asking C to obtain more reports  and evidence. I dont 
think thats the case here. Zurich hadnt accepted liability by November 2012  but I think  it 
had made  it clear that its position depended on the occupation and the compliance with the 
term concerning heating.  C took no steps to contact Zurich between November 2012 and 
February 2014, and again  between February 2016  and October 2016. Proceedings were 
issued in December  2016 and I find no delay  on Zurichs part after that. As for the periods in 
between these were  taken up with correspondence  firstly  about the partners  financial status 
then about the circumstances of the claim.
Whilst I appreciate that C wanted a decision out of Zurich, I think  it was reasonable for it to 
await more evidence from C. C had said they were obtaining expert  evidence   Ive seen no 
indication from Zurich  that it specifically required it.
pre- policy  inspection
Mr B has raised an issue, that Zurich  carried out a survey of the property in June 2008  
before agreeing to insure it. He says that it follows that if Zurich  had concerns about the 
sprinkler system,  or the heating,  it should  have raised those with C, who arent experts  on 
sprinkler systems.  The survey, which was a risk assessment, identified various areas of 
possible risk. I cant see that it was intended to be an intrusive survey about the condition  of 
the premises. The sprinkler  system and the heating werent mentioned. But I cant take from 
that that issues didnt arise over the next two years. Additionally it appears that the main  
areas of pipe burst were  in a roof void which wouldnt have been looked  at in such a survey.
 
Ref: DRN70900695Zurich has pointed out that the whole purpose  of the condition for unoccupancy was to avoid 
problems with the sprinkler system. C would have been expected  to ensure the heating 
system was adequate  and shouldnt have needed  the insurer to point this out. I think thats 
reasonable.
insurance 2012
At the renewal in March 2012, C asserts that Zurich refused to renew the policy. Their broker  
said that it couldnt find alternative  insurance.  I understand that C was able to obtain such 
insurance through their mortgagees. Zurich says it was its intention to suggest  that the 
insured seek cover  elsewhere to avoid a declinature of renewal which  may later cause 
difficulties for the insured in obtaining insurance  elsewhere. I believe that this referred to the 
enquiries about the partners financial circumstances at the time.
Whatever Zurichs  intention  was, this appears to have been  treated by the broker  as being a 
refusal to renew.  As Zurich was entitled to make  a commercial decision regarding  renewal, 
and as C was able to find alternative  insurance. I wont  make  any finding in that respect.  
brokers acting as agents
Mr B has said that as it is a branded policy in the brokers name, the broker was acting as an 
agent for Zurich.   It is therefore responsible for the failure to provide the policy documents  
and any failure by C to not be aware of the policy provisions. He says in his experience at 
the time the policy was sold, brokers frequently failed to provide the full terms of cover.  
Even in 2008  the broker should have provided the full documents.  But I have no evidence  
that the brokers were  agents of the insurer. In any event, this was a commercial policy.  The 
partners of C should have been  aware  of what  cover  they were  buying. If they didnt get the 
policy documents, it was up to them  to ensure they got them.  Without documentary evidence  
and ten years after the sale of the policy, its not possible for me to make any finding in that 
respect.
overall 
I dont think, bearing  in mind its now over eight years since the claim, that there  is sufficient 
evidence for me to say that the insured building was occupied on the first and second floors  
at the time of the loss. I also dont think its been shown that its likely that the heating  was 
kept at the sufficient temperature in accordance with the policy terms. Therefore, I havent 
found that Zurich  failed  C, or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably.
As neither party has made any further  comment on my provisional findings,  I have  nothing  
further to add. My provisional findings  have  therefore become  final.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
Mr L, Mr M, Mr P and Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
Ref: DRN70900696ombudsman
Ref: DRN7090069