K820x#14complaint
Mr R is complaining that 1 Answer Insurance Services Ltd (1 Answer) wants  him to repay 
money he recovered following a chargeback request he did through  his credit  card provider 
of payment of a premium for a commercial vehicle insurance policy  that was cancelled  mid-
term when the insurer  went  out of business. 
background
In November 2017 Mr R entered  into a commercial vehicle insurance policy through 
1 Answer  a broker   to insure his taxi. Mr R paid around £2,400 to 1 Answer for the policy  
and he paid the premium in full on his credit card. 1 Answer then paid this money to the 
insurer.
Unfortunately, in May 2018 the insurer who provided  the policy went out of business.  So 
Mr Rs insurance  policy  was cancelled  with immediate effect and Mr R had to take out a new 
insurance policy with a different insurer. Mr R didnt receive a refund of the premium he paid 
and he was directed  to the Danish Guarantee Fund (DGF)  who was compensating the 
insurers customers for losses arising  from the insurer going out of business.
In August  2018  1 Answer were contacted by Mr Rs credit card provider who said that hed 
applied for a refund of the premium hed paid under the chargeback scheme  rules.  It asked 
1 Answer to provide  further information  for it to review the dispute. 1 Answer  didnt respond 
to the credit  card provider,  so the credit  card provider refunded half of the premium that Mr R 
paid and recovered this money from 1 Answer as Mr R initially paid 1 Answer.
1 Answer sought  to recover this money from Mr R directly as it said he would need  to 
contact the DGF to recover  this money.  Mr R didnt think  he should have to refund this as he 
didnt receive the full annual policy he paid for. And he asked this service to step in. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said 1 Answer  wasnt responsible for 
providing the premium  refund because it was the broker.  She said responsibility for this fell 
with the insurer.  And she said 1 Answer  didnt retain  the premium as it paid it to the insurer.  
She said that it had explained to him that he needed to contact  the DGF to reclaim the 
refund. 
So she thought it was fair for 1 Answer to say that Mr R needed to repay  the money he 
received from the chargeback. And she said 1 Answer was willing to agree a suitable 
repayment plan to repay this.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings.  He said he was entitled  to make the 
chargeback request. He said the credit  card provider investigated it and refunded  the 
payment to him. He said 1 Answer had an opportunity  to defend  the claim, but it didnt do so. 
He maintained that hed only ever dealt with 1 Answer,  so still thought it was liable to refund 
him.
As Mr R didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to decide. 
I wrote  to 1 Answer setting out that I intended  to uphold this complaint. I said the chargeback 
rules set out that a consumer has the right to ask for a refund of a payment made for goods 
or services where they dont feel theyve received what they paid for. I thought  that, as Mr R 
didnt receive the full contract, he applied for a chargeback. 
Ref: DRN75832372I further explained that, under the rules, 1 Answer had the right to dispute the chargeback,  
but it didnt do so. I said it could have explained  to the credit card provider that it didnt 
provide the contract or the reason for the failure  giving rights  to the DGF. I said that there 
are then grounds for appeal within the chargeback process. But I said that ultimately, once 
the chargeback  process is complaint, ordinarily the business is bound by it. 
Given this, I asked 1 Answer why it didnt respond to the chargeback request. And I said I 
was inclined to say that 1 Answer is bound  by the outcome  of the chargeback process and 
Mr R wasnt required  to refund the amount he received under chargeback.
1 Answer responded  to say a backlog had built up due to the influx of information coming in 
following the insurer going out of business including responding to chargeback requests. 
It said 1 Answer is not authorised to hold client money. And it said the payment for the 
premium was passed to the insurer. So it said that 1 Answer was out of pocket as a result. It 
also said that the refund given was incorrect. It said that the policy provided a refund  on the 
basis of short-term rates. So it said that Mr R was only entitled to a refund of £790.12.
Mr R responded to say that 1 Answer can recover the money  from the DGF, but he hasnt 
made this claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken 1 Answers  comments  into account,  but I still think this complaint should be 
upheld.
I dont dispute  that 1 Answer would  have had a dramatic  and unexpected increase in its 
workload following the collapse  of the insurer. But I have to think about whether Mr R is 
required to pay back the amount  he received following his chargeback claim, taking into 
account the relevant chargeback rules.
I think it would first be helpful to explain what a chargeback is. Chargeback  is the process by 
which settlement disputes are resolved  between  card issuers and merchants under the 
relevant card scheme.  In this case,  Mr R paid the full annual  premium in full to 1 Answer.  
And he was entitled,  under the chargeback  scheme rules, to ask it to refund the amount he 
paid. The credit card provider was then required to act as an arbitrator to review and seek  to 
resolve the dispute. 
The credit card provider will issue a temporary  refund to the consumer and contact the 
merchant giving it time to respond and defend the claim  usually 45 days.  In this case, the 
credit card provider wrote  to 1 Answer on 3 August 2018 explaining that Mr R had carried  
out a chargeback. And it asked 1 Answer to respond and provide some information to help it 
review the claim.  But 1 Answer  didnt respond to this. I appreciate  that this was down  to the 
unexpected increase in workloads but ultimately, as it didnt respond to the claim,  its bound 
by the outcome. 
Ref: DRN75832373Ive also taken into account its comments that Mr R was only entitled  to a refund of £790.12.  
But this is something  it should have raised in its defence of the chargeback. So it doesnt  
change my decision on this.
So I cant say that its able to require Mr R repay the amount he received under the 
chargeback request. However, Mr R has a separate right to claim this refund from the DGF. 
If he receives a refund  from the DGF,  he should pay this to 1 Answer directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
1 Answer Insurance  Services Ltd should stop pursuing Mr R for the amount he received from 
the chargeback  request. But he has a separate right to claim this refund from the DGF.  If he 
receives a refund from the DGF,  he should  pay this to 1 Answer  directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7583237