K820x#14complaint
Mr S says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S was sold the policy when he took out a loan in 2001. The loan had an amount to pay 
for the PPI. This is called  a single  premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
I dont think Mr Ss PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, HSBC doesnt  still have  Mr Ss original paperwork. But 
I have looked  at samples of the paperwork Mr S wouldve seen at the time of his sale.  From  
that, it looks like he wouldve been given a choice about whether he wanted PPI or not. And 
if he did want it, he wouldve signed  a document specifically for PPI, separately to applying  
for the loan itself.  Meanwhile, the credit agreement wouldve set out the cost of the PPI 
separately to the cost of the loan,  rather than as something that was necessarily included. 
So I think its most likely that HSBC made Mr S aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it out  though  I can understand  if he no longer remembers  doing 
so after so long.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr S wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. And he was only entitled to 
statutory sick pay and redundancy  pay through work, which wouldve been very limited.  So 
the PPI offered him more  comprehensive protection in case  he fell on difficult times.
Mr S wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest he thought hed repay the loan early.  So I think  
the policy was still probably right for him, and I dont think better information about the 
cancellation terms wouldve stopped him from buying it.
The agreement wouldve shown the cost of the PPI  including  the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium, the total cost, and what it would cost each month. So it wouldve 
been clear to Mr S how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy  for its full term. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr S made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than he paid for it. 
Lastly, its possible that HSBC didnt point  out all the main  things the PPI didnt cover.  But as 
I said above, Mr S wasnt affected  by any of those things.
Ref: DRN75581382my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7558138