K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains EUI Limited didnt give him the opportunity to opt-out  of receiving marketing 
material before taking out a policy with them.
background
Mr M bought  his motor  insurance policy with EUI through  a comparison website in 
August 2018.  And he says he didnt believe hed opted  in to receive marketing material at 
that time.  However, he received  a marketing email from EUI a few months  later. Mr M was 
unhappy he received this, so raised a complaint.
EUI looked into Mr Ms concerns and issued their final response letter. In this they explained 
Mr M was automatically opted  in for marketing material when he obtained  his quote. They 
said Mr M would  have  had to read EUIs  privacy  statement that explained how he could opt 
out. As Mr M didnt  do this, EUI didnt  think theyd done anything wrong by sending  
marketing material. However, they agreed to opt him out going forward. Mr M remained 
unhappy, so brought his complaint to our service. He said EUI had breached General Data  
Protection Regulation (GDPR) by not getting his explicit consent. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think  it should  be upheld. She 
explained Mr Ms complaint may be better directed  to the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). Our adjudicator also explained  that when Mr M obtained his quote, he would have  
read EUIs privacy statement.  And this told policyholders  to email them to opt out of 
receiving marketing material.  As Mr M hadnt emailed to opt out, she didnt think  EUI had 
done anything  wrong.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator, so his complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on the 12 December  2019. And in this, I said I was minded 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I said Mr M would have had to read through a lot of information 
 not all related  to marketing material, in order to see he could opt by email.  So, I wasnt  
satisfied EUI had made it clear enough for Mr M to know what he was agreeing  to.
Both Mr M and EUI had until 12 January 2020  to respond.  Mr M agreed with my provisional 
decision, but I didnt get a response from EUI. Considering this, my decision remains  the 
same and Ill explain my findings  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  my reasoning below.
Like our adjudicator, I agree that Mr Ms complaint  is one that is often best directed to the 
ICO. Thats because our service doesnt have the remit to say whether or not EUI has 
breached GDPR. However, we can take the provisions of GDPR into consideration, 
alongside all the other circumstances of what happened.  We would then use this information  
to decide whether Mr M was treated fairly.
Ref: DRN71751102The crux of Mr Ms complaint is whether EUI should have obtained his consent before  opting 
him in for marketing  material. As mentioned above, Mr M believes this should have 
happened. However, EUI have said they were entitled to use a soft opt in. This means they 
didnt need his explicit consent.  And theyve said thats because  the ICOs guidance says the 
soft opt-in  applies if negotiations for sale took place. As Mr M obtained a quote from EUI, 
they feel the soft opt-in applied to him.
As Ive said,  I cant make  a finding  on whether the specifics  of GDPR have been adhered to. 
But what  have I looked into is whether  Mr M reasonably ought to have known that he didnt 
have to receive marketing  material from EUI.
EUI have  said Mr M had to read their privacy  statement,  and confirm he accepted it before 
he could take out a policy with them. And this privacy statement explained customers  should  
email EUI if they didnt  want  to receive  marketing material. EUI believe requiring customers  
to email to opt out, is a simple  requirement.  And I agree with that to a certain extent. But 
I dont think that is enough to say EUI treated Mr M fairly.
Ive seen the privacy  statement Mr M had to read.  And there was lot of information  for him to 
digest before he would have reached  the part about opting out. There  was also a lot of 
information following  this part of the privacy  statement too. The tick box confirming  Mr M had 
read the privacy  statement was also used to confirm he had read EUIs  conditions of use. 
This means  Mr M had to read and understand a lot of detailed  information before he could 
take out the policy.
While sending an email is a relatively  simple task,  I cant agree it was easy  enough  for Mr M 
to see that was option. So, I cant fairly say the information was clear  enough  for him to 
identify what he was agreeing to. And given Mr Ms strength  of feeling on the matter,  Im 
persuaded he would have  opted  out had the privacy  statement been  clear enough for him to 
see how he could do this.
Given the above, I dont consider EUI treated Mr M fairly. And hes suffered inconvenience 
and stress  as a result  of this. Mr M received correspondence he didnt want  and had to 
contact EUI to find out why that happened. So, its for this reason I consider  EUI should pay 
Mr M £50 in recognition  of the inconvenience  he experienced. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
To put things right EUI Limited should  pay Mr M £50 in recognition of the stress and 
inconvenience caused when he received marketing material  from them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175110