K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  for its handling  of a claim 
relating to a water leak at their home. Mr and Mrs M said they replaced their roof based  on 
Avivas agent saying he believed that was the likely source of the leak. They  want to be 
reimbursed for the cost of the roof, and compensated  for their distress and inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in June  2020. A copy of that decision is attached. 
In that decision,  I explained why I considered that Aviva had provided a poor service  to Mr 
and Mrs M. I set out that I thought that the complaint  should  be upheld and that Aviva should  
pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M for their distress  and inconvenience. I did not, however, 
consider that Aviva  should compensate Mr and Mrs M for their replacement  roof. 
That provisional decision has been  shared with the parties and they have been given the 
opportunity to comment. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided lengthy  submissions, setting out that they wholly reject my 
decision and that they wish to take this matter through the courts. They have made  
substantial comments,  which  mainly focussed  on the following points:
Mr and Mrs M state that the only person to indicate that there was any issue with 
their roof was the contractor who attended their property on behalf of Aviva;
They dispute my comment in the provisional  decision that their roofing contractor 
considered that the roof needed  replacement, and they say that they did not take 
any advice about whether the roof needed replacement before proceeding with the 
roof replacement; 
They have made some additional  comments about the quality of the repairs that were 
ultimately carried out, including issues with the tiles, laminate flooring  and plastering.  
Aviva has responded,  arguing that the level of compensation  I proposed is too high on the 
basis that another service, H, had attended  the property twice  before their contractor 
attended, and had not identified the source  of the leak.
I have therefore  considered  whether  any of these submissions affect my view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has argued that their contractor provided an opinion on the source of the leak based 
on H not having found a leak on its previous  visits. 
I do not consider  that the actions or inactions of H affect Avivas  responsibility to provide an 
adequate service, both directly and through its agents. Avivas  contractor  gave his view in a 
professional capacity, on behalf  of Aviva, and should have carried out a reasonable 
inspection before ruling out a leak in the hot water system. 
Ref: DRN75383902Mr and Mrs M have  indicated  that they relied  wholly on the comments  of the contractor who 
was sent by Aviva, and that they commissioned the replacement  of their roof based on his 
belief that the roof was in poor condition and that the leak was coming from the roof. 
I set out in the background to my provisional  decision  that the roofing contractor had 
advised that although he could not see a specific leak, the roof was overall in need  of 
replacement. Mr and Mrs M disagree  with this comment. 
This comment was based upon case notes which indicate that the roofing contractor told 
Aviva that he suggested  the roof needed to be replaced in full.
I considered that by suggesting that the roof be replaced in full the roofing contractor showed 
his view was that the roof required replacement, however  I accept that this may not have 
been expressed, or expressed in this way, to Mr and Mrs M. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M may not have obtained any other  opinions  on the condition  
of the roof, and may have relied  entirely upon  the comment by Avivas agent  in deciding to 
replace the roof, but I have not seen evidence that they were  advised to do this by Aviva or 
Avivas agent. 
Mr and Mrs M argue that the agent said that the leak came  from the roof as a reason to deny 
cover for the damage inside. I accept  that Avivas contractor did indicate both that he 
believed the roof was the cause of the leak, and that the damage would not be covered 
because of this. I provisionally  upheld the decision because of this, but I do not consider that 
the agents comments amounted to professional advice about what repairs were  required at 
the property going forward. 
Consequently, I do not think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to replace the roof without 
satisfying themselves that work  was necessary, either through their own observations or by 
receiving a professional  opinion  on the condition of the roof. 
Mr M has indicated  that he holds professional qualifications in this area and would require a 
chartered surveyors opinion, rather than the opinion of a roofing  contractor,  before  deciding 
to undertake a full roof replacement. I cannot see why, then, he would rely upon  the 
comments of the building contractor provided by his insurance company to look at damage  
from a leak to a downstairs room, rather than similarly to satisfy himself that replacement of 
the roof was necessary. 
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments, I remain of my provisional view that Aviva 
provided a poor service  by not carrying  out a proper search for the source of the leak, and 
for wrongly  advising Mr and Mrs M that the damage  from the leak would not be covered by 
their policy.  I think that this caused  Mr and Mrs M distress and inconvenience and caused a 
delay to their claim being resolved and the work at their home undertaken. 
Mr and Mrs M have  made further  comments about the standard  of the repairs that were 
ultimately carried out. I cannot see that these concerns  have ever been raised with the 
company responsible for carrying  out the repairs in order to give them an opportunity to 
respond to these concerns. As a result, I have not considered these comments  as part of 
this complaint. If Mr and Mrs M believe that Aviva is responsible for these issues  they can 
make a complaint  to Aviva directly about these.  
Ref: DRN75383903Taking into account the comments  received,  I adopt my provisional decision and reasoning, 
as supplemented by the above, as my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and given in my provisional decision,  I uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint and direct  Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay to Mr and Mrs M £300 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience. I make no other award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7538390