K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Finance, took a final balloon payment on a finance agreement despite  him opting to 
part exchange the vehicle and not take ownership  of it.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020. I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mr B took receipt of a used car in September 2014. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. When it was time to hand  the car back  VWFS wrote to him 
and said they would  take the final payment and option to purchase fee automatically unless 
Mr B told them hed like to part exchange  it; return it; or refinance  the remaining balance.
Mr B chose to part exchange  the car for another and he signed  the deal on line on 
16 October 2018. But he was shocked to find that the option  to purchase fee and the final 
balloon payment of over £20,000 was taken  from his business account anyway, on 
30 October. He said this caused a great deal of inconvenience. He was unable  to pay for 
stock and it interrupted  payments  for his staff.
He complained to VWFS  but they said they didnt receive  notification  of the part exchange  
until it was too late and thats why they defaulted  to debiting the final payment from Mr Bs 
account.
Mr B therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his 
opinion. He thought VWFS  had made  a mistake and that they should have been aware Mr B 
was part exchanging the car as hed formed that agreement in advance  of the final payment 
being taken. He understood this would have  been distressing for Mr B so he suggested 
VWFS pay him £100 in compensation.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the investigators suggested  settlement. He explained that his 
business had been disabled for 24 hours as a result of the mistake  and he didnt think  £100 
was sufficient compensation. He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I know  that will disappoint VWFS so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN77034492Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of Mr Bs finance agreement said:
2.4 When  you have made all payments due under this agreement you will have the option 
of purchasing the Vehicle.  You may exercise  this by paying us the Option to Purchase Fee. 
Until you have exercised  this option  the vehicle will remain our property.
and
10.2  On termination (or expiry of this agreement without exercise  of the Option to 
Purchase), you must return  the vehicle to us 
I think the terms of the agreement suggest that Mr B would  have to exercise the option to 
purchase the car. And if he wanted  to exercise  that option hed have  to pay an option to 
purchase fee. 
But VWFSs  letter to him on 2 October 2018  said theyd take the option to purchase fee and 
the final payment  of over £20,000, by default,  unless Mr B told them  he wanted to take 
another option. 
I dont think that was fair. I think a reasonable person would expect there to be a point were  
the consumer  actively exercised  his or her rights and agreed  to take the option  to purchase 
the car by paying the option to purchase fee.
I think VWFSs decision to make the default one in which the final payment was taken  
automatically if they didnt  hear from Mr B was one that was likely to create significant 
inconvenience for their customer  if anything  went  wrong.
And here I think something has gone wrong.  Ive seen evidence that VWFS were told of the 
part exchange on 16 October.  The final payment wasnt to be taken until 31 October  and I 
think that gave  VWFS plenty of time to ensure  it wasnt  debited  from Mr Bs account.
Ive seen evidence  from Mr Bs bank that the payment caused him significant  difficulties. The 
relationship manager at the bank has explained that the final payment was requested  on the 
day that wages  were to be paid from the account. The manager has also explained that the 
account was unusable for 24 hours.  
So I think there is evidence that Mr B has been  significantly inconvenienced  by this issue. I 
can imagine it would have  been  very distressing to have the business finances closed down 
for 24 hours and I think VWFS could have been  more sympathetic to Mr B and have 
recognised the impact  their mistake had made.  In those circumstances I dont think  the 
investigators suggested compensation is sufficient and Im intending  to ask VWFS to pay 
£500 in respect  of the distress and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
Im expecting to ask Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to pay Mr B £500 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions  have caused  him.
Ref: DRN77034493my findings
VWFS and Mr B accepted my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im asking Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited to 
pay Mr B £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions have 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7703449