K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that DNA  Insurance  Services  Ltd sold him a motor trade policy that 
wasnt suitable for his needs. 
DNA is represented in this complaint  by its solicitors. For ease of reading Ill refer to all the 
solicitors actions and comments  as being  those  of DNA.
background
Mr W bought a motor trade  policy through DNA in August 2016. At that time, he said he only
wanted cover for the vehicles he traded. A couple  of months  later Mr W added his own
vehicles to his motor trade policy while  the policy was in force.  Mr W said DNA told him 
about the benefits of doing this but didnt tell him the cars werent covered for their market 
value.
Mr W renewed the policy through DNA  in 2017. In 2018 Mr Ws own car was damaged in a 
fire so he claimed  on his insurance. His insurer said he was only covered up to the value of 
£5,000, as this was the indemnity limit on his policy. 
Mr W said his car was worth £25,900 and he would never have added it and his own van to 
the trade policy if hed known  the policy didnt cover  him for those.  He said DNA  shouldnt
have suggested  he add his own vehicles to the trade policy.
DNA said Mr W had chosen the indemnity limit when hed bought  the policy  and hed 
received documents each year that set out the limit. DNA also said it had confirmed the limit 
with him twice at the renewal in September  2017.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said hed understood he had a
£5,000 limit for the vehicles  he traded, but thought he was covered for the full value of his 
own vehicles.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 November  2019.  In that decision I 
said:
DNA said it wouldnt have  recommended  that Mr W put his private vehicles on the policy,
and it was his choice. Its unclear whether the initial sale was advised however, I can see
from the 2017 Statement of Demands and Needs that at renewal  DNA  recommended the
insurer to Mr W. So, I think its likely  the initial sale was as well. That means  DNA needed to
to take reasonable steps to ensure  the suitability of its advice, as well as providing Mr W with
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.
Due to the length of time thats passed  DNA doesnt have the call available from when Mr W
set up his policy, although I dont think this matters,  because he didnt  add his private
vehicles at that time. A few months  later he decided to add his personal  vehicles  on to this
policy. Again, the call isnt available. While I can understand why DNA might  not have  kept
these calls from 2016 and 2017,  its call notes arent enough to persuade me it took
reasonable steps to let Mr W know his private  vehicles would also only be covered for
£5,000. Thats because the notes  dont show that any conversation  took place around the
level of cover hed need  for those vehicles.
Mr W said he told DNA the value of his vehicles.  Ive seen the renewal documents sent to
Ref: DRN75621232Mr W in 2017 and this says the estimated  value  of his car is £20,000. So, DNA  knew how
much the car was worth.  I havent  seen anything  to suggest it let Mr W know he didnt have
sufficient cover and I think it should have done.
I appreciate DNA provided Mr W with a schedule of insurance that said Motor Trade (Comp)
indemnity £5,000. But I can understand why he thought this only applied to trade  vehicles.
The policy also does say theres a limit of £5,000  and during the renewal call the agent says
theres a £5,000 indemnity. But this isnt enough to persuade me DNA did enough to ensure
the suitability of its advice when adding  Mr Ws own vehicles on to his trade policy  or at
renewal.
The 2017  Statement of Demands and Needs statement  says Although  cost is an important
consideration to you, you also consider the levels of cover,  the security rating of the insurer
and service levels offered  important and as such would not necessarily accept the cheapest
premium.  From this I think its most likely that Mr W wanted to ensure the right cover and
not just the cheapest. Hes also said he bought  the correct level of cover as soon as he
realised he wasnt sufficiently covered.
So, I dont think DNA did enough to ensure the suitability  of its advice to Mr W and Im
satisfied he wouldnt have  added his private vehicles  to the policy, or renewed with the same
level of cover, if hed known they were only covered for £5,000. So, Ive thought  about what
he would  have done if it had taken reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice.
Ive spoken to Mr W and hes said if hed known he was only covered for £5,000  he would
have bought a policy covering him for the market value of the car. Im persuaded by this as
he said he now has a comprehensive policy  for his current  car that provides this level of
cover. So, to put Mr W back in the position  hed have been in if hed been given clear
suitable advice,  I think DNA needs to compensate him for the amount hes lost in buying this
policy. Ive set out my calculations of this below.
Ive used relevant  trade guides  to consider  the value of Mr Ws car at the time of the loss.
These give values of £18,275, £25,320, £24,038 and £25,500.  I think  its fair to discount  the
value of £18,275 as its out of line with the others  so I find it less persuasive. I think a fair
way of reaching a valuation  in this case is then to take the average of the other three  values
which is £24,953.
I intend to issue  a decision telling the insurer to pay £5,000 in settlement of the claim. So, as
Mr W will be receiving that from elsewhere  Ive deducted  that from the value of the car, as
DNA only needs to cover  Mr Ws loss. Mr Ws excess was £550,  and he would always  have
needed to pay that. So, I think its also fair to also deduct the excess  from the amount DNA
needs to pay.
If DNA had let Mr W know he didnt have an appropriate level of cover,  he would also have
needed to buy policies for his car, his van and his motorbike in 2016 and for his car and van
in 2017. Mr Ws told me he currently pays around  £564 for a policy for his current  car. As this
is a different type of car to the one that was damaged,  Ill consider any submission DNA
would like to make if it thinks it would have cost Mr W more to insure his previous  car,
however it seems a reasonable estimate.  Mr W said he also paid around £600  for his van
insurance and £150  for his motorbike. So, I think its fair to deduct  a total of £1,314 as what
he would  have paid for other policies in 2016  and £1,164 in 2017.
Mr W currently has the salvage,  but hes confirmed he wouldnt have kept it if hed received
Ref: DRN75621233the full market value of his vehicle in settlement. This is what  would have happened if Mr W
had bought a different policy. So, as DNA denied Mr W that opportunity it cant deduct
anything for salvage,  as long as Mr W transfers  the ownership of the vehicle  to DNA upon
payment of the compensation.
In summary,  to put things right, I intend  to require DNA to pay Mr W a total of £16,925 to put
him back in the position he would have been  in if it had taken reasonable steps to ensure the
suitability of its advice.  Due to the time Mr Ws been  without the money DNA should add
interest to that amount  at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of the fire to the date it
makes payment.
Mr W accepted my decision  but let me know hed like to keep the salvage. Our investigator 
let Mr W and DNA know that this meant the settlement would be reduced by £5,570.40, as 
this was the salvage value of his car.
DNA didnt  agree and made  a number of detailed points. In summary, it said:
It was concerned about the effects  my decision would have on the industry,  where a 
customer has chosen and accepted  a level of cover and paid a lower premium for it.
My decision is contrary  to the legal position.
My decision would mean insurers would refuse cover for customers unless it was for 
the full value of the vehicle.
Mr Ws personal vehicle shouldnt have  been covered under a commercial  policy.
Mr W added personal vehicles to the policy when he knew  it was for sale vehicles 
only.
Mr W had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk when he buys  his policy. He 
didnt do this as he was adding his own vehicles to a policy that hed said was only 
for cars he sold.
Mr Ws desire for a cheaper  premium led to manipulating the information he provided  
to achieve this.
Mr W contacted  DNA on 10 October 2016 to say he wanted  to cover his vehicle but 
hadnt been able to add it through  the portal as it was a classic car.
Its not for the broker to check the level of cover a policyholders chosen is suitable.
Mr W was fully aware he only had a £5,000 indemnity limit. This is the only limit 
shown in the documents and was also confirmed during the renewal call.
Mr W had access to his documents and should have queried why the indemnity limit 
wasnt suitable.
Mr W shouldnt  receive market  value for his vehicle as he hasnt proved how much  
he paid for it. The car also hasnt  been valued  by a qualified engineer. 
DNA said it would  look to judicially review my final decision if it was along  the same  lines as 
my provisional decision, due to the impact  it would have on the industry.  
Before issuing my final decision,  Mr W decided that he no longer wanted to keep  the 
salvage. I got in touch  with DNA  through our investigator to let it know  this, as well as to 
clarify what I thought  should have happened when  Mr W added the car on to his policy and 
at renewal. I said:
Firstly, Id like to set out what I think should have happened when DNA added  Mr Ws private 
vehicles onto his policy, and at renewal. Due to the value  of Mr Ws private vehicles I think  it 
was significant  that he only had £5,000 cover. Given that this was an advised sale,  I think  it 
Ref: DRN75621234would have been fair and reasonable for DNA to have highlighted this limitation to Mr W. I 
think DNA should have  specifically  pointed  out that his private vehicles didnt have  sufficient 
cover for their market  or trade value in the event of a total loss.
Mr W has said DNAs agent told him it was cheaper to cover all his private vehicles on the 
policy but didnt  tell him that meant they werent  properly  covered. DNA doesnt have a copy 
of the telephone call for this anymore and its notes dont  show  that it told him he wasnt 
covered for the trade or market value of his vehicles.
Given DNAs lack of evidence that it highlighted the limited cover  to Mr W, Im more 
persuaded by what hes told me, which is that he didnt know his private  vehicles were  only 
covered for £5,000 and that he wouldnt have bought the policy if hed known.
At renewal, I know DNA mentioned that Mr W had a £5,000  indemnity  limit on the renewal  
call and the schedule  shows  £5,000  (trade). However, I dont  think this is the same as DNA 
highlighting [that] his personal  vehicles  werent covered for their full value in the event of a 
loss. I also dont think setting it out in this way is clear enough to highlight  to Mr W that his 
own, more valuable vehicles, are also subject to this limit. DNA  recommended  this policy  to 
Mr W despite knowing that he only had limited cover in the event of a total loss and didnt  
highlight that its recommendation was based on him knowing  about this limited cover  for his
personal vehicles.
In addition to this Mr W has confirmed  that he no longer wants  to retain the salvage  of his 
vehicle. That means the redress set out in my provisional decision would remain unchanged.
DNA responded with some additional  points. I dont intend to list them all here but in 
summary they were:
DNA didnt advise Mr W to add his private  vehicle to the policy.
Mr W initially tried to add his car through the portal without any discussion of the 
policy limit.
DNA didnt specifically tell Mr W his car wasnt covered for its market value, but Mr W 
didnt query the limit and made  an assumption  his private vehicles  had a higher 
indemnity limit.
The indemnity  limit of £5,000 was confirmed  twice by DNA  during the renewal call.
Mr W is an experienced  motor trader who would have known the indemnity limit on 
the policy.
The wording from the demands and needs  statement is a generic statement that was 
widely used by brokers at the time.
Emails between DNA and Mr W show he chose this insurer  as cover was more 
expensive elsewhere.
DNA asked  me to reconsider my provisional  decision. DNA also confirmed that the insurer  
was responsible for the wording on the schedule.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered DNAs comments about  the effects of my decision on the industry,  but my 
decision is made on the individual circumstances of this complaint. In coming  to my decision 
Ref: DRN75621235Ive taken account of the law and industry  guidelines, but also made my decision on what  I 
think produces a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint. 
DNA has accepted  the sale and renewal were  advised but said it didnt advise Mr W to put 
his personal car on the policy. As the sales were advised that means DNA had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice, as well as providing information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. 
DNA said Mr W shouldnt have  added  his personal  car under  a commercial policy.  Ive 
looked at the renewal  invitation DNA sent Mr W in 2017 and this has a section vehicles 
owned but not for sale. It says private  vehicles  are an example of this. Mr Ws car is listed 
under this heading. Ive also listened  to the call where Mr W renewed his policy and the 
advisor confirms he needs social, domestic and pleasure use for his own vehicles. So, I think  
DNA knew this was a private vehicle.
I havent seen  anything in the policy to show Mr W shouldnt have added his car on to the 
policy and the insurer didnt raise that as an issue when dealing with the claim.  Also,  in an 
email to us DNA said, there  is no difference between  Trade vehicles and Personally Owned 
vehicles. 
In view of this I think Mr W was most likely allowed  to add his private vehicles to his trade  
policy. However, if he shouldnt have added a private vehicle,  then this is further  evidence  
that DNA  didnt take reasonable steps  to ensure the suitability of its advice when 
recommending the policy  to him at renewal, as it clearly  knew the car was Mr Ws private  
vehicle. 
DNA feels Mr W didnt  make a fair presentation of the risk by adding private vehicles to his 
policy, but I havent seen anything to persuade  me of this. DNA said Mr Ws desire  for a 
cheaper quote is evidence that he tried to manipulate  the information he provided to achieve 
that. Im not persuaded by this. Many policyholders look to obtain cheaper premiums  each 
year. Also, Mr W clearly  disclosed  both the value of his car and that it was his personal 
vehicle. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision DNA  provided an internal email that says Mr W had 
called because he hadnt been  able to log his car onto the policy through the portal. I can 
see the portal informed  Mr W that if the value he entered  exceeded the indemnity on the 
policy that hed only be covered up to the indemnity limit. However,  Mr W couldnt add his 
car through  the portal and needed to call up to do so. I can also see that the portal has a 
declaration that asks Mr W to confirm  the vehicle hes adding is for motor  trade purposes. 
And that wouldnt apply to his car, as it was privately  owned, so I can understand why he 
thought the indemnity limit mentioned was for his trade vehicles. 
I accept that if Mr W had been able to add his personal vehicle through  the portal DNA 
wouldnt have had the opportunity to let him know his personal vehicles werent covered for 
their market value. But that isnt what  happened,  as he did call. As the indemnity limit 
severely limits the cover for his private vehicles I think DNA should  have highlighted to him 
that his own vehicles were covered for less than a quarter  of their market  value.
I appreciate DNA confirmed there  was a £5,000  indemnity limit on the renewal call in 2017.  
But Mr W hasnt  disputed that he knew he had a £5,000 indemnity limit for his trade  vehicles. 
Only that he didnt know this also applied to his own private vehicles. DNA accepts it didnt 
Ref: DRN75621236specifically tell Mr W his own private vehicles werent covered for their market  value and I 
think it should have  done. I say that because at renewal DNA knew the value of Mr Ws car. 
The indemnity limit significantly limits cover  on the policy.  And as this was an advised sale I 
think DNA should have  specifically  highlighted  this limitation to him to check the policy was 
suitable. By not doing that I dont think it did enough to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
While the recommendation on the renewal form I referred to in my provisional decision  may 
be a generic phrase, DNA is required  to provide Mr W with information  thats  clear,  fair and 
not misleading. And in making a recommendation to him that this policy  was suitable, I think 
it should have  highlighted  to him that his private  vehicle wasnt covered for its market  value. 
Ive also considered DNAs point that Mr W had access to his documents  after buying  his 
policy. The schedule of insurance has a heading for Endorsements  operative  in respect of 
vehicles. The first entry in the list under  that says (CV30) Motor Trade  (COMP) indemnity 
£5,000. This makes it clear the indemnity limit for trade vehicles is £5,000.  Even though this 
was produced by the insurer, I think DNA  should  have done  more to point out to Mr W that 
this didnt only apply  to trade vehicles.
DNA said even if I was to uphold the complaint then Mr W shouldnt get market value as he 
hasnt shown how much  he paid for it and it hasnt been valued  by a qualified  engineer.  
However, I still think DNA paying  him the market value of his car is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this particular  complaint. Thats because to put things right I need to decide what  
would most  likely have  happened if DNA had taken reasonable  care to ensure the suitability 
of its advice. 
Mr W now has his private  vehicles  covered separately under a private policy. So, I still think 
thats what he would have most likely  done if hed known he didnt have the right level of 
cover. Most private car policies Ive seen pay the cars market  value  immediately before the 
loss. The insurers engineer produced retail values of between  £23,500  and £29,000 for the 
car and didnt indicate that it wasnt in a good  condition. Our longstanding approach to 
valuation complaints is to consider industry  trade  guides that we generally find a reliable 
means of establishing  a fair market value.  Thats because  theyre  based  on nationwide 
research of likely selling  prices. As I set out in my provisional findings  the guides  produced  
values of between  £18,275 and £25,500. When discounting the lowest value due to being 
out of line with the others I still think £24,953  is a fair and reasonable valuation,  as an 
average of the other three values. 
While Mr W may well have chosen to buy insurance through DNA  because other policies 
were more expensive,  I havent  seen anything  to show he couldnt get cover for his car 
elsewhere. And as DNA hasnt provided  me with any suggestion  for how much an alternative 
policy would have cost I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable to deduct £540  which  is 
the amount hes currently paying for a private  policy. 
That means I still think its fair for DNA  to deduct £2,478 from the settlement, as the amount  
Mr W would  have paid for alternative  policies  to cover his private vehicles. As well as 
deducting £550 as the excess  he would have paid and £5,000  that hes been paid by the 
insurer. DNA is also entitled to the salvage of the vehicle upon payment of the settlement. 
In summary,  I dont think DNA took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice 
when renewing  Mr Ws policy in 2017.  To put things right DNA should pay Mr W £16,925 to 
put him back  in the position hed have been in if he had the correct  level of cover.  Due to the 
Ref: DRN75621237time hes been without  the money  it should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date of the fire to the date it makes  payment.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint and 
require DNA  Insurance Services Ltd to pay Mr W £16,925, adding interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per year, calculated from the date of the fire to the date it makes  payment1. Upon 
payment of this the ownership of the salvage should  be passed to DNA Insurance  Services  
Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If DNA Insurance Services  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7562123