K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund debit card transactions  that she says 
she didnt make or authorise.
background
Miss J told HSBC that she didnt recognise a number of transactions made online using her 
debit card at the end of October  and beginning of November 2017.  They  ended  once  she 
reported her card as lost or stolen.
HSBC investigated  and has refunded some of the transactions. But it has refused to 
reimburse ones that were  made to a gambling  website.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He considered it was most likely 
that it could have been an ex-partner or friend  of Miss Js that had managed to obtain her 
card details to carry out the transactions. He didnt think she had consented  to this 
happening.
HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said that Miss J had been  inconsistent and not totally 
plausible about  what had happened. Whilst it accepted that some of the transactions  had 
been carried out by a third party it didnt think that person  had attempted all the disputed 
payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out 
and for much the same reasons.
The disputed transactions were made  in October  and November 2017.  The regulations 
relevant to these  are the Payment Service Regulations 2009. In short, the regulations say 
that HSBC can hold Miss J liable  for the disputed items if the evidence  suggests that she 
most likely made or authorised them herself or if they were made possible because she was 
sufficiently negligent  in the care of her card or security details. 
So my primary  concern is to come  to a view about whether or I not I think  Miss J authorised  
these payments. But for me to be satisfied whether they were  authorised,  I first need to 
determine whether  they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence HSBC has provided  that whoever made the transactions had both the genuine 
card details and the three digit number on the reverse  of the card (CVV). I say this because 
HSBC has shown that the online  merchants  have shown that they matched  the card details  
and CVV to Miss Js genuine address.
So Ive then thought about  whether  HSBC  has enough evidence  to suggest Miss J carried 
out or authorised the transactions.  I cant know for sure what  happened in this case  so I 
must make my decision based on the balance of the evidence.
Ref: DRN71262222HSBC has already refunded transactions made to two online  merchants. It accepts that 
although Miss Js card was used  the purchases were sent to or used by a third party  at a 
different address to hers. The email address used for these was also different to the one 
Miss J had registered with HSBC  and the IP address used  to make the purchases was 
located in the general  area that the purchases were delivered to.
When these transactions  first took place towards the end of October 2017 an online 
gambling account was opened in Miss Js name. Her name,  address,  postcode,  date of birth 
and debit card details, including the last three security  digits (CVV) on the reverse  of the 
card, were  entered.  Im satisfied that Miss Js address and the CVV were verified at the time. 
Her date of birth also matched the one recorded  in HSBCs records.  But, again, the email 
address given was the one used for the online purchases.  
Miss J says that she didnt sign up for this account and she didnt  authorise  anyone else to. 
The account  was used for transactions totalling in excess of £4,000. HSBC decided  not to 
refund these because  the account  details matched  Miss Js and it found it unusual  for an 
unknown party to using  a betting account from which they couldnt  profit.
During the time the gambling  transactions were taking place, a number  of payday loans were 
applied for in Miss Js name. I have carefully looked  at all the details  provided  for these 
loans. Whilst Miss Js genuine date of birth and home address were used, the email address 
is the same  one used  for the gambling account  and purchases.  The IP address from which 
the applications were made was the same as the one used to make  the purchases.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Miss J made the payments, opened the 
gambling account or authorised the payments herself or consented to someone else doing 
so. The IP address used for the purchases and payday loans is located  in the area where 
the individual that received the goods lives, which isnt in the same  area as Miss Js home.  
The email  address given for all the disputed loans  and gambling account  is consistent and 
one that Miss J says is not hers. I think it was one that was set up at the time so Miss J was 
unaware of what was happening. It appears to have  been  set up using the same service  
provider as the one used  by the person making  the purchases, which  is different to the 
service provider for Miss Js email.
Given that the person carrying out the transactions knew Miss Js address and date of birth I 
dont think they were unknown to her. The last genuine  transactions on the account took 
place on 1 November  2017 when the card and PIN were both used. The first disputed  
transactions took place three  days earlier. These were online and the first few were declined 
before a £1 payment was authorised. I think this shows that someone was testing the card 
before a larger transaction took place about  15 minutes later.
I dont think it likely  that someone unknown to Miss J took her card and then returned  it for 
her to use. The card was used for genuine  transactions in the area that Miss J lived.  It was 
also used online the same day using the IP address located in a different area. I think  it is 
possible that whoever  used  Miss Js card was well known to her and took the card details, 
without her consent, possibly without taking  the card itself.  I say this because  Miss J has 
said that someone might have been able to do this when they were out together or when the 
card was in her bag at home. They then used  the details to make the online purchase and 
set up the online accounts.
HSBC says that the gambling account  wouldnt  be of any benefit to someone else, which is 
why it is holding Miss J liable. Whilst I accept this, I dont  consider that the motivation for 
Ref: DRN71262223gambling is always financial. I think it is more likely that the person who carried out the 
activity used Miss Js money and ran up debts in her name because they had nothing to 
lose. 
Miss J used  the card on 1 November 2017 for genuine expenditure and she reported it lost 
or stolen  on 7 November  2017. She says that she only noticed that it was missing  the day 
before. HSBC told Miss J that the card had been  cancelled immediately and that it wouldnt 
work. Despite this I see that there  were  further  attempts over the following days  to use the 
card both for gambling and online purchases. I think this shows that an unauthorised person 
was attempting  to use the card without  knowing it had been cancelled. There  were also other  
payday lenders  checking  the account  after the cancellation date. I dont  consider  it likely that 
Miss J would have done this, given that she knew the card wouldnt work.
Whilst I cant say for certain at what point Miss Js card disappeared, I do find, on balance, 
that it is most likely  that someone well known to Miss J took and replaced it before taking it 
again. I appreciate  that Miss J has said that she doesnt know who this person is but I think it 
must be someone who was reasonably close to her because, not only could  they take and 
replace the card or have  access  to all its details, but they used  her personal details to set up 
various online accounts. As Ive said the IP address used for this activity  was located  in the 
area that the online purchases were delivered to. I dont think Miss J would  have given her 
authority to someone  to do all of this. 
As Im not persuaded that Miss J authorised  the transactions, HSBC should  refund all the 
disputed transactions  made using a credit  facility.
I have also considered whether Miss J has acted with gross negligence. This means that she 
must have  acted in a way that was beyond negligent   so something more  than failing  to 
take proper care. I dont think she has. She hasnt divulged her PIN. I consider someone  
close to her was able to take her card without her knowledge either when they were out 
together or from her own home. 
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think HSBC has provided enough evidence to 
show that Miss J carried out or authorised the disputed transactions. So it should:
1.Refund the disputed transactions in full
2.Refund any interest or charges it applied to the account  when  it was overdrawn
3.Pay interest of 8% simple on the amount refunded from the date of the transaction to the 
date of the refund (this does not apply for when the account  was overdrawn)*
4.Remove any adverse  information it has reported  about this from her credit  file
5.Provide Miss J with a letter confirming it has refunded the transactions in dispute
**HM Revenue  & Customs requires HSBC  to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must  give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN71262224my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank plc to put matters 
right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7126222