K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response from Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) when he asked it to 
send him a new card. 
background
Mr B contacted Vanquis to send him a new card in 2018. Vanquis told Mr B that as the 
address hed given was registered to a public property; it couldnt send him the card to this 
address.  
Mr B complained to Vanquis in December 2018  about its decision not to send him a card to 
the address hed requested. Vanquis  responded in February 2019. Vanquis explained that 
the decision not to send  the card to the address Mr B had requested  was fair. It said that it 
could arrange  to send Mr B a card to an address of his choosing, and a suspension would 
be placed on his account until Mr B called Vanquis  to activate it. Vanquis apologised for not 
taking into account  Mr Bs circumstances when the decision not to send the card was made. 
Vanquis offered  £50 in recognition of this.
Mr B was unhappy with the compensation offered by Vanquis  and referred  his complaint to 
this service. When sending his complaint to us Mr B said that a new card had been issued to 
him to a residential  address  hed given to Vanquis. The investigator  didnt recommend 
Vanquis pay anymore  compensation.  Mr B disagreed with these findings,  and referred to 
previous court decisions and legislation in support of his position. As the complaint couldnt  
be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
When reviewing the evidence, Ive seen that Vanquis and Mr B have provided  different 
information about the complaint circumstances.  In his complaint form to us Mr B has said 
that said that Vanquis refused to send new replacement card to the address hed given, but 
it did later issue  a new card to a residential  address he provided. Vanquis  say that Mr B has 
been using the same card since July 2018,  and no new card has been  issued to him since. 
When Mr B contacted Vanquis in December 2018,  he referred to events that had happened 
recently. So Ive reviewed the complaint  on the basis that Mr Bs complaint relates  to events 
that happened around December 2018.  Vanquis  say Mr B has had the same card since July 
2018. Although  I havent seen any evidence to clarify  whether  a new card was issued to 
Mr B as he says, I dont think this affects  my overall decision on the case. 
Mr Bs complaint is about Vanquis decision to refuse  to send a card to a public address. 
Vanquis have explained  that the reason for this wouldve been to protect  Mr B from fraud. 
Although I can understand Mr Bs frustrations with Vanquis decision,  I think this decision  
was fair. Vanquis has a responsibility to protect its customers. I think  Vanquis sending  Mr Bs 
card to a public address wouldve increased  the risk of fraud happening. So I can see why 
they didnt agree to do this.
Ref: DRN76090932Ive seen that in February 2019  Vanquis  gave Mr B the option to receive  a card by recorded  
delivery, which Mr B would have to activate once received. From what Mr B had said, he 
didnt need a new card at this time,  because  he says a new card had already been sent to a 
residential address  hed given to Vanquis. But Ive still considered  whether  Vanquis 
complaint response  to Mr B was fair. 
When Mr B contacted Vanquis in December 2018,  Mr Bs circumstances  wouldve been  
known to Vanquis. I think it wouldve  been  helpful to find out more  about his reasons for 
requesting a new card, and other ways of payment Mr B had access  to. I cant  see that 
Vanquis did this. But I think the £50 offered is fair compensation in recognising that Vanquis 
couldve handled things  better. Vanquis couldve asked more information about  Mr Bs 
circumstances, which in turn wouldve meant that the option to send a card by recorded 
delivery wouldve  been explained. Because it didnt  do this, Mr B didnt find out about this 
option until February 2019 (by which point it looks like it wasnt an issue for Mr B).
Vanquis has provided statements from November 2018 to May 2019 to show  account 
activity for Mr Bs account with it. Vanquis say Mr B has only had one account, and the last 
card for this account  was replaced  in July 2018. From  review of the statements it looks like 
this account has been used regularly.  I cant see any period during from November 2018 to 
May 2019 which would indicate that Mr B has been  without a card.  So it doesnt look like 
Mr B has been negatively impacted by Vanquis  decision to refuse sending a replacement 
card. 
Mr B says that we should refer to previous court decisions when deciding on his complaint, 
and has provided  examples.  I can appreciate  Mr Bs frustrations with whats happened.  But 
its not the role of this service to determine  a complaint the way a court would do. The 
decisions that we make are based on what we think is fair and reasonable, but having regard 
to relevant laws and regulations.
In this case, I think Vanquis couldve done  more to understand Mr Bs reasons for requesting 
a new card. It doesnt look like this was done  until Mr Bs complaint was looked at. I think  the 
£50 compensation  offered by Vanquis  in recognition of how they couldve handled things 
better is fair. So I wont be recommending anymore compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609093