K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out with personal loans between 2003 and 2008. Miss B says Number  One Police 
Credit Union Limited, trading as Number One Copper Pot Credit  Union (NOCPU) mis-
sold her the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold  
Miss Bs complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further comments  and information  
before I reached a final decision.
Neither Miss B or NOCPU  had anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  monthly  premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies taken out 
with personal  loans  between 2003 and 2008. Miss B says Number  One Police  Credit Union 
Limited, trading as Number One Copper Pot Credit Union  (NOCPU)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss B took out PPI policies  with personal  loans as per the following: -
Loan Date of sale Sales channel
Ref: DRN77036572Loan 1 July 2003 Face to face
Loan 2 October 2003 Face to face
Loan 3 May 2004 Telephone application was taken and documents were sent to 
Miss B to complete, sign and return
Loan 4 July 2004 Telephone application was taken and documents were sent to 
Miss B to complete, sign and return
Loan 5 September 2004 Face to face
Loan 6 November 2004 Telephone application was taken and documents were sent to 
Miss B to complete, sign and return
Loan 7 July 2005 Postal
Loan 8 September 2005 Postal
Loan 9 November 2006 Postal
Loan 10 July 2007 Postal
Loan 11 March 2008 Postal
Miss B did take other loans  but they did not include PPI. Ive only looked at the loans which  had 
PPI attached.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint.  Miss B didnt  agree  so its now been passed to me 
to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Miss Bs case.
Im intending  to not uphold the complaint  and Ill explain why. 
To be clear:
 Miss Bs employment circumstances  remained  the same for all the sales;  and
 unless specifically stated, the PPI provided  accident and sickness cover only.
Miss B has said PPI was not explained to her and she doesnt remember  selecting it in her 
applications. NOCPU  have said the optional  nature of the policy  would have been clear and it 
would have been up to Miss B to decide if she wanted the cover or not. Where theres  a dispute 
about what happened, I have  to base my decision on what I think  is most likely  to have happened, 
taking into account all the evidence that is available.
Loans 1, 2 and 5
The sales for these loans  took place face to face. NOCPU has provided  the applications for all these 
loans. I can see there is a clear option to select or decline PPI and PPI has been selected in all of 
them. NOCPU has also provided  the agreements for all these  loans and I can say it says that PPI is 
included. If Miss B didnt want PPI she could have declined to take it. So having  taken everything in 
to consideration I think NOCPU made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant remember this now many years later.
Loans 3, 4 and 6
Ref: DRN77036573These sales were part of a telephone application where  following a telephone conversation, the 
application and agreement were sent to Miss B to complete, and sign and return.
NOCPU has provided the applications for all these loans. I can see that there is a clear  option to 
select or decline  PPI and PPI has been  selected in all of them. NOCPU has also provided  the 
agreements for all these loans and I can say it says that PPI is included.  If Miss B didnt want PPI 
she could have declined  to take it. So having taken everything in to consideration I think NOCPU 
made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant remember this now many years later.
Loans 7 to 11
In these  sales, NOCPU has said Miss B requested the application form to be sent. Once the 
application was completed, it was sent back  to NOCPU. Following this, the agreement would  be 
drawn up and sent to Miss B to sign and return.
NOCPU has provided the applications for all these loans. I can see there  are three options:
 to take out accident,  sickness  and unemployment  (ASU);
 to take out accident  and sickness  cover only (AS); or
 to decline to take any PPI cover.
Apart from loan 10, where Miss B selected ASU cover, I can see Miss B selected the AS option 
for the other  loans and signed all the applications. She had the option to decline to take PPI 
altogether so I think its more  likely than not that she wanted  PPI.
NOCPU has also provided the agreements for all these loans. There  is another opportunity for 
Miss B to select  or decline PPI, as well as confirm the cover she wants (ASU or AS). I can see in 
all the agreements she has selected yes for PPI and confirmed the cover she wants  by crossing  
out the option  she doesnt  want.
So having taken everything in to consideration  I think NOCPU made  it clear  that Miss B didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this now many  years later.
For all the sales, NOCPU has said they didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss B got the information  she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information  NOCPU gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking  out the cover.
Miss B has said she would have received six months full followed by six months half sick pay from 
her employer if she was too ill to work. But the policy  provided accident and sickness cover for up 
to 24 months  per claim (as well as unemployment cover for 24 months per claim for loan 10). So I 
still believe it would have been useful  for her if something went wrong
Ive also thought  about  the commission Miss B paid on her policy   and whether  NOCPU
treated her unfairly.
NOCPU has told us that the commission for Miss Bs policy was less than half of what  she paid for 
each premium. Weve  looked  at how NOCPU  has been  working this out and based on what  weve 
seen it looks like its right  Miss Bs commission was less than half the cost of the policy. As 
Ref: DRN77036574thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission   so I dont think NOCPU 
treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Miss B back any of the commission she 
paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN7703657