K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that Kapama  Limited  have asked  her to repay too much  towards  the loan 
she took out with a different lender.
background
In 2012, Miss J took out a pay day loan for £170  with a lender. The account fell into arrears 
and the lender applied  charges  to the account   the total balance  Miss J owed to the lender 
was £2,191.60. The balance was made up as follows:
Loan amount:  £170
Interest charges: £201.60
Debt collection charges: £100
Default charge 1: £25
Default charge 2: £50
Attempt charges:  £1,645.00
A third party  was instructed to collect repayments  on behalf of the lender. This same 
business, a sister company of Kapama  was then instructed by Kapama to collect the 
remaining balance after Kapama  bought the debt in December 2014. When Kapama took 
the debt over, the balance  was £632.10.  Miss J has since  repaid this balance in full.
Miss J complains  because the amount she repaid for the loan was far more than the amount 
she originally borrowed. She also says she couldnt afford to repay the loan and she asked 
the lender if she could  set up a repayment  plan to help her  she says the lender refused. 
The third party who collected the debt responded to Miss Js complaint on behalf of Kapama. 
It explained why it didnt think the lender had lent irresponsibly. It also said that the fees the 
lender applied to the account were  in line with the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
and so it didnt  think Miss J ought  to receive a refund. It also confirmed that neither it (the 
debt collector) nor Kapama had applied fees of any kind to Miss Js account.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She was of the opinion that Miss J 
was right to pay interest and some of the charges that were  applied as a result of the loan 
falling into arrears. She also agreed that Miss J should pay the principal sum of the loan as 
she had the benefit of the money.
But she upheld the complaint because  she thought  Kapama ought to have made  better 
enquiries before it bought the debt. Had it done  this, it would have  been  apparent  that the 
outstanding debt mainly consisted  of attempt  charges  which she felt were unfair and 
excessive. In her view, she felt Kapama shouldnt have bought the debt and should refund to 
Miss J the amount she had paid to Kapama  after it bought the debt in December 2014. 
To resolve  the complaint,  the investigator  said Kapama should  pay Miss J back  the £632.10 
that she paid it and add 8% per year simple  interest on the payments. She also asked 
Kapama to amend Miss Js credit file to show that the debt was repaid in full in 
December 2014.
The investigator confirmed that she wouldnt be looking  at the affordability of the loan as 
these checks were  carried out by the lender  and this complaint is about Kapama who 
subsequently bought  the debt. 
Ref: DRN75242462Kapama didnt  agree with the investigators  findings for a number of reasons. It said:
It felt it was unfair to ask Kapama  to refund money to Miss J that was initially  applied  
by the lender. It says the balance it bought  was wholly calculated  by the lender and 
so Kapama shouldnt be responsible for this.
The charges  that were  applied to Miss Js account were part of the terms and 
conditions of the borrowing. 
The sale of the portfolio of debt to Kapama was overseen by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and so they should have said something  if they 
thought the balances  that were being bought  were too high.
It asked for an explanation of how the investigator came to the view that Kapama 
didnt make reasonable enquiries  into the balance of Miss Js account.
Kapama would like to discuss the case with an ombudsman before the decision is 
made.
Because Kapama didnt agree with our investigator  the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision on the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on everything  Ive seen, Im 
upholding this complaint. And Ill explain why below.
Kapama asked  to be contacted by an ombudsman before a decision was issued. Our 
investigator asked both Miss J and Kapama to let us know  if there  was anything else it would  
like this service  to consider before a decision  was issued. And so I dont think  it necessary  
for me to speak to Kapama direct.  It has had the same opportunity as Miss J to provide 
information to support  its case.
For the avoidance of doubt, when Miss J first complained to us, she told us that she was 
unhappy that she took out a loan for what was a relatively small amount and was then asked 
to pay back much more than the initial loan. So this complaint isnt about how the loan was 
initially sold  or that the lender acted irresponsibly when it lent to Miss J in the first instance.
Miss J didnt  mention  Kapama by name in her initial submission,  but I can understand why. 
There have been  three  businesses  involved with this debt  the initial  lender, a third party  
collecting the funds  on behalf of both the lender and Kapama; and then Kapama,  who 
bought the debt from the lender. So it isnt surprising that Miss J was confused  about  whom 
her complaint should be directed to  and it is part of our role to help consumers to find the 
right business responsible  for the complaint they want  to make.  And weve done that in this 
case.
In relation to the debt in general, lenders are regulated under rules in the Consumer  Credit  
Sourcebook (or CONC). CONC 7.7.5 says:
A firm must not impose charges on customers in default or arrears  
difficulties unless the charges are no higher than necessary to cover the 
reasonable costs  of the firm.
Ref: DRN75242463And, The Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) guidance on debt collection said:
charges should not be levied inappropriately or unfairly
It also went on to say:
an unreasonable charge in this context would be a charge, the level of 
which is not based on the recovery  of actual necessary costs.
The total loan Miss J borrowed was £371.60 (the amount of the loan plus interest). The 
lender charged  Miss J an additional £1,820 in fees. With the above rules  and guidance in 
mind, I find it very unlikely that it cost £1,820 to recover  a debt of £371.60. While I agree that 
Miss J had the benefit of the loan amount  so she should pay this, and she did default on the 
loan so some charges  should also be paid, in my view, the total charges the lender applied 
to the account  were  excessive in comparison to the amount Miss J borrowed.
So while I appreciate Kapamas point that the terms and conditions  state  charges would be 
applied in certain circumstances, the terms and conditions also need to be applied  in line 
with rules and guidance.  And I dont think they have been.
Kapama wasnt the lender in this case, and it says it didnt apply any charges to the account. 
Based on what Ive seen  I think this is correct. But I think  Kapama needs to accept  some  
responsibility here. Ive seen information  Kapama  sent to Miss J that is a breakdown  of the 
balance it says she owed.  This breakdown clearly shows that much of her outstanding 
balance was made up of charges that appear  to be excessive  and I think  this information  
would have been available to Kapama when it purchased the debt. 
When Kapama bought the debt, Miss J had already  made repayments of £1,559.50 to the 
lender  which in my opinion is more than enough  to cover the lenders reasonable costs. 
Because of this, I think Kapama ought to have waived the balance outstanding  to Miss J 
when it bought the debt  or it should have chosen not to buy it in the first instance. 
So while I appreciate Kapamas comments in that it didnt apply the charges to the account  
and so it shouldnt  be held responsible for how the outstanding balance  was calculated, I do 
think it should have  done more to check the debt it was buying was made up of reasonable 
charges  which I dont  think  it did in this case.
I cant comment on what involvement  the FCA had in the purchase of the debts Kapama 
bought from the lender. It is my role to look at individual  complaints and decide what  is fair in 
the circumstances of that particular complaint. And having done so, I think  Kapama should 
have done more.
When Kapama bought the debt in December 2014,  it said Miss J owed £632.10 and shes 
since paid this. To put things right for Miss J, I think Kapama should refund the £632.10 she 
paid it. It should  pay her back 8% simple  interest on each of the payments from the date they 
were made until the day they are refunded  to compensate her for the time shes  been out 
of pocket. And I also think Kapama should  update Miss Js credit file to show the debt was 
settled in December  2014.
Ref: DRN75242464my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I order Kapama Limited to:
Refund to Miss J all the payments she has made since Kapama Limited bought  the 
debt.
Pay Miss J simple  interest on the refunds at 8% a year from the dates she made 
those payments to the date the refunds are made. If Kapama  considers it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell 
Miss J how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one so that she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Amend Miss Js credit file to show that the debt was fully settled in December 2014.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524246