K820x#14complaint
Miss B and Mr D complain that Metro Bank PLC misled them  about  whether their mortgage 
application was likely  to be successful. Miss B has dealt with the complaint throughout. She 
asks that Metro Bank refund  the fees they paid. 
 
background
Miss B contacted Metro Bank as she and Mr D wanted a mortgage to help finance the 
purchase of a property.  She told Metro Bank theyd been declined  by another lender  as the 
property was near commercial premises. Metro  Banks adviser said this wasnt  a problem so 
Miss B and Mr D went ahead with their application. However, after the property valuation 
was carried out, Metro Bank declined their application.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Metro  
Bank didnt  give Miss B incorrect information about its lending  criteria. Metro Bank didnt 
decline the application because the property was near commercial premises.  It declined to 
lend because the surveyor said it didnt believe there was a sustainable market  for the 
property.
Miss B and Mr D didnt agree. Miss B said Metro Bank should have told her that it considers 
property near commercial premises a risk and shed have known not to go ahead with the 
application. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss B called Metro  Bank in November  2018.  Ive listened to the call. Miss B said another  
lender had declined to lend because the property  was opposite a pub. She said the property 
was a house and in a residential area, although  there were commercial  premises  in the road 
and next door to the property. 
Metro Bank  said its criteria didnt prevent it lending. It said it wouldnt lend if the property was 
a flat above or adjacent to commercial premises which  posed  a fire risk. But a house 
opposite a pub wouldnt be a problem. It said its criteria wouldnt prevent it lending  due to 
having commercial  premises next door, but it would  depend on the surveyors  comments. 
Miss B and Mr D went ahead with the application.  The surveyor  visited  the property in early 
2019. The surveyor said the property wasnt suitable  security  due to not meeting Metro 
Banks requirements as it was next to and facing commercial premises.  Metro  Bank  queried  
this with the surveyor. The surveyor said it didnt believe  there  was a sustainable market for 
the property. He said the road had plenty  of bars and restaurants  and busy nightlife. 
Metro Bank  declined Miss B and Mr Ds mortgage  application. 
Ref: DRN70800092Miss B says she doesnt  dispute that Metro Bank can decline the application. Her complaint  
is that Metro Bank should have been clearer  when she first contacted it about the risk it 
wouldnt lend. 
I dont think Metro Bank misled Miss B about whether the property was likely to meet  its 
lending criteria. Miss B made Metro Bank aware  that there were commercial premises near 
the property, including retail premises next door and a pub opposite. But this didnt mean it 
didnt meet Metro  Banks criteria. The problem was that the surveyor  didnt believe there  was 
a sustainable  market for the property. This wouldnt necessarily be the case  just because 
there were commercial premises nearby. And Metro Bank was clear that whether the 
property was suitable security would depend  on the surveyors comments. 
Metro Bank  told Miss B it might make  an exception if the loan to value ratio was lower. This 
would only be helpful to Miss B if she could have increased her deposit  to reduce the loan to 
value ratio below 60%.  And it was unfortunate that Metro Bank referred  wrongly to her 
applying for a 90% loan. But I dont think Metro Bank intended  to mislead  or upset  Miss B 
when it told her this.
Miss B paid fees when she applied for the mortgage. Metro Bank refunded  the £999 
arrangement fee. I understand  that Miss B is disappointed that the mortgage application was 
declined. But I dont  think Metro Bank  made an error  that would  make  it fair and reasonable 
to require it to pay compensation or refund the valuation  fee or other fees Miss B and Mr D 
agreed to pay. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7080009