K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains on that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2006 Mr G took out a personal  loan with Lloyds. At the same  time he took out a single 
premium PPI policy to protect  his loan repayments. The policy wouldve covered his loan 
repayments if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness for the duration of the 
loan and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy wouldve 
been presented  as optional and wouldve suited his needs.
Mr G disagrees.  He says he wasnt given the proper information on the policy  and he didnt  
need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G applied for a loan during a meeting at a branch  of Lloyds. Lloyds had to make  it clear to 
Mr G he had a choice  in taking the PPI and it was separate from the loan. Mr G said this 
wasnt done but he hasnt given much  detail about  why he thinks  this. So to help me reach 
my decision  Ive considered what Mr Gs said and looked at the loan agreement together  
with what we know about Lloyds sales process.
I can see on Mr Gs loan agreement PPI has been  included and the cost is set out 
separately from the loan cost under  the heading Loan for Loan Protection  Insurance. 
From what  I understand of the sales process  I think its likely that there wouldve been a 
discussion between the sales  adviser  and Mr G about PPI and if PPI was wanted it wouldve 
been included  on the loan agreement. And I think Mr G wouldve understood he had a 
choice in taking  the policy as if it was compulsory I wouldnt expect to see the costs set out 
separately.
Further down the loan agreement I can see Mr G has signed for the loan and then just below 
this has signed  a second time after placing a tick next to the words I wish to purchase  Loan 
Protection Insurance. If Mr G didnt want PPI I dont  think  he wouldve signed and ticked  
confirming he wanted to take the cover. 
So I think it wouldve been clear  to Mr G at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional and Mr G choose to take the policy because  he wanted  
the cover. And based on what  Mr G has told us I cant say its likely Lloyds did do things to 
make Mr G think the PPI wasnt optional.
Ref: DRN76542332Lloyds advised  Mr G to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr G could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr G for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Mr G says he was entitled to sick pay which he could use to make 
his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve  paid out on top of his sick 
pay and for potentially longer covering his repayments for the duration of the loan if 
he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness and for up to 12 months  if he lost 
his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a useful  benefit to Mr G in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time.  I note 
that if he cancelled  the policy he wouldnt have received  a pro-rata refund. But theres 
nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve needed the flexibility  to cancel the 
policy early.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr G information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the PPI out. I can see that the costs are clear from the loan agreement but I dont 
know if Lloyds gave  all the proper information  as it shouldve.
But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Mr G has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been  
given all the proper  information by Lloyds.   
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Ref: DRN76542333But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr G about  that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy one wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7654233