K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined her claim under her travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Ms M made  a claim to UKI when her handbag was stolen from the beach whilst she was on 
holiday. She also included a claim for her sunglasses. 
UKI declined  the claim. It said that the bag was unattended  and the policy  terms and 
conditions excluded claims for unattended personal  belongings. UKI also declined the claim 
for the sunglasses. It raised a number of concerns about the sunglasses claim stating that 
Ms Ms recollection  of events was inconsistent. Ms M stated the sunglasses  were lost in the 
sea. But UKI maintain that Ms M initially said that the sunglasses  had been stolen with the 
bag. So it refused to pay.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said the bag was attended by a friend, 
and as such that part of the claim should  be paid. But she said there wasnt enough  
evidence to support  Ms Ms claim for the sunglasses. So she didnt ask UKI to do any more. 
UKI didnt  agree with the outcome and its asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint in part. 
I need to decide whether UKI has taken a fair approach when paying Ms M's claim. Having 
carefully considered  all the evidence I dont think UKIs approach was fair. So Ill explain how 
I think UKI should fairly settle this complaint.  
the policy cover
The policy says it will not cover any claim for baggage that you have left unattended  unless 
it has been stolen  from your locked personal accommodation, a safe or safety deposit box or 
motor vehicle
Unattended is defined as not in your full view and where you are not in a position to prevent 
unauthorised taking of your property unless it is in a locked room or safe.  Property left in a 
vehicle is unattended unless the vehicle is locked and the items  are hidden from view in an 
enclosed boot, luggage or storage compartment. Property left in a trailer,  caravan or storage 
box is unattended unless it is hidden from view and that trailer, caravan  or storage box is 
locked.
Ref: DRN72431042the bag
Ive listened to the call where  UKI call Ms M to decline the claim for her stolen bag. The 
agent from UKI says in this call that as Ms M wasnt in full view of the bag at the time it was 
stolen it was deemed to be unattended and UKI was declining  the claim.  
UKI in its correspondence with the Financial Ombudsman Service  says that Ms M goes to 
visit friends in this country regularly and that she was shocked at the theft as it is such a 
quiet place and nothing like this ever happens  there.  UKI say that it thinks  it's quite possible 
Ms M and friends were not thinking  anything would ever happen and maybe their guards 
were down and they were  not as cautious  with their belongings  as they should  have  been.  
UKI also say that Ms M advised  that the friend  in charge of the bags had nodded off. So 
therefore nobody  was able to keep  the belongings in their view or be a deterrent to stop the 
theft of the bag. This in effect means  the bags were  unattended when Ms Ms bag and her 
friends bags were stolen.  
UKI say that even  though  it wouldnt expect  Ms M to take her bags into the sea with her, by 
leaving the bag it was technically unattended by the policy definition.  UKI state It is not our 
own Oxford  English dictionary  definition of unattended  (i.e there  was a person in attendance) 
that matters here. The person the bags were left with did not in fact take care of them  but 
went to sleep; therefore they were  unable to prevent the theft of the two bags.
In terms of whether  the bag was unattended Im inclined to agree with our adjudicator. Ms M 
recognised a risk and asked her friend to mind her bag. So I dont think Ms M acted 
unreasonably.
But was this friend in a position to prevent the theft? Ive listened  to the call when Ms M first 
reported the theft. This was a number of days after shed returned to the UK. Ms M says that 
she and her friend went into the sea, and their other  friend was with the bags. Ms M says her 
friend may have nodded  off or fell asleep,  but she didnt see anything. But I cant  see 
where UKI have followed up on this comment. In fact it would seem that UKI have just taken 
this comment as a fact and assumed that Ms Ms friend fell asleep.
 I dont know if Ms Ms friend did or didnt fall asleep. But I cant  see that UKI ever checked 
what really happened. So in the absence of any further evidence we asked Ms M to ask her 
friend what happened. Ms Ms friend has advised that she was sunbathing  on a towel  with 
her own bag under her head as a pillow. And the bags were beside  her also covered  with 
towels (as each person  was using their own bag as a pillow).  She didnt notice anyone  
stealing the bags until Ms M and her friend  came back and realised the bags were  missing.
I can see the point  that UKI is making, but I think this is an unreasonable  interpretation of its 
policy terms. It would in effect mean that a person must not only be in a position to observe 
any attempt of theft but also must observe the items without interruption. I dont think  that 
attending  means Ms M or her friend  had to maintain direct  sight at all times.
On the evidence available to me I find that Ms Ms friend was looking after the bags. She 
was in close proximity to them, as they were right beside her. She was able to observe the 
bags from where she was lying. I dont think the bags were unattended.  And she didnt fail to 
take reasonable care of them. 
Ref: DRN72431043Based on the evidence  we have I cant see that there was any breach of the policy terms 
and conditions by Ms M. So I uphold  this part of the complaint, and I recommend that UKI 
pay the claim for the stolen bag and its contents as per the remaining  terms and conditions  
of the policy.
sunglasses
Ms M has also claimed for a pair of prescription sunglasses. Ms M says she lost these in the 
sea when she was hit by a wave. UKI say that the circumstances surrounding the loss of the 
sunglasses have changed and the description of what happened is inconsistent. And 
because of this its not willing to pay the claim. UKI say that Ms M initially said the 
sunglasses were in her bag that was stolen. But this story changed in a later call. 
Our investigator agreed with UKI. She said from  listening to the call, Ms M confirmed that 
that the sunglasses were  in the bag and she never  once mentioned that they were  lost at 
sea.
I agree  that there seems  to be some confusion about what  happened  to the sunglasses. 
When the claim for the bag is declined, Ms M seems confused about the sunglasses claim.  
She cant understand why its not being  considered. But this is the third call between  both 
parties. Yet its the first time that the circumstances of the loss of the sunglasses seem  to 
have come to light. And having listened  to the initial claims call between UKI and Ms M, I 
cant see that the loss of the sunglasses in the sea was discussed.  Its implied  that the 
sunglasses are part of the claim for the bag. And even though  I appreciate that Ms M never 
directly says the sunglasses were  in the bag, she answers yes when asked to confirm they 
were in the bag. The alternative circumstances of how the sunglasses came to be missing  
only came  to light after the claim was declined. And I havent  seen any evidence  to support 
this version of events.  
Given the confusion  surrounding the loss of the sunglasses, I think  UKI has made the correct 
decision not to settle this part of the claim. So I wont be asking it do anything further in 
relation to the claim for the sunglasses. 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN72431044I require UK Insurance Limited to:
pay Ms Ms claim  for her stolen bag and contents only (excluding the sunglasses), 
subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess. It must add interest* to the 
remaining payment  at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
*If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
.
Ref: DRN7243104