K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy with the interest  that has been added  to her account by Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited.
background 
Miss B has an account with Very, which is provided by Shop Direct. Last January, Miss B 
used the online ordering system to buy some  items  on her Very account,  but had to call after 
placing her order.
During the call, Miss B was told her order was awaiting authorisation given that she hadnt 
used the account in quite  some time, that she was sending the goods  to a different address  
and because the value of her order meant  her credit limit needed to be increased. The 
conversation resulted  in Miss Bs order being successfully placed and a direct  debit  set up to 
pay it off.
The call handler explained  the options  for repaying the balance  she could pay it in full, pay 
it off via three equal monthly instalments (the Take 3 option)  either of which method 
means no interest will be charged  or make minimum monthly payments. The call handler 
wrongly told Miss B that if she chose the minimum monthly payments option there would be 
no interest charged. Miss B selected that option.
It wasnt until last October  that Miss B logged  into her Very account  when she was thinking  
of making another purchase. She came across her statements and was surprised to see she 
had been charged interest. She says she thought  shed chosen the buy now,  pay later 
option so shouldnt have incurred any interest until after the deferred period ended.
She queried  this with Shop Direct,  and they said theyd look into things for her. But they 
didnt call back as promised. So Miss B escalated her concerns and they were treated as a 
complaint. 
Shop Direct investigated and confirmed Miss Bs payment method did attract interest 
charges and that the buy now pay later option   which  allows repayments to be deferred for 
6 or 12 months  and attracts no interest  if the balance  is repaid in full within the deferred 
period  wasnt available to her at the time.  They did however  acknowledge  that Miss B was 
wrongly advised about interest being due and ought  to have been  called back  when 
querying this in October  so they offered £30 compensation.
Unhappy with their response, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. While she agreed Shop Direct had made a 
mistake when advising Miss B on the phone, she didnt  agree that meant Miss B ought to not 
pay the interest as she still thought shed have  gone  ahead with the purchase anyway. 
Shop Direct later made an offer to refund  the interest charges between  January and October  
 this amounted  to just under £240.  
Miss B remained unhappy. She said she was told that minimum payments would mean she 
paid no interest. And that the offer of refunding  some interest, but not all of it doesnt put her 
back in the position she should  have been in either   she says she could have  bought the 
more expensive item from another retailer. 
Ref: DRN76090682Our investigator didnt  agree and pointed  out that the other retailer  Miss B had mentioned 
would have required her to be in employment  in order  to be eligible  for interest-free credit  
and Miss B isnt employed. But Miss B says she was employed  at the time, and so to be put 
back in the position she ought  to have been in, she shouldnt have paid any interest.  She 
suggested how things  could now be settled which included her paying  nothing more, having  
interest refunded  or returning the item for a full refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss B but I think Shop Directs  offer is reasonable. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Shop Direct  wrongly told Miss B she could make minimum monthly 
repayments and not incur  any interest  charges. But what is important  to note is that Miss B 
completed this purchase online before she spoke to Shop Direct  so she ought reasonably 
to have understood the various  repayment options at that point. Ive seen  the screens that 
she would  have gone through to make  her purchase,  and details around payment  options 
were explained  then. And while  the Take 3 option mentioned it was interest-free, there was 
no such assertion made in relation  to the monthly repayment arrangement.  
It looks like Miss B chose the Take  3 option when she placed the order online. But shes  
told us she was a student and had limited income which seems likely to have  been  the 
reason she chose the minimum monthly repayment option when she spoke with Shop Direct. 
This reduced  the amount  she would have to repay each month and, as she thought then,  still 
meant she wouldnt be charged interest.   
The other options available to Miss B at the time were to pay for the items immediately and 
in full or to pay them off within  three  months  via the Take 3 option.  She wasnt  eligible for 
the option to buy now pay later which  benefitted  from being interest-free if the balance was 
cleared within  the deferred period so, again,  gave  her longer to find the money to repay the 
debt. Although Miss B chose the Take 3 option when she completed  the online purchase  
process, in reality, I dont  think it was actually affordable given the financial situation  she has 
explained she was in and that shed have had to make three payments of over £350  in the 
three months following the purchase.
Miss B makes  the point that shed have bought the more expensive  time elsewhere and on 
an interest-free basis had she have known interest would be charged  in relation to this 
purchase. But as our investigator says, we cant now know whether shed have been eligible 
for those  offers with other companies. And importantly, Miss B completed  the purchase  
online before  calling Shop Direct,  so if she wanted  to consider the terms and whether  
another retailer wouldve been  more  suitable, its reasonable to think  she would have done 
so before clicking to complete the purchase  online.  
From all that I have seen, Miss B completed  a purchase online and ought then to have 
considered the payment terms. She was later told that things were better than they first 
seemed, but when  that later transpired not to be the case, her position  simply reverted to 
that of when she first made the purchase. Shop  Direct  have made an offer to refund  some 
interest and compensate her for a lack of a call back  I think  both are fair sums to resolve  
things. 
Ref: DRN76090683I realise Miss B will probably  feel let down by my decision, as its not the outcome she 
wanted. If she is experiencing  financial  problems  she may like to get some help from a free 
money advice service  we can provide  more  information about that if she would like it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  should  settle  this complaint 
as they have proposed to do, by refunding Miss Bs interest charges incurred between  
January and October 2018 and paying £30 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609068