K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card.
background
The policy was added  to Mrs Ps credit card account when she applied  for the card online via 
the EGG  website in January 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs Ps main concern is that she had other means 
she couldve  relied on if she couldnt  work.  Mrs P also told us that it wasnt  made clear to her 
that the policy was optional.  And she said that if the policys costs  and benefits had been 
properly explained,  she wouldve declined  it.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mrs P completed, she had to select the Yes option  to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance,  I find that Mrs P 
knew she had a choice  about protecting her card repayments and she wanted to do so at the 
time. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible some of the information  Egg gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, next to where Mrs P was asked to decide  about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described,  the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Mrs P couldve  have benefitted from having the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs P had 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months on half 
pay through work. The policy  wouldve  paid out, in full, for up to 12 months on top of her sick 
pay. Bearing in mind  that Mrs P mightve also had some additional costs  if she was too 
unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially when she went down to half pay only.  And the policy  wouldve also 
protected Mrs Ps credit card repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of 
work.
Mrs P hasnt given us details of any other  means she couldve depended on if she wasnt  
able to work. So I can see why she mightve  wanted to have PPI. Having PPI wouldve 
meant Mrs P could be sure shed be able to more than cover her Egg card monthly 
repayments whatever  her circumstances.
Ref: DRN75263012Mrs P was eligible for the policy.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Mrs Ps case.  So, I dont think having  more information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided  
Mrs P with the protection  broadly described  on the website which  shed indicated  she was 
willing to pay for. 
I think EGG  couldve  explained the policy  cost better  than it did. But, looked at overall, given 
the benefits PPI offered Mrs P, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have  taken out the policy.  
This means  that, even though EGG  mightnt have done everything it shouldve  done, I dont 
find that Mrs P lost out because of anything EGG did wrong. So it doesnt  need to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7526301