K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Europaische  Reiseversicherung AG (ERAG) declined  her claim 
against her travel insurance policy. 
background 
Ms E travelled abroad in 2018 to visit an aging family member.  Due to circumstances at 
home she needed to return earlier than planned. Her daughter unexpectedly became 
pregnant and needed Ms Es help in caring for her other young  children. Ms E tried to claim 
on her travel  insurance policy for the expenses incurred in curtailing  her trip and booking an 
earlier flight home. 
ERAG declined the claim. It says the curtailment  section  of the policy  only provided cover for 
certain specified reasons, none  of which applied to Ms Es situation. 
Ms E was unhappy  with this so she brought  the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not think ERAG unfairly declined  the claim.  Ms E disagreed  with this so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Not all situations will be covered by a travel  insurance policy.  Only specific, defined insured 
events set out in the policy will be covered. So Ive looked closely  at the terms of Ms Es 
policy. There's a specific  section which lists scenarios in which Ms E would  be covered for 
expenses incurred by her having  to return home  urgently (curtailment) . The first scenario, 
and one which Ms E believed applied to her, is detailed as:
"All reasonable additional travel expenses Incurred by You In returning to Your home 
address In the United Kingdom  where such return Is urgently necessitated by:
The death, serious Illness or severe bodily Injury  of your relative or close  business  
associate, where such relative or close business associate Is resident  In the United  
Kingdom."
Illness has been defined  in the policy as: "A sudden and unexpected deterioration in health  
not caused by bodily Injury."
Ms E curtailed her trip abroad because  her daughter unexpectedly became pregnant and 
needed help looking  after her children. She has mentioned that her daughter  was due to 
have an operation because of a medical condition but that this was postponed  upon realising 
she was pregnant. This condition made  it more  difficult for her to care for her children whilst 
pregnant.
Mrs E says her daughters condition should be classified as a sudden and unexpected 
deterioration in health.  Ive thought carefully about this. However  Ms Es daughter had been 
living with the condition that the postponed operation intended to treat for some time.  While 
there was the added complication that she could not receive treatment for it because of her 
Ref: DRN75637852pregnancy, I dont think it could be fairly described as a sudden or unexpected deterioration 
in her health. I also dont  believe  that Ms Es daughters pregnancy  can be classified as an 
illness. So while  I sympathise with the situation, I dont agree with Ms E that her claim is 
covered by the policy.
The policy is clear in what it covers  and it has given a specific definition of what it considers 
to be serious illness. Im satisfied that the reason for Ms Es curtailment of her trip wasnt 
an insured event which is covered by her policy. This means I dont think ERAG has been  
unfair or unreasonable when it turned down the claim.
My final decision  
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  by 20 October 2019. 
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7563785