K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains, in summary, that Santander  UK PLC did not do enough to help him recover 
all the money  he had paid to a binary  options trading platform  using his Santander VISA  
debit card. 
Background
After seeing an advertisement for a company,  T Ltd, offering binary options trading, Mr W 
made payments totalling £9,165.00 to it. Mr Ws account was remotely  managed by an 
account manager for T. He initially saw success,  which prompted him to deposit more funds. 
But he became concerned when  his account manager pressured him to deposit  more  funds 
onto the trading platform. When  he declined, his investment dramatically reduced to zero. He 
then discovered that T was not authorised by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). That 
led him to approach Santander to ask the bank to retrieve  his money. 
Ive listed the transactions in dispute  below:
Date Amount Company Payment method  
7 April 2018 £250.00 T Ltd Visa debit
11 April 2018 £1,500.00 T Ltd Visa debit
13 April 2018 £5,915.00 T Ltd Visa debit
15 May 2018 £1,500.00 T Ltd Visa debit 
Santander declined to process chargeback claims for Mr W because he could not provide it 
with a screenshot  of his trading platform showing a balance  which was one piece of the 
evidence required by the VISA chargeback scheme rules. Mr W referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator concluded, first of all, that T had operated a scam. He found that 
consumers that fall victim to the type of scam Mr W had fallen victim to wouldnt usually 
know there is a problem  until; the company places obstacles  in the way of withdrawal 
requests or, reduces available balances to zero, or blocks access to their trading platforms.  
He further found that Santander should  have submitted the chargeback  claim to VISA  
differently, using  a more appropriate reason  code. As a result, he recommended that the 
bank should  refund to Mr W the transactions in dispute, pay interest on those funds and 
£200 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr W. 
Although Mr W accepted our investigators  suggested settlement, Santander  didnt and 
provided additional information around its failed attempts to assist consumers using various 
reason codes. It was satisfied the reason code it wanted to use was most appropriate but 
provided evidence that VISAs final stage of arbitration would fail without  all of the required 
evidence. 
I wrote to Santander with my provisional  decision on how Mr Ws complaint could be 
resolved on 29 October 2020 and in summary  said:
I agreed the misrepresentation reason code suggested by Santander  was the most 
appropriate code to use under the circumstances and that it required some specific  
evidence of Mr W. This evidence  would  have been necessary had the matter needed 
to have been escalated  to VISAs arbitration stage   which  is the final stage in its 
process. But a chargeback could have been  attempted in absence of it.
Ref: DRN72487152Given the amounts  involved and the nature of Mr Ws claim  that hed been  
scammed by T  I think it ought to have better assisted  him. 
I reviewed Mr Ws normal account spend and found that the payments to T were 
unusual for him. He received regular state  benefit payment  entitlements  (including a 
disability benefit), made  payments  to regular  payees, made household bill payments 
and grocery purchases. In my view, by the third transaction  to T, it ought to have 
triggered Santanders fraud  detection systems to prompt  it to have a conversation  
with Mr W in accordance  with the BSI code  which Santander was involved in the 
development of. 
Binary options fraud was a known type of investment fraud at the time Mr W 
instructed his payments to T. The FCA and its predecessor published a series of 
papers around investment fraud  setting out good and poor practices for firms like 
Santander. I was satisfied the intricacies  of this type of fraud was better known to 
banks than the average consumer.  
In addition to the good industry  practice  at the time of Mr Ws payments, I considered  
firms like Santander  ought to have  taken proactive steps to identify vulnerable 
consumers at risk of financial exploitation.  
Taking all the good  practice  into account, I felt a meaningful conversation between  
Santander and Mr W would not only have prevented further payments, but the bank 
could have recovered the remaining loss successfully through the chargeback 
scheme. This was because at the point of transaction three, Mr W hadnt lost any 
funds or realised hed been scammed. 
The evidence requirements of a successful chargeback  claim are better known to 
clients of the card schemes  this is card issuers like Santander  and merchant 
acquirers. I considered the reasons behind VISAs rule expansion of October 2017. 
Namely that law enforcement agencies put pressure  on VISA  to expand its rules to 
provide better protection to cardholders that had been victims of binary options  
merchants. VISA recognised binary  options merchants, commonly  unregulated (like 
T) were  using deceptive tactics for instance  operating unregulated trading platforms  
prone to manipulation by controlling  entities. I was satisfied if Santander could have 
uncovered the scam sooner,  when Mr W was able to gather the required evidence, a 
chargeback claim would  have  succeeded.  But in any event, Santander should have  
at least attempted  to process chargeback claims.
I explained I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Santander to return  the 
payments in dispute. Plus, pay 8% interest on the disputed amount from the point  Mr 
W requested a chargeback claim until the date of settlement.   
Santander did not respond. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional findings  
are unchanged. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence  of a response from Santander to my provisional 
decision, it is fair and reasonable  to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have. 
As Santander had no comments to make, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint  for 
the reasons set out above and in more detail  in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN72487153Although most of Mr Ws distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of T, I think Santander could have done  more to prevent some of this fraud taking place and 
to better assist him with recovering the losses he suffered. 
I therefore consider  the £200  compensation for distress and inconvenience suggested by our 
investigator to be appropriate. 
My Final  Decision 
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Santander UK PLC to pay Mr W:
The money he lost (totalling £9,165.00) within 28 days  of receiving notification  of his 
acceptance of my final decision;  plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible) at the simple  rate of 8% per year on the 
above point from the date Mr W reported  the fraud  to the bank; plus
£200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused also within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at 8% simple  per year (less  any tax) until payment is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7248715