K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Unum  Ltd terminated  his income protection claim and asked for an 
overpayment to be repaid.
background
Mr P made a claim in January 2017  on his income protection policy  as he was unable  to 
work due to his medical condition. Unum accepted his claim on the basis of lack of bladder 
control and urgency to urinate and paid benefit until May 2017 when it felt he could return  to 
work. Mr P complained to this service  and in March 2018 an ombudsman  here required the 
claim to be reinstated  and paid until Mr P returned  to work, taking into account his phased  
return. 
Mr P returned to work  on a part time basis.  He was working four days a week rather  than 
five. Unum paid proportionate benefit in accordance with the policy terms. 
However in January 2019 Unum wrote  to Mr P and advised him that it was terminating his 
claim. Mr P appealed   he felt that increasing  his working hours would lead to increased  
stress and fatigue.  Unum  maintained its view so Mr P complained  here. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint was upheld.  Mr P remained unhappy  
so the matter has been passed to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive only included a brief summary but Ive considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt I should  make  it clear that as my colleague has issued a final 
decision on the earlier complaint which was accepted,  I have no power to revisit that. So my 
consideration commences from the termination of Mr Ps claim in December 2018.  
In order to terminate  Mr Ps claim it was for Unum to show  that he no longer  met the 
definition of incapacity - that he couldnt  perform  the material and substantial duties of his 
occupation because  of illness. 
Unum established  that Mr P felt that the main barriers to returning to full time hours  were  the 
possibility of incontinence and fatigue.  The medical evidence though didnt demonstrate  that 
these issues would  prevent Mr P from returning  to work on a full-time basis.  With regards  to 
his incontinence his pelvic floor dysfunction specialist discharged him from care in May 2018 
on the basis that he was able to self-manage. His medical records didnt show  any ongoing 
appointments or treatment regarding fatigue.  Mr Ps own evidence was that he was able to 
manage working a four-day week  this kept his fatigue levels  under control and there were 
no reports of continuing incontinence. In the light of the evidence I find that Unums decision 
to terminate benefit was reasonable. There was nothing to suggest that Mr Ps function  
continued to be impaired by either of the medical  issues that had caused concern and 
previously been  the reason that the claim was admitted. 
Likewise it is clear  that Mr P suffers from a skin condition which flares up when he is under 
stress. There  are several reports on file from his Consultant Dermatologist. Having been 
Ref: DRN78356682sent the latest report dated July 2020  Unum did not feel that it or the earlier reports detailed  
any restrictions or limitations to Mr P working. With regard to the latest report it commented 
that this post-dated its decision  to terminate Mr Ps benefit in January 2019  and in any event  
did not alter its understanding of Mr Ps condition for the period which  it had considered. In 
the circumstances I dont find that this is unfair   the reports  dont say that his dermatological 
condition would prevent Mr P from carrying out his role. It follows that I cant say it was unfair  
of Unum to maintain  its termination of Mr Ps benefit in the light of this evidence.
 
I understand that Mr P feels that returning to a five day week will cause stress and fatigue. I 
note that stress exacerbates his dermatological  condition. He has explained that he plans his 
four-day week in order to avoid peak time travel and therefore reduces the chance of being 
stuck in heavy  traffic. He feels  that he manages his unique role by arranging his working 
week the way that he does.  His concerns are entirely reasonable. However having 
considered all the medical evidence I dont find that it was unreasonable  for Unum to 
terminate his benefit when it did. This is because the evidence  doesnt demonstrate that 
Mr P is prevented from carrying out his role on a full-time basis,  rather  than four days a 
week.
Mr P has also complained that Unum is requesting an overpayment is repaid. I note that 
Mr P had to engage with Unum and point out that the original  overpayment  it was requesting 
was incorrect and that the correct amount was £949.04. But as it is not in dispute that this 
amount has been  overpaid, I cant say its unreasonable for Unum to request repayment.  
Although I make no direction in this regard it is a large sum to repay  and it would be 
reasonable for Unum to agree a payment plan with Mr P.
I recognise that my decision will be disappointing  for Mr P and Im sorry that it doesnt bring 
more welcome news.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7835668