K821x#15complaint
Mrs I complains that since Cofunds Limited  transferred her account to a new platform  in May 
2018 - under  the name  Aegon - she hasnt been  able to access it online.  Prior to this she 
and her husband used their joint email address to access both of their individual accounts 
but are now unable to do so. Her husband had to make numerous, lengthy calls to try and 
resolve this issue and she cant understand why Cofunds now insists they have two separate 
email addresses.
background
Cofunds did not uphold her complaint, saying  it had decided  to make this change to 
introduce greater security measures on its online platform. It accepted  that its recent website 
update had thrown up some technical  challenges which resulted in customers  waiting an 
unusually long time for queries to be dealt with. It acknowledged that Mrs I and her husband 
had rung on a number of occasions and said it would pay Mrs I £50 in lieu of the cost of the 
calls and the trouble  this had caused  her.
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld in part.
He accepted that Cofunds had a right to change its online  access  requirements but he 
wasnt convinced it had told Mrs I in advance  about this change, something which he felt had  
caused her significant  trouble and upset.
He felt Cofunds should pay an additional sum of £100 i.e. £150  overall.
Cofunds did not agree, reiterating its original  position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and mainly for the same  reasons.  Cofunds has not 
disputed the adjudicators view that it did not inform Mrs I in advance  about this change. 
Assuming this is correct,  I think it ought  to have done  and for obvious  reasons.
Even if it did, I believe it had a responsibility  when bringing about a significant  change in 
clients online access to their accounts to ensure it had systems  and staffing in place to 
assist any clients who suddenly found  they were  locked  out of their accounts - even if this 
was not its fault.  From  what I have read, Cofunds admits it did not have  sufficient support in 
place to provide  prompt and helpful advice to clients like Mrs I who could no longer  access  
their accounts.
I therefore agree that it should  pay Mr I an additional £100.
Finally, I note that the adjudicator advised  Mrs I that she would need  to bring a fresh 
complaint about  her and or her husbands continuing inability to access accounts  as Cofunds 
has not considered  this issue to date. Given the time it has taken for Cofunds to respond so 
far, I concur with this approach.
Ref: DRN76652302my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Cofunds  Limited  to pay Mrs I an additional £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7665230