K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that, after she sold her property and redeemed  the mortgage,  the 
mortgage lender,  Wave  Lending Limited, sent correspondence to that property address. The 
complaint has been conducted on her behalf by her husband, Mr B.
background
Mrs B had a mortgage with Wave Lending which reached the end of its term in September  
2016 and was overdue to be repaid. On 12 September 2018 the property was sold and 
Mr and Mrs B moved out. They put in place Royal Mail redirection so that any post sent to 
their old address would  be forwarded  on to their new home. The mortgage account was 
finally closed on 19 October 2018.  
Wave sent correspondence about  the mortgage  redemption to the old address and it was 
forwarded on to Mrs B. On 29 October  2018 Mr B telephoned Wave to complain  about  this. 
Wave explained  that it could not change the address  on the (redeemed) account without 
proof of residence, such as utility bills or bank statements. 
Mr B was angry  about this. He said it wasnt possible to provide utility  bills immediately on 
moving house. Mr B said Wave had committed a serious breach of Mrs Bs personal  data by 
sending correspondence  to her previous address. Mr B escalated  the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. After initially thinking the complaint should 
be upheld with a small award of compensation for trouble and upset, on receiving further 
evidence and arguments, the investigator  didnt think Wave had done anything  wrong. He 
was satisfied that, although Wave  had sent correspondence to Mrs Bs previous address, 
Mr B had confirmed to Wave that Royal Mail redirection  was in place. In the circumstances, 
the investigator was satisfied there  had been no loss or detriment to Mrs B.
Mr B disagreed with this. In summary,  he said that Wave acted inappropriately when it sent 
correspondence to an address before it was aware  of any redirection arrangements. Just 
because no damage  was done does  not mean Wave can be exonerated.  Mr B says that he 
cant be certain that Royal Mail has redirected  all correspondence from Wave.
Because the complaint  is still unresolved, it now falls to me to issue  a final decision on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
I will explain  at the outset  that where a complaint is solely about whether  or not a financial 
business has committed a breach  of the General Data  Protection  Regulation  (as is the case  
here), it is usually more  appropriate to refer it to the Information Commissioner,  rather  than 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Thats because the Information Commissioners  Office is 
the organisation responsible for dealing with data protection breaches. 
I take on board the points Mr B has made   that when moving into a new property Mrs B 
would not have any immediate proof of her new address by way of utility bills, bank  
Ref: DRN77252822statements, etc. So I agree that no formal  change of address could have been  carried out on 
the account on the day it was sold
But I also note that Mrs B did in fact receive  the correspondence sent by Wave because 
shed arranged to have her post redirected by Royal Mail. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
there has been no financial loss, nor any detriment caused, to Mrs B as a result  of the 
correspondence having been sent to the previous  address. 
Mr B says that he doesnt know if Royal Mail has forwarded on all the correspondence sent 
by Wave to the previous address. The account notes dont suggest there has been anything  
other than the correspondence which Mr B has mentioned  and that was redirected  and 
received by Mrs B. But if Mr B is concerned that Royal  Mail hasnt forwarded  everything to 
Mrs B, thats something hell need  to take up with Royal Mail.  Im afraid we cant  help him 
with that.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping  for. I have listened to Mr Bs telephone 
call with Wave and from this I know Mr B feels very strongly about this matter.  But for the 
reasons given above, Im not upholding  this complaint. If Mrs B decides not to accept this 
final decision, it will not be legally  binding on her and she will be free to pursue her concerns 
over breach  of her personal  data with the Information Commissioners Office, or in court, 
should she wish to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  that I will not 
be entering into any further discussion about the merits  of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725282