K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds  handling  of a subsidence claim made 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
background
Mr H made  a claim some years ago for subsidence of his conservatory. This was accepted  
and Fairmead arranged repairs. 
Over the following few years, Mr H continued  to experience problems with his conservatory 
letting in rainwater.  Further  repairs were carried out, but these  didnt resolve the problem.
Initially, Fairmeads loss adjuster thought  the problems were being  caused by the 
construction of the replacement conservatory. However, a conservatory  specialist  identified  
in 2019 that there was subsidence.
Mr H complained to Fairmead  about  the service  hed received, particularly that he hadnt 
been kept updated about his claim. Fairmead  agreed to provide Mr H with weekly updates  
about the progress of his claim,  and paid him £100 compensation for not keeping him 
informed. It later also changed to a different  loss adjuster. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020.  My provisional findings were:
The subsidence  was first identified  in 2010.  It was initially thought the movement was 
caused by a neighbours tree. Though as I understand  it, that was later thought  not to be the 
problem. 
Fairmeads contractor removed the conservatory  and built a new one, however no work was 
carried out to the foundations. 
Unfortunately, soon after the conservatory was built, rainwater was able to enter. I 
understand Fairmeads contractor had gone  out of business by this point, therefore a 
different contractor carried out repairs. However,  there was further  water  ingress.  Further 
repairs were then done, which again didnt  resolve  the problem. I understand several repairs 
have taken place  over the years,  yet the conservatory has continued to let in water.  
Fairmeads loss adjuster  thought the problems were down to poor workmanship. Though as 
the workmanship had been carried out by Fairmeads contractor, that meant Fairmead  was 
responsible for putting the matter  right.
By 2018, Mr H was getting  understandably frustrated. I see that throughout 2018  Fairmead 
was corresponding  with its loss adjuster, but little progress was being made.  It seems  there  
was some confusion between the two parties  over what was happening with the claim. In 
August 2018,  the loss adjuster advised Fairmead  the conservatory  design  was flawed, and 
not capable of dealing with rainwater  without allowing it to enter.  
In April 2019, the problems were still ongoing.  The loss adjuster  thought  there was no point 
doing further investigations, as there  was no sign of movement.  It thought the conservatory 
would need to be completely replaced.  At this point, Fairmead  paid Mr H £100 compensation 
for not keeping him updated.  It also arranged  for one point of contact  to call Mr H each  week 
to keep him updated. 
Ref: DRN72749822The following  month, Fairmead arranged for a conservatory specialist to carry  out an 
inspection. The specialist  said the conservatory  had dropped due to ground movement. 
In June 2019, the loss adjuster said it had looked  at the conservatory  two or three times, and 
hadnt noticed any issues with movement. It said there may have been some  movement over 
the summer  of 2018. But it still thought there  were fundamental  issues with the design  of the 
conservatory and its roof drainage. 
In August  2019,  the loss adjuster carried out a further inspection.  It said there was evidence  
of crack damage at this time, which would suggest  there had been further movement of the 
foundations. It recommended site monitoring.  
In September  2019, Fairmead decided  to change loss adjuster. I understand the new loss 
adjuster suspected vegetation in both Mr Hs property and his neighbours property  may be 
responsible for the movement. It arranged for drainage investigations  to take place. I dont 
know what has happened since.  
My conclusions
Fairmead no longer  has information relating to the subsidence claim that was initially made  
in 2010. I therefore dont  know  if Fairmead had identified what was causing the subsidence, 
or if it was reasonable for Fairmead to conclude  at the time that the movement had stopped,  
and therefore  decide not to carry out any work to the conservatory foundations. 
Ive therefore  concentrated on Fairmeads handling  of the matter since the conservatory  was 
rebuilt. 
Fairmeads loss adjuster  initially  thought  the water ingress was due to poor workmanship,  
but then said there  were  design problems with the conservatory itself. I havent seen any 
other evidence which  confirms the loss adjusters view,  but we do know that in early 2019, 
further movement  was identified. The loss adjuster accepted this when it carried out an 
inspection in August  2019. 
Given the ongoing problems with the conservatory  over many years since  it was rebuilt, it 
may well be the case that the subsidence  was either  causing,  or contributing  to the 
problems. However, we dont know for sure because movement wasnt  identified until 2019. 
Nevertheless, as Fairmead  knew that the repairs being carried  out to the conservatory  
werent resolving the issues (and it was responsible for the rebuilding of the conservatory in 
the first place), I think it should have arranged for further investigations to take place by a 
specialist far sooner.  Although subsidence  wasnt previously thought to be an issue, I think  it 
was apparent there was a problem with the conservatory that couldnt  be repaired and a 
specialist needed  to look at it. Unfortunately, Fairmead didnt arrange this until May 2019,  
despite the number of years over which Mr H had experienced problems. 
I think Mr H was caused a great  deal of unnecessary inconvenience as a result of 
Fairmeads handling of the matter. 
I appreciate that in April 2019, Fairmead only looked  into Mr Hs concerns about its failure to 
keep him updated  about the claim. However, I have an inquisitorial remit, which means I can 
look at the full circumstances of the case.  I therefore intend to require  Fairmead to pay Mr H 
Ref: DRN72749823£750 total compensation to reflect the inconvenience he was caused by its failure to arrange 
for a specialist inspection  to take place much  sooner. 
I think it was appropriate  for Fairmead  to arrange for Mr H to have one point of contact, and 
to be regularly updated about his claim.  Unfortunately, Fairmead didnt keep  to this 
arrangement. Ive taken  this into account in my compensation award too. 
The claim is still ongoing as the new loss adjuster appointed by Fairmead are still looking 
into matters. I think it was an appropriate course  of action for Fairmead to appoint  a new loss 
adjuster. However,  given  the length  of time this has been ongoing, I would expect Fairmead 
to ensure this claim takes priority and is resolved as soon as possible.  I intend to require 
Fairmead to provide Mr H with the contact details  of a staff member (not the same  one as it 
gave him previously) who will liaise with the loss adjuster  and regularly contact Mr H to 
update him about the claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mr H said he will accept  my provisional  findings,  though he doesnt think  the compensation 
amount is high enough. 
Fairmead responded to provide an update  on the claim. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead has provided this service  with an update on the claim from the new loss adjuster - 
but this should be provided directly to Mr H. As Ive said in my provisional decision, 
Fairmead should ensure the claim takes  priority and should regularly update  Mr H about the 
claim. 
As neither party has provided me with any new evidence,  Im satisfied my provisional 
findings should remain, and for the same  reasons.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr H £750 compensation  (it can deduct  any amount it has already paid in this respect). It 
should also arrange for one point of contact to provide Mr H with regular updates  going  
forwards. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274982