K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that she didnt receive any money for the mis-sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France  IARD has taken responsibility for this sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer 
to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This policy gave Mrs L price and purchase protection,  and insurance  against accidents, 
illnesses and unemployment. 
Mrs L complained about the sale of PPI on her store card. AXA agreed  it had been  mis-sold. 
AXAs records showed Mrs L had paid £25.69  for the PPI in total, and had received £164.89 
in successful claims on the policy, using its price  protection element. Because  Mrs L had 
received more from the PPI than shed spent  on it, AXA said there  was nothing to refund.
Mrs L was not happy  with this. She said AXA had used assumptions in their calculation, and 
that it was AXAs fault  not hers  that shed been mis-sold the policy and allowed to claim 
on it. She felt the price  protection was a separate policy to the other cover.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently, and found that what  AXA had done was 
fair. Mrs L disagreed, so the complaints  been passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, I think  AXA have dealt  with Mrs Ls PPI compensation fairly.
Im satisfied from AXAs records that Mrs L paid £25.69 for the PPI in total,  and received 
£164.89 from it in successful claims.
To clarify, the price protection element was not a separate insurance. It was all part of one 
PPI policy, under the one certificate  of insurance. Without this PPI policy, Mrs L would not 
have been able to make the claims totalling  £164.89.
When a business  has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd  be in now if theyd never had the policy   as far as its possible to do that.
If Mrs L had never been sold this policy, she wouldnt  have paid £25.69  for it. But equally, if 
the PPI policy  had never been sold, then Mrs L would not have been  able to make the price 
protection claims and would not have received £164.89 of benefit.
As Mrs L received more  from the PPI than she paid for it, I cant fairly tell AXA to pay her 
anything further.
I appreciate that this situation is not Mrs Ls fault,  and that she acted  in good faith at the 
time. But the fact remains that she received £139.20  more  from the PPI than she spent on it, 
and so there is nothing  to refund to her.
Ref: DRN71633472my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think AXA France IARD have already dealt with Mrs Ls PPI 
compensation fairly, so I dont require them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7163347