K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained about:
information Mortgages Plc gave about her about  being able to sell her home,
Mortgages Plc selling  the home  for less than its market  value  after repossession,  and
Mortgages Plc continuing to charge her £55 a month.
background
Ms W and her ex-husband,  who now lives overseas, jointly  hold a mortgage with Mortgages  
Plc. The mortgage fell into arrears  and the home was repossessed. Mortgages Plc marketed 
the home for sale.  At the time Ms W brought her complaint to us Mortgages  Plc had 
accepted an offer of £80,750  which was roughly £20,000 less than the outstanding amount 
on the mortgage.
Ms W has complained about how Mortgages  Plc has handled the matter. In particular,  she 
said she wanted to sell the home  at a higher price but for five years Mortgages Plc blocked  
her from doing that without Mr Ws authority. She also mentioned  that Mortgages Plc is now 
selling the home for less than its market  value.
After Ms W brought her complaint to us we received  confirmation that the £80,750  offer had 
fallen through  as the prospective  buyer  couldnt  get a mortgage. There  was another offer 
now on the table  for £72,000.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She felt prior to the 
repossession there was nothing to show that Mortgages Plc had prevented Ms W from 
selling the home as there was no evidence  it was on the market  at that time. She also noted 
the court had granted Ms W three  months  to sell the home  and leave, but Mortgages Plc 
waited a further three months before taking possession. She felt Mortgages Plc acted fairly 
in trying to get the highest price  possible as the offer it initially  accepted was in line with 
market valuations it had received. She also thought Mortgages Plc was entitled  to continue 
sending Ms W letters  regarding the arrears, and to charge £55 a month following the 
repossession.
Ms W disagreed with our investigators conclusion so the matter  has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
sale of the property
The court granted Mortgages plc the right to take possession of the home, which  in turn 
allowed it to sell the home in order to recoup some  of the amount owing on the mortgage. 
Ive noted Ms Ws comments about the home  being  sold for significantly less than its market 
value. However, Ive seen  a report Mortgages Plc received which outlines the market 
valuations and they range  from £72,500 to £85,000. With that in mind, I conclude  that 
Mortgages plc acted fairly in accepting the offers  it did.
Ref: DRN77457082Mortgages plc blocking Ms W from selling the property
I dont know the legalities  of whether or not Ms W could have sold the property and/or 
redeemed the mortgage without Mr Ws authorisation.  Its also not clear to me when 
Mortgages plc told Ms W that she would  need Mr Ws authorisation. Nevertheless, even if I 
found that Mortgages plc gave Ms W incorrect information in this respect Id still need to be 
satisfied that it actually prevented Ms W from selling the property. And I have my doubts  in 
that respect.
There are references in Mortgages plcs file to Ms W trying to sell the property. For example:
in April 2017 its noted that the property had been on the market for three months, with 
an initial asking price  of £115,000 (later  reducing  to £109,000 and £97,500).  The note 
says there had been two viewings in that time.
in October 2018 theres reference  to Ms W telling Mortgages Plc that the property had 
been for sale for five years (with the asking  price reducing from £127,000 to £100,000 in 
that time).
But I havent seen  anything which shows that an offer had ever been accepted or that a sale 
had been agreed. Given the reduction in the asking prices, it seems  Ms W was having 
difficulty selling the property. So Im not persuaded that Ms W could have/would have sold 
the property irrespective of any information  she might  have  received from Mortgages  Plc.
ongoing charges
There are various fees detailed in a Tariff of Mortgage Charges document (which  sits 
alongside the mortgage) that Mortgages  plc is entitled to charge in certain circumstances. 
One of them  is a monthly possessions monitoring charge of £55, which  is applied when a 
property has been repossessed to cover additional account management activity.
Given the situation with Ms Ws repossessed property and mortgage, I consider it fair for that 
charge to have  been applied whilst Mortgages  plc has tried to sell the property.
summary
I dont doubt that its been  distressing and worrying for Ms W with the repossession  of her 
home and with the prospect of there  being an amount outstanding on the mortgage once the 
home is sold. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think  Mortgages plc has treated 
her unfairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7745708