K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about advice given  by HDIFA (then  part of Berkshire  Financial Advisers  
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits  in a former employers pension  scheme,  a 
Section 32 policy  and a personal pension to a self invested personal  pension (SIPP) to 
invest in an unregulated investment. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice 
HDIFA gave. 
background
Ive considered Mrs As complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 29 July 2019. 
Ive summarised the findings I reached  below.  But Ill first recap  the facts and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Mrs As pension  arrangements included deferred  benefits in a former employers final salary 
scheme. She was referred to Firm A (an appointed representative of a regulated firm) by an 
unregulated introducer. But Firm As adviser  didnt  have the necessary permissions to advise 
on final salary pension  transfers so Mrs A was referred to HDIFA. 
In March 2012, following advice from HDIFA, Mrs A transferred her Section 32 policy  and 
her personal  pension plan to a SIPP (in total £15,883.89). And in April 2012 she transferred 
the value of her deferred benefits in her former employers  scheme  (£86,197.84)  to the 
SIPP. Later that month £94,997.50 was invested in carbon credits. 
In 2016 Mrs A, through  her representative, complained to Meyado. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs A asked  us to look into it. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said HDIFA had known that Mrs A intended  to 
invest in an unregulated investment (White  Sands, a resort  development in Brazil) and 
HDIFA had recommended a SIPP to facilitate  that investment.  HDIFA should  have 
considered the suitability  of the proposed investment. The adjudicator  referred to the 
regulators alert issued  in January  2013. She said the investment carried  significant risks. 
She didnt  think Mrs A had the capacity to take the level of risk involved and which  meant 
she could lose a high proportion of her pension  savings.  The investment was unsuitable  and 
HDIFA should have  advised Mrs A against  investing. The adjudicator thought Mrs A would 
have followed that advice. 
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In summary it said our analysis of 
the factual matters was flawed; there  was an absence of evidence about Firm As role; it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when the money was invested on the 
advice of someone else; and HDIFA had no control over but was being  blamed for Mrs As 
investment decisions.  
We then made some  further  enquiries of Mrs A, including  about  the change  to the proposed 
investment  the paperwork referred to White  Sands but Mrs A had actually invested in 
carbon credits.  We also asked if shed received any incentive payment. 
Mrs A told us that shed  been introduced by a business contact to the idea of moving her 
pension fund and investing in a hotel/property option in Brazil. Shed been self employed 
since 2009 and she was concerned about  her pension as no further contributions  were  being 
Ref: DRN77915112made. She said she was vulnerable to the suggestion that good returns could be made on 
options outside the UK where low interest rates had impacted on pensions. And she liked 
the idea of investing in property as shed benefitted  from that in the UK. 
At some point when  the SIPP was being set up she was given an alternative  investment 
option  carbon credits. She didnt know anything about that but was told the government  
was promoting  them as the way forward and an environmentally friendly investment. And 
the potential returns  were higher than the property investment. She now thought  shed been  
foolish to believe the sales pitch. But she said it had all seemed so positive and she thought 
the involvement of a regulated adviser meant it had their seal of approval.
She confirmed that she hadnt received any incentive payment. The bank  statements  she 
produced to us didnt  show any payment. 
Our adjudicator wrote to the parties explaining  that, although the actual investment was
different  carbon credits  and not White Sands  she still thought  the complaint should  be
upheld. She also set out updated redress, following the regulators revised guidance  and to
include Mrs As Section 32 policy and personal pension  plan.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 29 July 2019 I upheld the complaint. In brief my 
findings were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mrs A without considering  the overall 
transaction. To determine if the transfer  to a SIPP  was suitable HDIFA had to 
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset 
that Mrs As intention was to invest in an unregulated investment. It appeared that 
HDIFA had been told the particular investment was White Sands but Mrs A actually 
invested in carbon  credits. To be able to advise about the transfer properly and in 
accordance with the rules, HDIFA had to understand the risks of the proposed 
investment, whether  it was White Sands or carbon credits. 
The regulators alert 18 January 2013 alert makes it clear  that HDIFA couldnt  just 
advise on the SIPP itself. The underlying investments were  part and parcel of the 
transfer. HDIFA needed to consider their suitability too. And even if the introduction 
had come from another regulated firm and HDIFA had made  it clear  that it wasnt  
giving advice on the underlying investments.
what would  suitable  advice have been?
As per COBS  (Conduct of Business Sourcebook)19.1.6G, HDIFA should have 
started by assuming  that the transfer  of Mrs As defined benefits in her former 
employers scheme  wouldnt be suitable.  Further examination would have  confirmed 
that. 
Investing virtually all of Mrs As pension funds  (her defined benefits and her two other 
pensions) in an unregulated investment   whether it was White  Sands  or carbon 
credits  wasnt suitable for Mrs A. The regulator  has said,  about  such investments, 
that they are high risk and generally  considered unsuitable for the vast majority of 
retail customers. And, even if that sort of investment might be considered  suitable   
perhaps for a high net worth  or sophisticated  investor  that would only usually be for 
a proportion of the investors  funds. 
Ref: DRN77915113The assessment  of Mrs As attitude to risk wasnt credible. It was based on answers 
she gave to a generic  questionnaire. What  shed said hadnt been  tested. Shed said 
she had a fair degree of knowledge  and understanding about investments. But she 
was apparently looking for exposure  to extreme markets which  would usually 
require a much greater level of expertise and experience. Mrs A may have had some 
capacity for loss. But I didnt think shed have  been  comfortable  with the possibility 
that she might lose her entire investment.  
Suitable advice  would have been that Mrs A didnt  transfer  and that she retained  her 
existing pension arrangements. 
what would  Mrs A have done  if HDIFA had given her suitable  advice?
I hadnt seen anything to suggest Mrs A would have gone ahead anyway (presumably
as an insistent client) if HDIFA had advised  her against transferring to SIPP and investing in 
an unregulated  investment.  Shed  been referred to HDIFA for specialist advice. I thought 
shed have placed significant  weight  on what  HDIFA said and any advice that she shouldnt  
do what she was planning.  I noted what shed said about regretting falling for the sales pitch 
in deciding to invest in carbon credits. HDIFA should have explained to Mrs A that what  she 
was planning  to do was very risky and could  mean  the loss of her entire  pension  fund. That 
would have counterbalanced  any overly positive views expressed by others and made  Mrs A 
reconsider. I didnt  think shed have gone  ahead with the transfers. 
the role of Firm A and others
I acknowledged that HDIFA wasnt the only party involved.  Firm A was a regulated 
business too. As is the SIPP provider. I recognised that what  other parties did (or 
didnt do) may have  impacted on what happened  and that it may be right to take that 
into account in deciding who was responsible for Mrs As losses. 
But Mrs As complaint had been  made  against  HDIFA. So Id concentrated on what  
HDIFA did (or didnt do) and, in particular, if the advice  it gave  Mrs A was suitable. 
Meyado might argue that Mrs As losses arose  from the investment and not the 
transfers or the SIPP itself. But if the transfers  hadnt happened and the SIPP  hadnt  
been set up, Mrs A wouldnt have been  in a position to make the investment, whether 
in White Sands or carbon credits. So HDIFAs role was instrumental.
Firm A may have  given advice about  the White Sands and carbon credits 
investments. And unregulated advice may have been given too. But, even if Firm A 
(or another party)  had advised Mrs A to invest in White Sands or carbon credits, that 
wouldnt make  any difference, given  that Mrs A wouldnt have been able to invest as 
she did if she hadnt transferred to a SIPP on advice  from HDIFA. 
Once the investment had been  made  Mrs A couldnt have disinvested.  HDIFA cant  
avoid responsibility  for its unsuitable advice by saying that another party should have 
reviewed things  later and told Mrs A she should invest differently. The investment 
had been illiquid throughout. It wasnt the case that Mrs As losses  had arisen a long 
time after her investment was made. It was impossible to know  exactly when her 
losses arose, as opposed  to when it became apparent to her that she may have lost 
her money. Depending on how the investment  was run her losses may have  arisen 
relatively early on. But what  was more important was if the losses  arose directly from 
HDIFAs unsuitable advice. I thought  they did. 
I set out what I considered would be fair compensation. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Ref: DRN77915114Mrs As representative didnt wish to comment further. Meyado did. In summary Meyado 
said:
Mrs As decision to open a SIPP and transfer the value of her deferred  pension 
benefits into it was made with assistance  of or advice from a number of entities,  not 
just HDIFA. Id continued to ignore the material involvement of others.    
Id been unwilling to look into the relationship between Mrs A and Firm A  the 
business which had advised her to invest in the illiquid investments at the heart of her 
complaint. Id deliberately excluded relevant matters. That suggests,  where  multiple 
entities are involved (regulated or otherwise), well ignore all but the one at which  the 
complaint is directed  and hold it liable, irrespective of where responsibility properly 
lies. And when a complainant may not have a true understanding of the roles  and 
responsibilities of the entities they dealt  with. Thats contrary to our obligations under 
the Financial Services  and Markets Act (FSMA) and unjust to one or more  parties.  
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Key documents and evidence from Firm A
hadnt been made available. Our enquiries are at best incomplete.  Meyados ability  to 
defend itself had been impaired. 
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation  that without Meyados 
involvement, the investments and Mrs As losses, couldnt  have  happened. That 
oversimplified the true position  and failed to take into account Mrs As decision to 
invest and that it is the investment, not the SIPP, which  is the primary cause of her 
losses. 
Wed assumed Mrs A was an inexperienced  investor. Thats contrary to how she 
described herself and her investment profile. Its irrational and ignores evidence in 
favour of assumptions. 
Meyado also highlighted sections of my provisional decision.
Id commented  on Mrs As reasons for wanting  to move her pension.  Shed made it 
clear she wanted  higher returns than a traditional pension,  she was keen  on 
property given her past experience, and carbon credits was also recommended (not 
by HDIFA)  as a possible investment. In my provisional decision the providers of such  
advice were ignored in favour of a convenience approach. 
Id referred to Mrs As entire  pension fund. But she had significant property assets 
and her pension,  while an important part of her retirement planning,  wasnt (as my 
decision implied) her sole source of intended  retirement income.
HDIFA took great care to remind Mrs A she should take advice about what 
investments she wished to make, highlighted that she was to seek that advice  from 
Firm A and made sure her initial investment was in cash  which protected her 
assets and gave her time to properly consider her investment  thinking on the basis of 
the advice HDIFA  reasonably believed she was going to seek.
The regulators alert deals with the situation where an adviser takes on a client  from 
an unregulated  introducer. Id acknowledged  that HDIFAs  situation  was different but 
I hadnt faced  up to that key difference or attempted to grapple with its significance .
The alleged failings in HDIFAs  fact finding were  based on unsubstantiated 
assumptions about Mrs As behaviour and understanding of the process more suited 
to a wholly inexperienced retail  client.  
Id acknowledged  that what other parties  did (or didnt do) may have impacted on 
what happened and that it might be right to take that into account. But Id then failed 
to do so, without  offering any justification. The failure to engage  with Firm As role 
undermines the whole  thrust of the decision. Saying Id concentrated on what HDIFA 
Ref: DRN77915115did (or didnt do) amounted to a refusal to consider all the circumstances. And saying 
that we already know what Firm A did  introduce Mrs A to HDIFA  understates and 
misrepresents Firm As role and renders the decision  irrational. 
Id said HDIFA might not be responsible if Mrs A made a particular investment 
sometime later and without HDIFAs knowledge.  Thats precisely what Mrs A did  
she chose to invest in carbon  credits instead  of White Sands.
Meyado expressed  its sympathy for Mrs A. Shed lost a significant sum as a result of 
investing on the advice of others in investments which  had failed her. But Id failed to 
properly appreciate causation and reliance  issues. Based on the information  Id 
considered  or chosen not to consider  the decision  unfairly  placed  the entire 
responsibility for Mrs As losses  on Meyado and so didnt comply  with our obligations  
under FSMA.
Meyado has more recently  made  some  further  representations about the High Courts 
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP 
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP).  The claimant had argued that the underlying investment 
had been manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP provider had a duty to advise on the 
underlying investment. The claim was dismissed.  The court  held that the SIPP  provider 
didnt owe a duty to advise on the underlying investments and there  was no obligation to 
refuse the claimants  instructions  to transfer.  Meyado  argued  the judgment  was material to 
Mrs As complaint. Meyado said it would be making  further submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out 
below, Ive paid attention  to the relevant DISP rules.  Ive also carefully  considered Meyados 
comments as summarised  above. Im sorry that it has been some time since  I issued my 
provisional decision. But I dont think anything has changed or that my views and reasons 
why I am upholding the complaint are going to come  as any surprise to Meyado. 
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
Theres no dispute that HDIFA recommended that Mrs A transfer the value of her deferred 
benefits in her former employers defined benefit  pension scheme and her two other pension  
arrangements to a SIPP. 
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mrs A without considering  the overall transaction.  
To determine if the transfer to a SIPP was suitable HDIFA had to understand what the SIPP 
was going to be invested in. HDIFA knew from the outset that Mrs A intended to invest  in an 
unregulated investment. HDIFA may have understood that the planned  investment  was 
White Sands and not carbon credits. But both investments were  unregulated and higher risk. 
The regulators alert dated 18 January  2013 makes it clear  HDIFA couldnt just advise on the 
SIPP itself.  The underlying investment was part and parcel of the transfer.  HDIFA needed to 
consider its suitability too. The alert post-dated HDIFAs advice. But the alert didnt follow  
any changes in legislation or the COBS rules. It was a reminder to advisers as to their 
existing obligations.  It was issued because it had come  to the regulators notice that some  
firms were adopting advice models  which didnt comply with the existing obligations and so 
there was a potential  for consumer detriment. 
Ref: DRN77915116HDIFA says its position  was different to that envisaged in the alert. In particular the referral 
came from another  regulated firm, not an unregulated introducer.  But HDIFA should have 
known it couldnt,  in accordance with its regulatory obligations, limit its advice even if Mrs A 
had accepted that advice  would be given on that basis. I dont think White Sands or carbon 
credits was a suitable investment for Mrs A. On that basis the transfers  were  unsuitable too. 
Further, and in any event,  I dont think Mrs A should  have  been advised to give up valuable  
guaranteed benefits in her former employers pension scheme  the transfer  value paid in 
respect of those benefits formed  the bulk of the money paid into the SIPP.  As I said in my 
provisional decision, as per COBS 19.1.6G, HDIFA should have started by assuming the 
transfer of those benefits wouldnt  be suitable. Further examination  would have confirmed 
that. 
I maintain that the assessment of Mrs As attitude to risk  that she was an adventurous, 
even speculative investor  wasnt credible. HDIFA shouldnt have simply accepted that she 
was apparently prepared to take a very high level of risk without exploring that further with 
her, including whether she had the capacity for loss that could result.
Her deferred benefits in her former employers scheme plus her other two modest pension 
arrangements represented  her entire  pension provision. She was self employed  and not 
contributing to any pension arrangement. I note what HDIFA has said about Mrs A being 
able to rely on capital  or income from her rental  property in retirement. I recognise that and I 
did acknowledge in my provisional decision that Mrs A may have had some  capacity for loss. 
But I maintain she shouldnt have been  advised to expose her pension savings to the level of 
risk that investing in a single, high risk unregulated  investment,  whether White  Sands or 
carbon credits,  represented. I note that Mrs A worked in financial services and so may have 
had some knowledge of investments. But I cant see that she had any personal experience  
or history of investing  in non mainstream, unregulated funds. 
Mrs A should have been advised against transferring to a SIPP  and investing any of her 
pension funds in White Sands or carbon credits. HDIFAs advice was unsuitable.
Meyado hasnt argued that the advice was suitable. Its position is that due to the 
involvement of others - Firm A - it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mrs As 
losses in full. It could  be argued that Mrs As losses stem mainly from the failure of the 
investment. And, given  the funds transferred were  initially held in cash, no loss had resulted 
by the time HDIFAs role ceased. But HDIFA knew that, ultimately,  the proposed investment 
was in an unregulated investment. The money  was only available  to invest  because HDIFA 
had recommended the transfers and facilitated them. Mrs A may have signed to confirm  she 
understood the investments may be high risk and that responsibility didnt rest with HDIFA. 
But that didnt  absolve HDIFA from its responsibility  to consider the investments too. Its 
unfortunate if HDIFA misunderstood  the extent of its regulatory duties. But if, as a result of 
failings on HDIFAs part, Mrs A has suffered loss, HDIFA  is responsible.  
other parties  involvement 
Were governed by the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules  set out in the regulators handbook. 
DISP 3.6.1R requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to what  is, in my opinion,  
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. DISP 3.5.2R, DISP  3.5.3R and 
DISP 3.6.3G are relevant  too. I agree the involvement of other  parties is a relevant factor.  In 
considering Mrs As complaint, Ive taken into account that HDIFA wasnt  the only party 
Ref: DRN77915117involved. Firm A was a regulated  business  too. As was the SIPP  provider. And I recognise 
what other parties did (or didnt do) may have  impacted on what happened and that it may 
be right to take that into account in deciding  who is responsible  for Mrs As losses. But a 
conclusion that, despite the involvement  of other  (regulated) entities, the complaint should  
be upheld against  the party complained about  and that party should meet  the consumers 
losses in full, wont necessarily be unfair  or unreasonable. 
It isnt the case,  as Meyado has suggested,  that who a complainant may think is responsible 
(whether on legal advice  or otherwise) is determinative. Our investigation and determination  
of a complaint  against HDIFA reflects its central  role. It isnt irrational but consistent with the 
circumstances of the case.  
Meyado may argue that Mrs As losses arise  from the investment  and not the transfers or the 
SIPP itself.  But if the transfers hadnt happened  and the SIPP hadnt been set up, Mrs A 
wouldnt have been in a position to make the carbon credits investment. On that basis 
HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
Meyado suggests  we should get further  information  from Firm A. It introduced Mrs A to 
HDIFA. As Ive acknowledged, its possible that Firm A gave advice about the White Sands 
and/or the carbon credits  investment. But, as Ive also said,  even  if Firm A did give advice, 
that wouldnt change  my view about  why HDIFA is responsible.  HDIFA thought it could limit 
its advice to the transfers and the SIPP. But, as Ive explained, its understanding was wrong. 
HDIFA needed consider  the proposed investment  too. Even if Firm A (or indeed  any other 
entity that may have been involved)  had advised Mrs A, and in the strongest possible terms, 
to invest in White Sands  and/or carbon credits, my decision would still have been the same.
Mrs As pension  provision included deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit  
scheme. Firm A wasnt competent  to advise on transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt 
have the necessary regulatory permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter to HDIFA. HDIFA 
had the requisite permissions and expertise and responsibility to advise Mrs A properly on 
the overall transaction. Its role was pivotal, since the eventual investment was wholly  
contingent on the transfer taking place. HDIFAs advice that Mrs A should transfer to a SIPP  
so that she could invest in a high risk, unregulated, illiquid investment was unsuitable. But for 
the transfer Mrs A couldnt have invested  as she did. 
HDIFA advised Mrs A to transfer. My starting  point as to causation  is that HDIFA gave 
unsuitable advice.  So it is responsible for the losses Mrs A suffered in transferring to the 
SIPP and investing  in carbon credits. That isnt wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts 
of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. HDIFA  could have prevented the 
investment. Instead  it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice  that Mrs A transfer. 
HDIFA gave the transfer advice  and it is responsible  for the losses  which have been incurred 
as a result. Mrs A was only able to invest  in carbon credits  because HDIFAs unsuitable 
advice unlocked the money from her former  employers pension  scheme  and the other two 
arrangements. The transfers themselves were unsuitable  and Meyado hasnt argued  
otherwise. 
responsibility for underlying investments
HHDIFA couldnt advise  on the transfers to a SIPP without considering the intended  
underlying investments.  So,  in my view, HDIFA is responsible  for the underlying investment. 
It isnt the case that HDIFA  had no control  over but is being  blamed for Mrs As investment 
Ref: DRN77915118decisions. The situation is that she was referred  to HDIFA for specialist advice about if she 
should give up valuable  deferred defined benefits  and invest in a high risk, speculative 
investment. HDIFA gave her unsuitable advice and it is responsible  for the consequences  of 
that. I dont  see that HDIFA can say that Mrs As investment strategy should have been 
reviewed over the years. My understanding is that the carbon credits  investment was illiquid 
throughout. Any later advice to invest differently wouldnt have made  any difference. 
compensation
Ive thought about if its fair and reasonable for Meyado to compensate Mrs A in full. I dont 
agree that HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer.  As Ive explained,  HDIFA advised  on 
whether Mrs A should transfer. If that advice was unsuitable I dont see why HDIFA shouldnt  
be responsible  for Mrs As losses in consequence  of that unsuitable advice. 
Mrs A couldnt have invested as she did if she hadnt transferred. And my view (as discussed  
below) is that she wouldnt have transferred if HDIFA had given her suitable advice. I dont 
think my proposed redress is wrong in law or irrational. I think it reflects  the facts of the case  
and HDIFAs pivotal  part in the matter: HDIFA was in a position to prevent the transfer. 
Instead it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice that Mrs A should transfer. I dont think  
its unfair or unreasonable to say it is responsible for Mrs As losses.  If Meyado considers 
that others  have some  responsibility in the matter, its presumably open  to Meyado to pursue  
those other  parties.  I dont  think, if Meyado meets Mrs As losses in full, she would object to 
assigning her rights to Meyado.  
what would  Mrs A have done  if HDIFA had given her suitable  advice?
As Ive said my starting point as to causation is that Meyado  gave unsuitable advice to 
transfer and so is responsible for the losses which flow from the transfer  including,  for the 
reasons Ive explained, Mrs As investment losses. But Ive recognised  theres an argument  
that Mrs A may have gone ahead in any event and even if Meyado had advised her against.  
Ive seen in other cases that substantial incentive  payments were  offered and made  in return 
for investing. Weve  asked Mrs A about that. Shes told us that she didnt get any incentive  
payment. We asked her to produce bank statements  to evidence  that no payment was 
received. She did that. From what weve seen she didnt receive any incentive  payment. So 
that wouldnt have  been a motivating factor in any decision Mrs A might have made to go 
ahead, even if HDIFA had advised  her against.  
It doesnt seem that Mrs A was actively looking to do anything with her pension 
arrangements at the time. It all appears to have come about following a discussion  with a 
former business associate.  Sometimes  the influence of a close friend or relative  might  be 
paramount. But here theres  nothing to suggest  that sort of relationship  here. I dont think, 
from what Mrs A has told us, that she was particularly committed  to the investment, whether 
White Sands or carbon  credits.  Given shed  invested in property in the UK, a property 
investment (albeit  overseas and in a resort development) may have seemed attractive to her 
and something she had some, albeit not direct,  experience in. I can see she might have 
been interested in that sort of venture. But Im not sure that interest  would have been 
maintained if HDIFA had considered the investment and explained that it couldnt  
recommend it as it was too high risk, specialist,  with no track record and unregulated  with 
the possibility  that Mrs A might lose her entire investment. 
Ref: DRN77915119Im not sure why White Sands wasnt in the end available and why carbon credits was 
suggested instead. From what  Mrs A has said the carbon credits investment was sold  to 
her but Im not sure who did that  Id suspect it might have been an unregulated party, 
although, as Ive recognised that Firm A might have  given  advice  about  the investment  too. 
Mrs A now feels  she was foolish to accept what was said and invest  so Id assume whoever 
did the selling was persuasive and made  the investment seem  a good prospect. But, again, 
if HDIFA had told Mrs A she shouldnt transfer to invest in an unregulated fund (whether 
White Sands or carbon  credits), I dont see that shed have simply ignored that advice and 
gone ahead  anyway. 
Mrs A had to get regulated advice from a firm that had the necessary permissions to advise 
on defined benefit  transfers. Firm A didnt. So the transaction  the transfers and the 
investments  hinged  on HDIFAs  advice. If HDIFA had given suitable advice, HDIFA would 
have advised  Mrs A against transferring.  HDIFA would also have made  it clear  why it was 
unable to advise  Mrs A to transfer. HDIFA should have considered  the investment and 
spelled out the risks. That would have  countered  any overly positive views expressed by any 
other party. If HDIFA had done  that and told Mrs A it didnt recommend the transfers I think 
shed have thought about whether what  shed  been  told by others about what  she should  do 
with her pension  funds was such a good  idea after all.  
Mrs A had been referred to HDIFA for specialist advice because the other parties involved 
couldnt advise.  HDIFA were the experts and had the requisite  skill and experience and 
regulatory permissions  to advise on defined benefit  transfers. I think  Mrs A would have  
placed significant weight on what HDIFA said. I dont think  that its unreasonable  or irrational 
to say that Mrs A would be more likely than not to have heeded advice given by a specialist 
adviser. I think most people, in that sort of situation,  would  tend to pay attention to what a 
properly qualified and experienced adviser said.  
If HDIFA had said Mrs A shouldnt go ahead and if shed have wanted to proceed anyway, 
HDIFA would have  needed to have treated her as an insistent client. HDIFA may not have 
been willing  to act on that basis.  Even if it was, following  the correct  procedure  for insistent 
clients would  have  meant that HDIFA would have had to discuss  with Mrs A why she wanted  
to go ahead despite specialist advice against  and record her reasons. I think that would have  
further concentrated Mrs As mind on whether it was really advisable  to transfer and give up 
the security of a final salary arrangement  in favour  of benefits that were dependent on 
investment returns from a high risk, unregulated  and speculative fund. 
And, if HDIFA  wasnt prepared to process  the transfer on an insistent client basis, Mrs A 
would have needed to have found another adviser who presumably would have given her 
suitable advice   that she shouldnt transfer.
On balance I think its more likely  than not that, had HDIFA advised Mrs A not to transfer to a 
SIPP, that shed  have followed that advice  and retained her existing pension arrangements. 
Ive considered Meyados more recent comments. Meyado has referred to the case  of 
Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP)  [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). 
Meyado did indicate that it wished to make  further comments  about  the case. Weve  allowed 
Meyado ample  time to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties so I dont think its unfair  
or unreasonable to proceed  in the absence of any further detailed  submissions about the 
case and when I dont  see that the case is relevant. 
Ref: DRN779151110First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations  whereas  Mrs As complaint is made against 
her independent financial adviser. Secondly,  the issue  in the court  case was the extent, if 
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was 
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension 
arrangement. In the present case HDIFAs advice  was, in the main, in respect of the transfer 
of the value of Mrs As benefits in her former  employers defined  benefits scheme. I dont  see 
theres anything in the Adams  v Carey judgement which is obviously relevant to the present 
case.
Im upholding Mrs As complaint. So I need  to set out how Meyado  should  redress  her which  
is as I said in my provisional  decision and repeated  here. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs A as far as possible in the position shed be in now
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  Mrs A would  have retained  her deferred
benefits in her employers scheme  and not transferred her Section 32 policy or her personal
pension plan. The redress  Ive set out below essentially  requires Meyado to compare what
Mrs A would have had with what shes got in her SIPP. 
My understanding is that the SIPP was closed on 24 August 2016  all investments  had a nil 
value and there was no cash left. On that basis a nil value should  be assumed. And no 
award for future SIPP fees needs to be made. 
Ideally redress should be paid into a suitable  alternative pension  arrangement  or failing that 
direct to Mrs A. In that case,  and as Ive said below, an adjustment  for tax should be made.
what should  Meyado do?
Mrs As final salary benefits
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision, and using  the most recent financial assumptions  published
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mrs As acceptance  of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) for Mrs As
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mrs As SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance. If payment into a pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mrs A wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash sum from the employers
Ref: DRN779151111scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mrs A within 90 days  of the date Meyado
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to
pay Mrs A this part of the compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply.
Mrs As other benefits
Meyado should:
(1) Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mrs As two pension  plans if they hadnt  been
transferred to the SIPP and assuming the funds remained the same.
(2) If obtaining a notional value is difficult then the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income
Total Return Index  (prior  to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE WMA Stock  Market  Income
Total Return Index) should be used. 
That index is made up of a range of indices  with different asset classes,  mainly  UK equities 
and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher  return. Although it is called an income index, the mix and 
diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison  given  Mrs As circumstances and risk attitude (properly 
assessed). It should be assumed that any contributions or withdrawals that have  been  made  
would still have occurred  and on the same  date
(3) Obtain the current  transfer value of Mrs As SIPP  as Ive said above this is zero.
(4) Pay an amount into a suitable  pension  arrangement for Mrs A so that the transfer value is 
increased to equal  the value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
(5) The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any
existing protection  or allowance.
(6) If it is not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP  (or has protection  or
allowance implications)  it should  be paid directly  to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to 
her likely tax paying  status in retirement - presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% deduction 
adequately reflects  this.
(7) Pay Mrs A £300 for the trouble and upset caused  for the loss of her pension benefits.
Ref: DRN779151112(8) Simple interest should be added to the calculated losses  at the rate of 8% gross a
year from the date of calculation until the date of payment.
 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress 
Mrs A as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7791511