K821x#15complaint
Mrs R raises a number  of complaints about  hire purchase agreements  she has with 
Caversham Finance Limited  (trading as BrightHouse). She says goods she was 
provided with werent of satisfactory quality, that damage has been caused  to her kitchen 
floor and that BrightHouse has mishandled her accounts.
background
Mrs R has a number of hire purchase agreements with BrightHouse for various  items  
of furniture and electrical  goods.
One of these agreements  was taken out in February  2016  for a washing machine which 
was for 156 weeks,  and another taken out in March 2017 for a black  corner  sofa which  was 
for 102 weeks (the first suite).
In November  2017 Mrs R complained about the condition of the sofa as there were marks 
on the seats and the cushions were  damaged.  The visiting engineers found  that the two 
faults with the sofa were caused by Mrs R using the wrong cleaning products and misusing 
the sofa.
In January 2018 Mrs R returned the corner sofa and ended  the agreement. She took out 
another hire purchase agreement for a two seater and a three seater sofa as a 
replacement (the second suite). Mrs R said that this second agreement was supposed  to 
be like for like but it ended  up being more expensive.
In June 2018  Mrs R complained about a fault with the washing machine and an engineer  
found that the pump needed to be replaced.  The repair was completed, and Mrs R signed 
the report to say she was content with the visit and no damage  had been sustained to her 
property.
In August 2018 Mrs R raised a further complaint about the washing machine as she said 
it was ripping clothing. An engineer attended  her home  but couldnt find any fault, and 
they advised Mrs R to put in smaller loads.
In September  2018  Mrs R again complained that the washing  machine  was ripping her 
clothing. No fault was found by the engineer. However, later that month Mrs R 
complained that the washing  machine  was making a loud noise from the drum.
Mrs R also complained about the second suite saying that the leather  was peeling and 
the stitching was coming undone on both the sofas.
In October 2018 the engineer inspected the washing machine and found that the concrete 
block was broken and the drum had come  loose. He was unable to repair the washing 
machine in the house and it was arranged for another machine to be loaned to Mrs R 
while hers was repaired.
Another engineer  visited  to inspect the two sofas  and found that the peeling  and loose 
stitching was due to a manufacturers defect. He said that both sofas  would be 
uneconomical to repair.
Ref: DRN70152312At the end of October BrightHouse returned Mrs Rs washing machine but within  a few 
days she reported it had a further  fault. The engineer visited  and found that the machine 
couldnt be repaired in the home. A loan machine was arranged to be delivered to Mrs R.
Mrs R complained to BrightHouse about the quality  of both of the suites and she said 
that the washing machine had damaged her kitchen floor.
And a week  after the loaned washing machine was delivered Mrs R complained that this 
one was also faulty. The engineer that inspected it told her not to use it as the door could be 
opened while it was spinning. Another  loan washing machine  was arranged to replace it.
BrightHouse arranged for a replacement suite for the second suite and this was due to be 
delivered at the end of November 2018.  However, Mrs R decided to cancel this order.  She 
also voluntarily surrendered other items  leaving four hire purchase agreements 
outstanding.
In December  2018 Mrs R told BrightHouse that she wouldnt make any further  
payments until her complaints had been resolved.
In January 2019 BrightHouse issued a final demand notice on one of the outstanding 
agreements. It issued further  final demand  notices on the remaining three  agreements  
in January and February 2019.
Mrs R complained to this service about  the quality of the furniture, the cost of taking out the 
second agreement  for the sofas,  the damage caused by the washing machine to her 
kitchen floor and the way BrightHouse had handled  the missed payments.
Our adjudicator partially  upheld her complaint. He said that there was no evidence that 
BrightHouse had handled the missing  payments  unreasonably. Our adjudicator said Mrs 
R had an obligation  to continue  to make payments under  the remaining hire agreements.
Our adjudicator also said there wasnt any evidence that Mrs R had been  charged extra  
when taking out the second agreement for the second suite. But as the second suite  had 
been found to have manufacturing  defects  he thought it was likely theyd been defective 
from the point of sale. This was unlike the first suite where the faults had been  found to be 
due to customer use. 
Our adjudicator said it was fair for Mrs R to be reimbursed all the weekly payments shed 
made under the agreement for the second  suite together  with interest.  And that reference  
to this agreement  should be removed from Mrs Rs credit file.
Our adjudicator also said that looking at the photos provided he was satisfied that on 
balance that the damage to Mrs Rs floor had resulted from the faulty  washing 
machines. Mrs R had provided two quotes  to repair the floor and he thought  it was fair 
that BrightHouse pay her £400 towards  repairing the floor.
Finally our adjudicator said he thought BrightHouse should pay Mrs R £150 as 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
BrightHouse disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  It said there  wasnt any evidence  that 
any of the washing machines had caused  damage to Mrs Rs floor.  And that it was unfair  to 
find that Mrs R should be reimbursed for the second  suite as BrightHouse  had a right under 
Ref: DRN70152313the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 to repair or replace  defective items but had been denied  an 
opportunity to replace  as Mrs R had cancelled the replacement suite.
BrightHouse also said that it was fair for Mrs R to pay towards the usage  of the second 
suite while she had it in her possession. The sofas had been structurally sound but 
cosmetically damaged.
BrightHouse disagreed that compensation was due to Mrs R. It said it had responded to Mrs
Rs concerns and to the requests from this service for information.
Mrs R accepted the views of our adjudicator.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
Id seen that Mrs R had accepted our adjudicators view that there wasnt  any evidence  that 
BrightHouse had unfairly  charged  her more for the second  suite  or had mishandled the 
non- payment of the four remaining hire purchase agreements. I agreed  with his view and 
so I didnt deal with those issues. I also agreed  that Mrs R hadnt acted reasonably when 
she decided to stop making payments under the other hire purchase  agreements.
the first suite
Mrs R originally had a corner  unit sofa from BrightHouse but this first suite  was found  to 
have a number  of issues. Id seen that in June  2017 it was found  to have a broken frame 
and to be beyond economical repair. Im assumed that this was either  repaired or replaced 
as Mrs R hasnt raised  a similar complaint about that sofa afterwards. Her later 
complaints about  this first suite were about the cushion and the peeling of the leather. 
However these issues  were found  to have been caused by the way shed cleaned and 
used the sofa.  Mrs R returned this sofa to BrightHouse and cancelled the agreement in 
January 2018.  
In respect of this first suite I was satisfied that no repayments were due under that 
agreement as it was successfully repaired and Mrs R had then used it up until she gave it 
back.
the second suite
After returning  the corner  sofa Mrs R took possession of the second  suite  in January  2018 
which composed of a two and a three seater  sofa. Id seen that about three weeks  after 
taking delivery of Mrs R raised a complaint about the two seater sofa.  She said the black  
dye was rubbing  off and marking  things. Id seen photographs of the dye having rubbed off 
on Mrs Rs son and also those taken by the engineer who had visited  Mrs Rs home to 
inspect the sofa.  The engineer reported that this fault was due a manufacturers defect and 
that it couldnt be repaired.
Id assumed that this particular sofa was replaced  as later photographs of the second  suite
(taken after a further complaint) showed the two seater sofa was of a different colour.
Mrs R made  a further complaint about the second suite  in September  2018 which was 
around eight months after shed acquired it. The engineer again found  there  were  
manufacturing defects  to both sofas  and that they werent economical to repair.  Id seen the 
Ref: DRN70152314photographs and accepted that the appearance of the sofas was spoiled but the poor 
stitching and peeling  but the sofas  themselves appeared  to be structurally sound. 
BrightHouse agreed  to replace these items but Mrs R later cancelled that arrangement.
I thought it was likely  that these  sofas  wouldve been developing a fault at the point of sale 
and so wouldnt have  been of satisfactory  quality.  But I thought that although Mrs R 
wouldve been disappointed at the way the sofas  looked after a few months  shed still been 
able to use them.  BrightHouse said it was denied a chance to put things right as per the 
Consumer Rights Act but I wasnt surprised that after so many issues with the sofas  and 
also the washing machine that Mrs R decided not to replace these items.
So I thought  it was fair to take account  of Mrs Rs disappointment and upset that the 
second suite hadnt been of a standard that couldve been reasonably expected.  And I 
thought it was reasonable she received back some of her payments shed made for that 
suite to reflect that.
However I thought a reimbursement of 25% of the payments made under this agreement  
was fair together with interest.
damage to the floor
Mrs R had complained  that problems with the washing  machine resulted in damage to her 
floor. Id seen several photographs as well as the repair sheets prepared by BrightHouses  
engineers whod visited her home to undertake  investigations and repairs of the various 
faults with the washing  machines reported  by Mrs R. Mrs R said the floor had been  marked  
and had lifted in places due to leaks.
Id noted that a washing  machine was found to have been leaking by an engineer when 
theyd inspected it at the end of October 2018. However, the earlier  issues  didnt appear 
to have involved escaped  water though there  was a problem with the concrete block  
that stabilised the machine when it spun.
Id seen that Mrs R complained to BrightHouse that her floor had been  damaged  at the 
end of October 2018. BrightHouse hadnt  arranged for the floor to be inspected. It said 
Mrs R signed all of the various  engineers  reports, (after theyd visited  her home to 
repair the washing machine); both at the end of October and in November 2018, 
confirming that there had been no damage to her property. These reports also included 
photographs of the floor in front of the machine which hadnt appeared to show  any 
damage.
Id found some of the photographs a little unclear as to what damage had been  caused 
and whether it was permanent  or not. But I did accept on balance  that a washing 
machine that had suffered  a broken concrete  block and one that had had leaks  wouldve 
been likely  to cause  some damage to the flooring.
Id also seen that when Mrs R first raised  this matter with BrightHouse  it asked her to 
provide three quotes which would indicate that it also thought  damage was a real 
possibility.
Id seen that Mrs R originally told BrightHouse that she could only get one quote and that 
this was for £170 though this quote  was never actually  obtained.  She also told 
BrightHouse that she hadnt finished paying for the floor which  Id assumed meant the 
floor was relatively new.
Ref: DRN70152315The invoices Mrs R had provided were for considerably more than the £170 shed first given 
to BrightHouse. Mrs R had explained there was no written quote for that figure  as it had 
been for cash and that the subsequent quotes  had been from companies  who would lay the 
floor properly and move  the white goods when laying it. As I was satisfied that it was likely 
the floor was damaged by the faults with the washing machines then I thought it was fair 
that BrightHouse covered  the cost of renewing the flooring. And I accepted the lower quote 
of £400 as a fair cost to remove and replace the current flooring.
compensation
The adjudicator had recommended that BrightHouse should  make a compensation payment 
of £150 for the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mrs R. I agreed that she had had to 
deal with a number of faults developing and being  fixed which wouldve been distressing. Id 
seen that Mrs R had been lent a washing machine when hers was taken  for repairs although 
that too developed  faults.  However looking at the total impact of having to deal with the 
number of repairs and replacements I thought £100 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So for the reasons above Im intending  to partially  uphold Mrs Rs complaint and intended  to l 
ask BrightHouse to do the following:
 Reimburse  Mrs R 25% of the payments she made  under the agreement for the 
second suite with interest.
 Pay Mrs R £400 towards the cost of a repairing or replacing her kitchen floor.
 Pay Mrs R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing  
with the faulty  items.
BrightHouse has agreed with my provisional  decision  and Mrs R hasnt commented on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been asked to look again  at my provisional view and so I havent  changed  my view.  
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Im asking 
BrightHouse to repay 25% of the payments made on the second  suite  with interest, pay   
Mrs R £400 towards replacing the kitchen floor and pay her £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Im asking 
Caversham Finance Limited  to do the following:
   Reimburse Mrs R 25% of the payments she made under the agreement for the 
second suite with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
 Pay Mrs R £400 towards the cost of a repairing or replacing her kitchen floor.
Ref: DRN70152316 Pay Mrs R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing  
with the faulty  items.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7015231