K821x#15complaint
Mrs D feels that Shawbrook  Bank Limited  has treated her unfairly  in relation to some 
windows and doors she had installed.
background
In March 2017 Mrs D entered into a contract  for some windows and doors to be installed. 
These goods (the windows and doors) and services (the installation) were provided by 
Supplier and paid for with credit  provided by Shawbrook. This credit was in the form of a 
fixed sum loan agreement for a cash price of over £6600 with a total repayable amount of 
over £13,900 to be repaid over ninety-six instalments. 
Mrs D has stated throughout this dispute  that the installation was not done with reasonable 
skill and care. She has provided photos of what she says is poor workmanship. She has also 
stated repeatedly that she didnt want to have to deal with the Supplier again considering 
what has happened from the start. But she was happy to deal with other  businesses  and has 
allowed access to other businesses to provide quotes and to inspect the quality of the work 
done.
 
In October  2018 Mrs D complained to Shawbrook about the installation.  It considered  her 
complaint and issued its final response  letter late in November 2018. In essence it said it 
couldnt uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because Mrs D was refusing to let the Supplier entry to 
her property due to her previous experience with it. Shawbrook pointed  out that it could 
arrange for different individuals from the Supplier to attend if she wished.
Mrs D complained to this Service in March  2019  having had some interactions directly  with 
the Supplier without  Shawbrooks knowledge. Subsequently Shawbrook  has accepted that 
the Supplier did attend Mrs Ds property to repair the issues complained about. But Mrs D 
remains unhappy.
Our investigator has issued a number of assessments  on the matter starting in July 2020. 
Shawbrook has not accepted the main thrust of any of these assessments. Our investigator 
has recommended  essentially the same  remedy  each time. After setting out their position 
our Investigator asked  Shawbrook to arrange  an independent review of the installation  of 
doors and windows at Mrs Ds property to try to bring things to a conclusion.  Shawbrook 
chose a different  firm to the Supplier who then inspected the installation work at the property. 
This firm carried out an inspection and has stated the following in its site report dated  23 
October 2020:
We have attended site regarding  the reported  damage  to the property.
The workmanship on this job is inadequate.
The customer is getting damp, cold and mould around all the windows.
The first finishing off is not up to standard with trims  not fitted  properly. In order  to correct  all 
this this will require all new windows and doors and also a builder and a plaster  to come 
round after to sort out all the mess on the inside.
To rectify we would need to replace 10 Windows, a Replacement Bay Window, UPVC  Door 
and Composite Front  Door.
Shawbrook has since put forward  arguments from the Supplier that the independent report  
that Shawbrook  sourced  and organised is unreliable. The Supplier has said The 
Ref: DRN78588282Respondent (it having earlier defined  itself as the Respondent)  has not failed in its service 
provided nor has it failed in its delivery of products. 
Mrs D feels she has been treated very badly and feels that the redress  put forward  by the 
Investigator is insufficient considering what Shawbrook has done throughout this dispute.  As 
both parties disagree  with the position of the Investigator this dispute comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
All parties  concerned have provided  a wealth of comment and argument on these matters.  I 
have considered them all. However I will only address those  that I see as key to a fair 
resolution of this matter  and explanation  thereof.
Mrs D raised her complaint under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where  
goods and/or services  are provided. However it must be remembered that although this 
legislation places obligations on Shawbrook, it is a different  entity to the Supplier.  And my 
decision here is whether  or not Shawbrook  has treated Mrs D fairly  in relation to those 
obligations and duties Shawbrook must adhere  to. 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs D has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier  of goods  or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider  (Shawbrook  here) provided certain conditions are met. 
Shawbrook says does  not agree that there  has been  a breach or misrepresentation here.
To gain protection under Section 75 there  are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there  has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required  three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor  and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also.  
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory  quality. It also 
says services must be provided  with reasonable skill and care.  
On balance Im satisfied that these windows and doors havent been installed with 
reasonable skill and care. And accordingly  Im upholding this complaint.  Im satisfied on 
balance they havent been  installed properly for the following reasons:
Mrs D has provided consistent and persuasive testimony that this is the case.
Mrs D has provided photos which show a variety of issues with the installed items  
The Suppliers own schedules of works dated  January  2019  and March 2018 (both of 
which show the original  installation  needs  remedial  work).
The independent site report dated  23 October  2020 provided by the independent firm 
that Shawbrook  chose and engaged which shows issues  remaining with the work 
Ref: DRN78588283done by the Supplier and recommending reinstallation of 10 Windows,  a 
Replacement Bay Window,  UPVC Door and Composite  Front  Door
A lack of persuasive  evidence that all issues have been fully repaired  (if at all)
In my decision making I have given  significant weighting to the independent report  as it is a 
fresh pair of eyes on the Suppliers work by a third party. I also consider Mrs Ds comments  
consistent and persuasive. I note that I have given  lesser weighting to comments made by 
the Supplier particularly  around the issue of its comments regarding the repairs  having been 
completed as it has not provided what Id consider persuasive evidence  to support its 
position such as photographs for example.  And of course the fact that the independent 
report was carried out after the repairs were supposedly completed.
Accordingly I find that Shawbrook must  arrange and pay for the windows and doors to be 
reinstalled, cover the cost of any necessary remedial  work and pay £350 in recognition  of the 
distress and inconvenience that Mrs D has suffered.
I now turn to some of the points the parties have put forward.
The issue  of Mrs D mitigating her losses has been raised  by Shawbrook. Firstly if the 
installation had been properly completed  there  wouldnt  have been  any direct losses to 
mitigate in the first place. Secondly  if the Supplier had repaired the issues  when it 
subsequently visited the property there would have been no direct losses  to mitigate  from 
that point either. And as the Investigator noted Shawbrook is has and had the opportunity to 
mitigate its own losses by properly repairing matters. But it didnt.
However I do agree with Shawbrook on this mitigation point with regard to the consequential  
losses issue. Im not persuaded Mrs D can claim for the consequential issues  shes  pointed 
to such as mattresses, carpets  and the like. I say this because  although Shawbrook are 
required to remedy their faults its liability is not infinite or everlasting.  Its clear Mrs D was 
well aware  there were draughts and damp  and Im not persuaded she has taken sufficient 
steps to mitigate  these  consequential costs from what shes said.  Furthermore Im not 
persuaded that the consequential damage she has pointed to has been  properly  made out 
nor attributed solely to what Shawbrook is responsible for. So I dont think  it fair to include 
those items  in the redress here.
Neither party is in favour  of the distress and inconvenience award put forward  by the 
Investigator. Shawbrook say it is too much and Mrs D not enough.  Shawbrook  has known 
that Mrs D was unhappy with what Shawbrook is responsible  for a number of years. It has 
been aware that the Supplier attended  again  after complaining to Shawbrook. It has had the 
benefit of our Investigator explaining  matters to it on a number of occasions. I note that the 
issue of an independent report was raised  on more than one occasion  before Shawbrook 
sourced one. As Shawbrook knows it has a potential liability under the legislation  Ive 
described. It, from at least November 2018, has had the option  of taking an independent 
review by another supplier or expert  of the installation work  in this matter  if it so wished. It 
has put reasons  forward for this decision.  But Shawbrook  in so doing  put itself at risk of not 
having an independent view on the matter  until much later. And now that an independent 
review of the work has established significant failings with the installation  it finds itself in the 
position of putting forward the Suppliers unpersuasive arguments about  the reliability of the 
independent review of the work  it sourced. 
Considering this and the repeated guidance the Investigator provided to Shawbrook over a 
significant amount  of time and the even longer period of time it could have fixed matters  by 
Ref: DRN78588284its own accord, I will not be reducing  the award for the distress and inconvenience 
Shawbrook has caused.
Mrs D has argued  it should be increased.  I will not be doing  this either. I understand why she 
will be disappointed in this. However I think it more important to fairness and finality to bring  
this matter to a close by issuing  a final decision and directing Shawbrook  to fix what it is 
responsible for. This will bring closure to these matters which  have continued far longer than 
it they should have.
Shawbrook points to the time taken for this service to reach  a decision. Shawbrook has had 
the entire period to treat Mrs D fairly. It could have performed an independent  report much 
earlier or sought more  persuasive evidence from the Supplier that there  was no issues to 
remedy. It chose not to do this but rather to repeatedly not accept our Investigators position 
or indeed  that of the independent report it itself sourced. Accordingly I see no persuasive 
reason to amend my position due to this.
On balance Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things  right
I direct  Shawbrook  Bank Limited to:
arrange and pay for the windows and doors to be reinstalled, 
cover  the cost of any necessary remedial work therein 
and pay £350  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience that Mrs D has 
suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about  
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7858828