K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct) rejected his claim for a 
refund of his purchase of a television under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
In June 2016 Mr M bought a Samsung television.  He paid £1,499  with his First Direct credit 
card. He says one of the reasons he chose that TV was because it was advertised as having 
a particular feature:  purchasers would be provided, at a later date, with a free SmartThings 
Extend dongle, which would enable them to control other devices around their home through 
the TV. But in June 2018, he discovered  that this feature would never  be available, because  
Samsung had withdrawn it. In December, Mr M complained to the retailer.  The retailer  
offered him a substitute  dongle,  the SmartThings Hub,  and also £150, but did not agree to a 
full refund. Mr M did not accept that offer,  because  the substitute  dongle did not provide all of 
the features  that were  promised  with the original, so it was not an adequate replacement.
Mr M then asked  First Direct for a refund under section  75. He said the TV was not as 
described, and that this was misrepresentation by the retailer,  and also a breach of contract, 
due to the provisions  of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. When  HSBC  declined, he brought 
this complaint to our Service.  He showed  us a decision by another  ombudsman service,  
upholding a similar complaint brought by someone else.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said the retailers adverts did not actually 
mention that a SmartThings Extend dongle would be provided with the TV, nor did it mention 
any of the features Mr M had described. She agreed that the manufacturer  had marketed the 
dongle, but the retailer was not responsible for that. The retailer  had published information 
about the dongle on its website in March 2016, but that had been accurate  at the time, and 
the retailer had not known  that the product  would  not be released,  so she did not think it was 
a false statement of fact. She couldnt  hold First Direct responsible for Samsungs decision 
to withdraw the feature. She also said that as Mr M had not noticed the problem for two 
years, and had only complained two and a half years after he bought the TV, the feature had 
probably not been important to him. So it probably  had not induced him to buy the TV.
Mr M said that an innocent misrepresentation by the retailer was enough.  He didnt have to 
prove that the retailer knew the article was (or might be) false. He argued  that it shouldnt  
matter whether the feature  had been  a major factor or a minor one in his choice of TV. Even 
a small matter might have caused him to choose that TV over another  one, and so 
misrepresentation would still be established. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen an archived  page from (originally) the retailers  website, which describes the TV 
and the functions which will be available when it is used with the SmartThings Extend 
dongle. It says the dongle will become  available  to purchasers of the TV, for free, within 
2016. It appears that in 2017  Samsung decided not to release  the dongle  after all.
I agree  that an innocent  misrepresentation  is actionable, and is covered by section 75. 
However, the advert was true when it was published, and when Mr M bought the TV. It 
Ref: DRN72239632subsequently became  untrue, as a result of the actions of the manufacturer,  but the retailer  
isnt liable for that, because its not even  an innocent misrepresentation  it is no 
misrepresentation at all. To be a misrepresentation, it would have to have been untrue when 
Mr M bought  the TV. But Samsung dont appear  to have cancelled the feature until after that.
For the same reason,  I dont think the statement  amounts  to a failure to comply  with section 
11 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  which requires goods to conform to their description. 
I think the advert describing the future capabilities of the TV, with the dongle,  falls within the 
definition of the description of the TV, because of what  it says in section 11(4)  of the Act 
(which refers, in a rather indirect  way, to the main  characteristics of the goods, which I think 
includes future characteristics). But it was a description of what  the TV would  be capable of 
in the future, not when  it was sold, and so the description was true when it was made. The 
TV, without the dongle, was not yet capable of providing the enhanced features that the 
dongle would confer on it. So the TV did everything  it was supposed to do on the day it was 
sold. At some point in 2017, the description  of the TV became untrue, and I agree that at that 
point the TV no longer  conformed to the contract. But I cannot agree that the retailer  is liable 
for that problem. It happened because of circumstances entirely  out of the retailers  control.
So for the above reasons,  I do not believe that an action against the retailer for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation would be likely to succeed. Since First Directs liability under 
section 75 is the same as the retailers, it follows that First Direct was entitled to decline 
Mr Ms claim  against it under that section.
Finally, I have read the decision  of the other ombudsman service, which I agree is about the 
same issue  as this complaint, but I am afraid  that I do not find it persuasive. It does not set 
out the authors reasoning. It refers to an investigation carried out by the author, but does not 
say what he or she found out. It does not attempt to explain why the author concluded that 
the retailer in that complaint was liable.  So that decision does not change my mind.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7223963