K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about her let property insurer Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
(RSA) in respect of claims she made to it for lost rent and malicious damage.
background
Mrs C had to take action to remove her tenant from the property. Possession was gained  
on 12 May 2017. There were some  rent arrears and when Mrs C visited the property she 
found lots of damage that needed  repairing  before the property  could be re-let. She made 
claims to RSA for lost rent, council  tax and malicious  damage.
RSA felt that the damage wasnt all malicious and that, for the parts which  had been  
caused in that manner,  they had likely happened  at different times. It said council tax 
wasnt a claimable item. Mrs C submitted repairs estimates totaling £10,440.65.  RSA 
said, at the end of September  2017,  that it would  pay a total of £5,688.50. It explained 
how it had reached  this figure and that included  confirmation that five excess  payments 
were being  deducted.
Regarding lost rental income; RSA said Mrs C had taken cover based on an annual  
income of £450,  whereas the true rate was £450 per month. It said she was underinsured 
and, having taken that into account,  all it could pay her was £37.50.
Mrs C was unhappy. As well as feeling the settlement offer was too low, she felt shed 
been treated poorly by the loss adjuster and that the claim had taken too long. She 
accepted the settlement on an interim basis and complained to this service.  She later, 
around 3 July 2018, completed the reinstatement of the property.
Our investigator felt that the damage  had only occurred after the tenant had been asked 
to move out and so felt RSA should  only apply one excess. Regarding  rental income he 
noted RSA couldnt show what Mrs C was asked when she arranged  the policy and felt 
the schedule was likely not clear enough  to let Mrs C know  a mistake may have occurred. 
On balance he felt RSA should  pay her claim based  on rental income  of £450 per month.
Mrs C didnt think the view issued answered the concerns shed raised  about  items being 
missed from the settlement or the seemingly arbitrary deductions that had been applied 
to the repair  estimate  amounts. Our investigator then told RSA it should review its 
settlement; paying for anything that appeared to have been caused maliciously.
RSA said it felt it had settled the damage claim fairly. It said it could have set this up as 
multiple claims but instead  had only logged one and only taken an excess  from each 
grouped area of damage.  It felt Mrs C had made a mistake regarding  the rental  income 
and it should be allowed  to apply the terms of the policy  accordingly.
The complaint came to me for a decision to be made. I noted that RSA felt it had already 
made a fair settlement  for what it considered amounted to the malicious damage at the 
property. So I felt it was necessary  to look at the disputed  repairs.  And I felt a specific 
amount should  be set regarding what rental  income  RSA should pay. I also wanted  to 
share my view with the parties on the claim handling  concerns  Mrs C had raised. I issued 
a provisional decision  setting out my views on the complaint and what I felt RSA needed  
to do to put things  right.  I said:
Ref: DRN73699092my provisional findings
malicious damage
I have some sympathy with RSAs  decision to settle in the way that it did. But Im not 
convinced that the actual  settlement made was wholly  reasonable. There  were eleven  
estimates. RSA agreed to make some payment against seven of them,  having  first taken 
an excess from five of them. The remaining four it refused to pay for a variety of reasons. 
Ive looked at each below.  I've then considered  the situation with the excesses.
Supply and install bathroom suite  The estimate for this was £950. RSA accepted the 
bath had been damaged  so said it would deduct  the excess from the estimate  and pay 
50% of the remaining  cost. Mrs C said the sink had been damaged  as well. RSA said that 
would be a separate claim and attract a separate excess. Here  I think RSA was wrong.  
The damage reported to bath and sink are the same  splashed  gloss  paint. So its the 
same damage in the same area  reasonably then this damage has been caused as one 
act and RSA is liable for replacing the bath and sink. Im not convinced  it was ever liable 
for replacing  the toilet though, or reasonably needed to pay towards  that. I say that 
because I havent  seen that it was damaged such  as to need  replacing or that to not 
replace it would create a lack of match in the bathroom (it seems to have been a 
standard white suite). Because Mrs Cs quote isnt broken down, I dont know what each 
of the individual items cost to supply and fit. I think its fair and reasonable, in the 
absence of evidence  otherwise, to break  the cost into thirds;  £316.68 per item. That 
means that for the bath and sink RSA reasonably has to pay £633.36.
Cleaning  The estimate for this was £140. The estimate  referred to both general  
cleaning, and cleaning  after building  work.  RSA said this cost was below the excess  so 
wouldnt be paid. I take from this that it would have paid any cost over and above the 
excess. Whilst Ill be looking  below  at what excesses I think  RSA can reasonably charge I 
think the cleaning  costs are necessary as a result of the malicious  damage  and, 
therefore, wouldnt be subject to an individual excess. RSA should pay £140 for cleaning.
Supply and fit nine internal doors  The cost for this was £675. RSA deducted the excess 
and paid the rest. So, theres no debate regarding the extent of RSAs  liability for the cost 
of doors,  thats £675. Ill deal below with what  excess RSA can charge.
Carpet replacement   The cost for this was £1,851.50.  RSA deducted the excess and 
paid the rest. So, again, theres  no debate regarding the extent  of RSAs liability for the 
cost of replacing the carpets, thats £1,851.50.  Ill deal below with what  excess  RSA can 
charge.
UPVC  The cost for this was estimated at £380.  RSA said it would deduct the excess  
and pay the remainder. Mrs C said that didnt account for the broken door panel. 
However, the estimate did list a new door panel  as being part of the work priced for. So 
I think RSAs liability,  before consideration is given to the excess  it can apply, is that 
reflected by the estimate of £380.
Decoration  The estimate for this was £1,720. RSA said it felt that the estimate equated 
to betterment in some respects. It felt it would  be fair for it to deduct  an excess and then 
pay £1,000. I have a problem with this part of RSAs offer because it hasnt explained or 
set out what its thinks is betterment  or how a figure of £1,000 has been reached.  
Ref: DRN73699093However, I can understand why it doesnt think it should be responsible for re-painting 
the whole  house. I cant readily see from the damage listed  by Mrs C, why every  room 
would need decorating as a result of malicious damage.  I can see that in the kitchen the 
walls were gouged and that in one bedroom  there was graffiti  on the wall. So I accept 
that these rooms would have needed  redecorating.  But theres nothing similar listed 
against the other rooms that would  make me think theyd  need redecorating. So, unless 
Mrs C can persuade me that more rooms needed decorating as a result of malicious 
damage, I wont say RSA should pay more. That means that the cost Im currently  
satisfied RSA is liable for in respect  of redecorating  is £1,250  (the amount RSA applied  
the excess to), and Ill consider what excess RSA can charge below.
Skip  The estimate was for £470 (£564 including VAT). But this was broken down to 
£210 each for two skips and £25 each  for two permits for the skips (plus VAT). RSA said 
it would  pay £250  for one skip. It didnt seek to take an excess. Mrs C said she could 
accept that only one skip should  reasonably  be covered by RSA because the tenant left a 
lot of stuff that needed disposing of which RSA wasnt responsible  for. But she couldnt 
understand why it wouldnt  pay for a permit to go with that. I think Mrs C has a point. Im 
satisfied that RSA should be paying £277  for a skip and permit (£235  plus VAT).
Kitchen and lighting  The estimate  for the kitchen replacement was £3,864, and Mrs Cs 
cost for the replacement  lighting  was £63.82. Regarding the lighting RSA said this would 
be a separate  claim and fell below the excess. Therefore, it wouldnt pay for it. As RSA 
accepted multiple  other items and areas  of damage  in the kitchen  as having occurred 
together, I dont see that its fair to single out the lighting as being separate. So Ill factor 
that in here. That will be its whole cost because this item did require replacement.
Regarding the kitchen  quote RSA said it could contribute 50% (£1,932).  It didnt seek  to 
take an excess. But, similar to the decorating, RSA didnt give any reasoning for it paying 
50% or to explain why it felt this was fair. However,  also similar to the decorating, I can 
see damage in the kitchen that RSA likely wasnt liable for under the policy  such  as 
peeling cupboards. Further, whilst Ive seen pictures  showing cupboard  doors hanging 
off, I havent  seen that these couldnt  be repaired, or that all the carcasses or worktops 
were damaged beyond  repair such as to reasonably require RSA to pay for a full new 
kitchen. I also cant be satisfied that Mrs Cs replacement estimate reflected a kitchen like 
that she had before. The damaged units appeared to have a standard painted wood 
effect finish, whereas  the estimate details  white gloss. And gloss units are both different 
to and often more costly  than wood/wood  effect.  So again, on this occasion, I am 
prepared to accept  that RSA having made some offer towards  the kitchen, even though  it 
hasnt quantified  that sum, is reasonable. Ill add the cost of the lights  to the offer for the 
kitchen. That means I find that RSAs  reasonable liability for resolving damage  in the 
kitchen is £1,995.80.
Locks  The cost for this was £87.33.  RSA said this would  relate to a separate incident  of 
damage, therefore, attracting its own excess. As such, because the total repair  cost was 
below the excess  amount  it wouldnt  pay anything. I take from this that it would have paid 
any cost for this above the excess. Therefore, I think RSAs liability  for lock repair can be 
seen to be £87.33 and the issue of what excesses it can take from the overall settlement 
will be considered below.
Fireplace  The estimate for this was £239.  RSA said this would be a separate claim and 
subject to a further  excess. As the cost was less than the excess  amount, it wouldnt pay 
anything for this. As with the locks above, I see RSAs liability for this  given its only 
Ref: DRN73699094objection against  payment  is the excess  to be £239,  with the excess issue being 
considered separately.
Excess  Ive considered whether RSA has acted  fairly in seeking  to apply multiple 
excesses. I think it could  reasonably have applied  three but not five. Thats  because  the 
policy clearly allows  for an excess to be taken for each of the different types  of damage 
covered. Whilst RSA hasnt sought  to split the damage out in any way, I think I can see at 
least three different  types of damage  having occurred (malicious  damage, accidental 
damage and theft).  I cant  reasonably ignore  that. I think its fair to reflect  the different 
types of damage, even though RSA is prepared to log only one claim, by allowing three  
excesses to be taken.
Im not going  to allow RSA to apply any more  excesses than that though.  The policy  isnt 
clear about  an excess being taken in respect of every  instance of a type of damage 
occurring. And in fact it explains  that an excess will be taken from the settlement amount 
paid for each claim. Whilst it isnt clear that all this damage happened  as part of one 
instance, Mrs C made  one claim to RSA as soon as all of the damage was found. So 
I think three excesses, to reflect the three  claims RSA could reasonably  have logged,  are 
the most  it can reasonably apply.
Overall damage claim payment  Three excesses equate to £750.  The total of the sums 
above, that I found RSA to be liable for regarding damage, is £7,528.99.  Taking  £750  
from that amount  leaves  a figure  of £6,778.99  for RSA to pay as a fair and reasonable 
settlement of the damage claim. If RSA has already paid the £5,668.50 offered, it can 
deduct this from the amount Ive found its liable to pay and pay the remainder. I think  its 
reasonable to require  it pay interest*  on the amount now due from 29 September  2017,  
which is the date of its settlement offer, until payment is made.
lost rent
Whilst the policy gives an allowance  (in rather unclear terms)  for RSA to settle 
proportionally where the sum insured is less than the income,  RSA has been unable  to 
show us what Mrs C was asked about  the amount of cover when she arranged  the policy. 
It has shown us the schedule but that isnt the same thing. It has shown us a screen shot 
showing what information appears if a help icon is selected. But in order to fairly rely on 
a proportional  settlement  term within  a policy, RSA first has to show that it asked a clear  
question about  the sum to be insured when the policy was arranged. The information 
within the help icon is insufficient in that respect,  and the other documents  came after the 
sale. So Im satisfied that its not fair or reasonable for RSA to seek to settle the loss of 
rent claim proportionately.
RSAs proportionate offer for loss of rent was based on one months  loss. It hasnt though  
explained why that is a fair period. And its settlement offer  regarding  repairs as well as 
lost rent  wasnt made until four and a half months after the loss was notified to it. So Im 
not satisfied thats  a reasonable  assessment  of Mrs Cs likely loss. Ive considered  then 
what period should be applied. As a starting point RSA should  fairly cover the loss 
incurred during those first four and a half months.
There were clearly some substantial repairs that were  required. And whilst  Mrs C has 
challenged RSAs  settlement in that respect, and Ive found  it wasnt wholly reasonable, 
the end figure Ive determined that RSA should  pay isnt vastly  different. I dont think  its 
so different that the lesser  amount  would  likely  have greatly impacted Mrs Cs ability  to 
Ref: DRN73699095carry out the repairs in a timely manner. Therefore, if repairs took longer than they 
reasonably should have  done, Ive not seen anything that makes me think  that was likely 
RSAs fault. I see that the settlement was offered in September 2017  and Mrs C had 
completed repairs, sufficiently to allow the property  to be re-marketed, by the beginning 
of April 2018. Thats around six months later.
I note though that RSAs settlement for the kitchen, arguably the most  time consuming 
piece of reinstatement work, was made on a 50% basis. And I felt that was fair. Ive also 
found it wasnt responsible for the entire bathroom  replacement or all of the decorating 
work. So it cant fairly be said to be responsible for the whole six month  period  of 
repair/lost rent.
I think its reasonable to apply the same basis to the loss of rent period as applies to the 
repairs  it had roughly  50% liability for resolving  the damage,  so that would equate to 
roughly half of the period  necessary for repairs to be carried  out. That means I think RSA 
should pay for three months lost rent for the period  after which  its settlement offer was 
made, in addition to the four and a half months  Ive said above  it should pay. That gives a 
total of seven and a half months liability for RSA for lost rent, at £450 per month  - a total 
of £3,375 (less the previously offered £37.50 if this has already been  paid).  I think  
interest* on each monthly rental amount  that makes up this figure  should  also be paid 
from the date it would have been  accrued until settlement  is made.
The cover doesnt  seek to take an excess in respect of loss of rent claims.  But it does 
only cover  for rent lost as a result of the insured damage. Sometimes  I might  view that as 
including any period necessary for re-marketing  the property in order  to secure new 
tenants. However, here, because the tenants were evicted the need to re-let the property 
really stemmed  from that, rather than the insured  damage. So RSAs liability to Mrs C 
regarding lost rent is limited to what Ive set out above.
Similarly the loss of rent section does provide cover  for any costs, including legal fees, 
which you incur in re-letting the buildings.  However,  this loss, like the rent itself has to 
have resulted from the damage covered by the policy. Here, in my view,  the cost of 
re-letting the property stems from the tenant  having been evicted rather than the property 
having been damaged.
claim handling
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the loss adjuster acted poorly here, as 
Mrs C has alleged. His emails seem  professional  and, its quite usual for a full mandate  to 
be requested in this sort of instance,  rather than just relying on authorisation given within  
a chain of emails. As far as I can see, once the loss adjuster had a mandate  from Mrs Cs 
loss assessor, the adjuster and assessor  dealt directly with each other.
I realise it must have  been frustrating for Mrs C for the claim to have taken several  
months, and likely more so once only a partial settlement was offered. However, I dont 
think a period of around four months was too long in the circumstances here. I see that in 
July Mrs C was still arranging estimates  for the work and that once these were received 
RSA felt it necessary  to make enquiries.  There was a query over one contractor in 
respect of VAT. These enquiries concluded towards  the end of August, with RSAs offer  
having given consideration to the damage  and the extent of the estimates for repair   
coming at the end of September. Im satisfied  it didnt cause any unreasonable  delays.
Ref: DRN73699096overall
I think RSA didnt offer a fair settlement for Mrs Cs claim, both in terms of the cost to 
repair damage and rent lost. I think it now needs to pay more to Mrs C. But Im not going 
to require it to pay compensation as I think it handled the claim reasonably.
In response Mrs C said:
bathroom  was I suggesting that £316.68  was the cost for supply and fit of the toilet. 
She said a basic toilet costs around £100.
decorating whilst Id referred to the list shed  submitted, the photos provided showed  
that every room of the house needed  decorating. 
kitchen  doors and worktops couldnt be repaired. There was a lot of work to be done in 
the kitchen and reducing the estimated cost by 50% is too much.
estimates  she was never given advice about  what to get estimates for or that the 
estimates obtained werent detailed enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
bathroom  because Mrs Cs estimate  isnt broken  down and I didnt  think  RSA was 
responsible for paying for all of it, I had to determine what a fair contribution towards that 
total would  be. There were  three  items included in the estimate  for replacement. Prices 
for sanitary  items vary, as do the costs  for fitting each item. And I have no way of 
knowing what style or type of item was subject  of the estimate;  whether  it was basic or 
not. With only the fact of one price to cover  three  items  to work with, I felt that the only fair 
option was to split the cost three ways. That means that RSA, being responsible for two 
out of the three items (not the toilet), fairly  has to pay two-thirds  of the estimate;  £633.36 
decorating  the photos show every room.  But the list that Mrs C provided stating what  
she was claiming for, for which the photos  were provided as illustration,  didnt  include 
damage that would  necessitate decorating in every room. And Im mindful  that most 
tenanted properties need redecorating between tenants but not as a result of any insured 
damage. In this case I can only require RSA to resolve decorations that have been  
affected by malicious  and/or accidental damage and/or theft. I realise Mrs C would like 
me to make RSA pay more but, having considered everything, I remain  satisfied that 
what I said provisionally, regarding the costs for decoration that RSA should pay, is fair 
and reasonable.  Im not going  to amend my provisionally suggested award for this.
kitchen  I have  no evidence which shows that the cupboard doors couldnt be repaired 
and had to be replaced. Even if that were  the case, it wouldnt necessitate all the 
carcasses being replaced. Nor would some  water damage in the sink area.  And if the 
carcasses hadnt been replaced there wouldnt have been any need to remove  and re-fit 
all of the appliances. The gloss replacement chosen by Mrs C may not have cost more 
than shed have  paid for units  like those she had before. But again  I have  no evidence to 
show this is the case. And in my experience  gloss often costs  more. I understand Mrs Cs 
frustration but having  reviewed matters  I remain of the view stated provisionally  RSAs  
offer to pay for half of the kitchen estimate, once  the cost of the lights is added, is fair and 
reasonable. Im not going to amend my provisionally  suggested award in this respect.
Ref: DRN73699097estimates  I appreciate  that Mrs C obtained estimates  that she felt were sufficient. If 
RSA had been prepared to accept  liability for all of the repairs then they probably  would  
have been. But because the estimates  covered work  that RSA felt it wasnt liable for, and 
I was satisfied it wasnt liable for, the level of detail wasnt sufficient to determine the 
exact cost incurred by Mrs C in fixing insured damage. However, because  Im able to 
assess complaints on a fair and reasonable basis Ive still been  able to determine that 
RSAs settlement was insufficient and set out what I think it reasonably needs to pay. Its 
quite standard  for insurers to ask for estimates  without  advising what should be included 
in them.  So RSA didnt  do anything wrong  by not advising  Mrs C in this respect. 
Having considered the points raised by Mrs C, I remain satisfied that my provisional 
findings provide  a fair and reasonable settlement for this complaint. Those findings now 
form part of this final decision.
my decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mrs C:
£6,788.99, in settlement of the damage  claim but less any settlement already made in 
this respect, plus interest* from 29 September 2017 until settlement is made.
£3,375, for lost rent, plus interest* on each monthly amount that makes  up this sum 
from the date it would have been accrued until settlement  is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due 
to Mrs C, it should  tell her how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7369909