K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 1998.  Mr W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-
sold him the PPI.
Mr W took out the hire purchase agreement and PPI in a shop  but FICL  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr W says that he didnt  realise that PPI had been  sold to him, but this is understandable 
given how long ago it happened.  So the first thing  I need to consider is if FICL  made  it clear  
that the PPI was optional, and got his consent to add it to the agreement. And having done 
so, I think that it did. I say this because  FICL  has provided a copy  of Mr Ws hire purchase 
agreement  and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and Mr W has signed to 
select it  this is separate to his signature  for the lending.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Mr W has told us about some  medical issues hed had prior to taking out the PPI  but from 
what hes said, it doesnt appear they were  ongoing issues,  and I dont think he wouldve 
thought he needed to make a claim for them  so I dont think  they wouldve impacted his 
decision in taking the policy. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but these points dont change  my decision,  and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN76993672Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7699367