K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a 
claim he made on his legal expenses insurance  policy.
Mr A says that DAS should fund his claim.
background
In September  2018 Mr A made a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy to bring a 
claim against his neighbour for trespass.  
DAS passed the matter  to a panel  firm to consider.  The panel  firm looked  into things and 
advised Mr A that the evidence hed provided didnt establish a trespass.  They said hed 
need to obtain a surveyors report to help prove  this at his own cost, following which theyd 
assess whether the claim had any merit. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with this as he thought  hed provided enough evidence to establish a 
claim against his neighbour. Because of this he asked DAS to fund his claim and allow him 
to appoint his own solicitor. DAS refused but said theyd  be prepared  to reconsider if Mr A 
was able to obtain a legal opinion of his own which said his claim had reasonable prospects 
of success.  They also agreed for their panel firm to reassess Mr As claim in light of some 
further documents he wanted reviewed. 
The panel  firm reviewed  those documents and said their advice remained the same; Mr A 
would need to obtain supportive surveyors evidence to establish  a claim in trespass. 
Mr A then obtained a surveyors  report and put that to DAS. DAS in turn asked the panel firm 
to consider it. The panel firm said the report related to the wrong boundary  so they werent 
able to assess the merits of Mr As claim.  Mr A wasnt happy with this so referred  his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator considered Mr As complaint  and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that DAS were entitled to rely on their panel firms opinion and that Mr A hadnt  provided 
the panel firm with enough evidence  to establish that his claim had reasonable prospects of 
success. 
Mr A then provided DAS with a surveyors report for the correct boundary. DAS passed  this 
to their panel firm to assess.  The panel  firm considered the report  and concluded that Mr As 
claim didnt  have reasonable  prospects  of success. Because  of this DAS said it wouldnt 
fund Mr As claim. Mr A raised a further  complaint with our service  about this. A second  
investigator reviewed this and concluded that this complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
Mr A is unhappy with both of the assessments conducted by this service. For the sake of 
completeness both complaints have been  referred  to me to determine.  I shall do so in this 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN72149662It is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies  that any intended claim has a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr As policy is no exception. It says that for cover to be 
provided reasonable prospects of success must  exist for the duration of the claim. For civil 
cases that means that the policyholder will recover losses or damages or obtain  any other 
legal remedy DAS have  agreed to, as assessed by DAS preferred law firm. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action  can be expensive. A privately paying customer  
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed.  We wouldnt  expect  a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate  the merits 
of the underlying claim. Instead, as the two investigators have explained, we look at whether 
the insurer has acted  fairly.  So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers,  
we wont generally  question their reliance  on that advice, unless we think  it was obviously 
wrong or based  on factual mistakes.  DAS did this. The panel firms advice has consistently 
been that the claim doesnt have reasonable prospects of success-  initially because  there  
was no expert evidence to support it and subsequently  because  the evidence wasnt  strong  
enough to justify litigation. I understand  that the panel firm were suitably qualified  in dealing  
with property litigation cases similar  to Mr As. So DAS was generally entitled  to rely on their 
advice and Im not aware of any reason why it should not have done  so in this case.  
Im conscious of Mr As position that the panel  firms advice was flawed and that the matter  
ought to have been referred to a firm of solicitors of his choosing  to consider. But I dont 
think DAS had to do this. Rather  it was up to Mr A to obtain a contrary legal opinion  on the 
merits of his claim, at his own cost. If such an opinion was supportive  then DAS have said 
theyd consider the claim again. Theyve  also said that if Mr A obtains a supportive barristers 
opinion theyll reimburse him for the cost of this. I think  this is reasonable. In the absence of 
a supportive legal opinion DAS arent obliged to fund anything more. And Im not able to 
consider Mr As concerns about the panel firm or the quality of the legal advice provided by 
them. Thats because that firm of solicitors has its own regulator and complaints process. If 
Mr A remains unhappy with the advice provided  he can address this directly with the panel  
firm or through the Legal Ombudsman.
Mr A is unhappy hes had to fund a surveyors report and that this hasnt led to his claim 
being funded. But I dont  think that means  DAS did anything  wrong.  The advice of the panel 
firm was that hed need  a supportive report to help establish  his claim had prospects of 
success but there was a risk that obtaining a report wouldnt do this. So I think  the risks of 
funding a report were  made  clear  to Mr A from the outset. And I dont think that DAS needed  
to bear the cost of that report. Thats because it was for Mr A to establish he had an 
actionable claim. The advice as it stands  is that he doesnt under the terms of the policy.  
Mr A is of course  free to pursue the claim on a privately paying basis,  should he wish to do 
so. 
Finally, Mr A has made  some comments about  the sale of legal expenses insurance  policies 
more generally. Thats  not something Im considering in this decision.  Rather,  Ive limited my 
investigation of this complaint to the specific issues  that have affected  Mr As claim.  If Mr A is 
concerned about  legal expenses insurance  policies more generally, hes entitled  to raise this 
with the Financial Conduct Authority directly.
Ref: DRN72149663my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  against  DAS Legal Expenses  
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7214966