K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has completed unnecessary 
credit searches and recorded it on his credit file.
background
Mr C says he applied for a current account with RBS on 7 February 2019. He says because 
he didnt requested a credit facility a hard credit search shouldnt  have  been  completed.  He 
is also concerned  as two further checks were completed (on 6 February 2019 and 
3 November 2018) and Mr C says he only opened one account with RBS and this has 
impacted his credit file.
RBS looked into the matter and issued its final response on 1 April 2019. Originally it said 
only one hard credit  search was carried out when  Mr C opened his account  on                      
7 February 2019.  It went on to explain that whilst Mr C didnt have a credit  facility on that 
account, the option to have one in future was there and so a hard credit search is completed. 
This is in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Shortly after RBS did confirm that more than one search had been completed and recorded 
on Mr Cs credit file. But unfortunately it was still unable to establish  why extra searches had 
been carried out. RBS offered £150 and confirmed the searches had been removed from   
Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C remained  unhappy so he brought his complaint  to our service. Our investigator  looked 
into the complaint  and agreed that RBS could have done more to investigate  why three 
credit searches had appeared  on Mr Cs credit file. But he said he felt its offer of £150  and 
the removal of the hard searches was fair and reasonable.  Mr C didnt agree so the case 
was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I will explain  why.
Having reviewed Mr Cs credit  report Im satisfied that there  are entries  listed by RBS dated           
7 February 2019,  6 February 2019  and 3 November 2018. Mr C doesnt dispute opening a 
current account with RBS on 7 February 2019.  But he says as he hadnt applied for a credit 
facility so a hard search shouldnt have been completed.  
While I appreciate Mr Cs concerns, RBS has provided the terms and conditions  of the 
account and Im satisfied  it explains credit  searches  will be carried out and how it will share 
the information. So with this is mind,  I dont think RBS has acted unfairly  completing  these 
searches and sharing the information with credit reference agencies.
Im aware that Mr C opened other  accounts  with members of the RBS group on 
7 February 2019.  And I can see from his credit  report that some of these searches have also 
been recorded on his credit file. But this doesnt  explain the searches that were completed 
on       6 February  2019 and 3 November  2018.RBS  has said that as the searches have 
been removed  from Mr Cs credit  file it is unable to provide  any further information about 
them.
Ref: DRN70733392I agree  that it is disappointing that RBS cant provide  any further information in regards to 
these entries. And I can appreciate Mr Cs concerns about how these searches appeared on 
his credit report. But I have also considered the impact this has had on Mr C. He first raised 
the complaint  with RBS on 31 March 2019. And the first entry appeared on his credit file on 
31 November 2018. Mr C has said this caused him a significant amount of trouble and upset 
because it affected  his credit file and he was unsure how RBS got his details.  
Having considered the above, I think it is reasonable to conclude  that Mr C would have 
reported the issue sooner if it had impacted his credit file to an extent  which prevented him 
getting credit  during  the period of 3 November 2018  and 31 March 2019. While  I dont  
dispute that these searches would have impacted  Mr Cs credit  file, he hasnt provided any 
evidence to show it actually did. 
RBS has offered Mr C £150 for the trouble  and upset  it has caused and I am satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  I say this because, I appreciate  that Mr C would 
have been concerned about the inaccurate information being  recorded on his credit file. But 
after Mr C had raised the issue with RBS it took roughly a month for the searches to be 
removed. And Mr C has been unable to demonstrate  he was financially affected  due to the 
inaccurate information during this period of time. So with this in mind  I dont  think  the degree 
of inconvenience  he suffered is enough to warrant further compensation. So I wont  be 
asking RBS to do anything further.
my final decision
My Final  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7073339