K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Aviva Insurance  Limiteds proposed settlement of a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy after their property  showed evidence of cracking  
and distortion.
background
Mr and Mrs M owned a house which was built into a very steep slope. The area in which  
they lived suffered  from a particularly bad season of storms. They later noted cracks had 
appeared in their property. They made  a claim under their policy.
Aviva appointed an engineer. The engineer  noted that the property, along  with the adjoining 
semi-detached property,  was showing cracks  and minor distortion. After  carrying  out 
investigations, the engineer concluded that the storm rainfall had caused the drainage 
behind the house to become overwhelmed and it was the freely  escaping water into the 
ground around the propertys foundations which  was causing the damage. The engineer 
therefore proposed  that the drainage system be repaired, followed by repairs to the property 
itself.
Aviva obtained costings for the work which would be required. This came to £114,274. 
Mr and Mrs M indicated  that they didnt  want Avivas contractors  to do the work. Aviva  
therefore offered  this sum to Mr and Mrs M as a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the cash settlement. Mr and Mrs M complained to us. They 
provided a report which  they had commissioned from their own engineer which  concluded 
the damage was likely being caused by landslide which  had led to the failure of a retaining  
wall at the rear of the property.
Aviva reviewed the report. It noted that the report acknowledged that slope instability might 
not be the principal  cause  of the damage. It also noted that, according to the report, the 
retaining wall was of an inadequate design; Aviva pointed out that if this were the case  and it 
needed re-building, the policy wouldnt provide cover for this. Aviva  remained confident  that 
the repair of the drains would address the cause  of the problem but said that, if Mr and 
Mrs M needed  further reassurance, then following  the repair a six-month  period  of level 
monitoring could be undertaken with the results made available  to all parties.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva  had acted  fairly.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  findings. They continued  to dispute that the 
drains were  the cause  of the damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Avivas engineer noted that the property had stood for 11 years without any apparent  
problem but that, after the area had been  affected  by particularly bad storms, constant water 
flows across the site and cracking to the property had become evident.  The engineer 
Ref: DRN72874002considered the damage to be property to be aesthetic, meaning  it was of little structural 
significance. He pointed  to evidence that the drainage system to the rear of the property had 
become damaged and overwhelmed. He therefore  proposed that the drainage  system be 
repaired. I consider  the engineers report to be plausible.
Mr and Mrs M have  provided their own engineers report. This concludes  that repairing the 
drainage is unlikely to address the problem. It concludes that instead the problem is the 
failure of the retaining wall which, according to the report, can be demonstrated by simple 
calculation to be inadequate from the outset,  for its intended purpose. The report says that 
slope stability may or may not have played a part in the failure of the retaining wall and that 
only further monitoring could determine  this.
I dont find Mr and Mrs Ms engineers report to be persuasive in showing that Aviva has 
acted unfairly. It has offered to carry out further monitoring once the drains  (which  it believes 
to be the cause of the problem)  have  been  repaired.  And if it were  the case  that the retaining  
wall was the cause  of the problem, the engineer has confirmed it was defective  in its design. 
This means  that Aviva  wouldnt be liable for its repair in any case.
Mr and Mrs M have  also drawn attention to water ingress to their property through  the roof. 
They say their engineer  says this is in keeping with the movement of the house.  Avivas 
engineer, however, says there  is no evidence  of recent structural  movement. He considers  
that the water ingress is due to the gradual  effects  of wind and rain, and is really  a 
maintenance issue. He has provided  a plausible explanation for why this is occurring, 
including by highlighting an issue with the flashing. I dont consider that Mr and Mrs M have 
shown that the water  ingress is due to the earlier storms, or any other  insured peril.  
Aviva feels  confident that the drain  repair will prevent further damage occurring to the 
property. However, it cannot guarantee this. It has therefore offered to undertake a six-
month period  of level monitoring  after repairs have  been carried out, to determine whether 
further work  is necessary.
I consider that Aviva  has acted fairly in this case. It is now up to Mr and Mrs M to arrange for 
the repair work to be carried out.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287400