K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 29 July 2020.  The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons I was minded to uphold it were  set out in that 
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider. Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or 
arguments. Mr J queried why the compensation for distress and inconvenience in the 
provisional decision was lower than the amount that had been  proposed  by the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
If both parties accept an investigators assessment  then a firm is effectively agreeing to 
settle the complaint on that basis. However if either party doesnt  accept  the assessment 
then neither party is bound by it and it is referred to me to consider afresh. 
Alexander David didnt  accept, or respond, to the investigator and therefore it was passed to 
me to consider. Im bound  to consider  what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and Ive taken into account compensation that has been awarded  in 
decisions in similar circumstances. An ombudsmans final decision is legally binding on a 
firm if it is accepted by the complainant within the relevant time limit.
my final decision  
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr J on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J as close as possible to
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr J
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Js
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr J fairly  Alexander David should:
Ref: DRN73168162Compare the performance of Mr Js investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Js pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  
of charges and any available  tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Js pension plan,
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think M J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter  has caused 
him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from  
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much it has taken off. It should  also give Mr J a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN73168163investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr Js 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the debentures its value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr J provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the debentures in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within  
the plan on t date had they grown  in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 
to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each month is 
that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
Ref: DRN73168164Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution 
out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr J hasnt got the opportunity  to 
close the SIPP or switch  to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if 
Alexander David Securities Ltd cant buy the investment  and it remains illiquid, it should  pay 
Mr J an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr J has said he was a low risk investor;  his pensions were  his only savings  and he was 
unemployed at the time of the transfer. So I think his circumstances  were  consistent with 
someone who only had limited capacity for risk. In the circumstances, I dont think Mr J 
would have transferred  with suitable  advice.
But given I dont know exactly  how he would have  invested if he had been suitably advised 
 even if he had remained with his original scheme, I think the index I have outlined above  
is an appropriate benchmark as I think its a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that 
Mr J was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr Js risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was only 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr J into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr J would have  invested 50% in some kind of index  tracker investment.  
Rather I consider  this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort of 
return Mr J could have obtained  from investments suited to his objective  and risk 
attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN73168165Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr J has complained about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an Appointed 
Representative of Alexander David Securities  Limited)  to transfer  his pension to a self-invested  
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
Mr J, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in November  2018.   I understand 
Alexander David didnt provide any material  response to the complaint.  The representative  
subsequently referred it to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint. She asked Alexander David  for its files and to 
provide any other  evidence  it wanted us to take into account.  Despite reminders,  she received no 
material evidence or arguments. The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence 
that was available.
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. She said Mr J 
had been 'cold called' by representatives of St Pauls Marketing  and offered a
pension review,  which  he accepted.  Mr J had said they spoke  to him on the phone
and sent him papers to sign. Mr J had a pension  plan.  Its value was £26,399 on 25 November 2015.  It 
was invested in a fund that was Mixed 40-85% shares. 
Mr J had said that he was told the new investment was likely to give him a return of at least  8.4% per 
year, though there would be a minimum  guaranteed return  of at least  6% per year.
Mr J had received  a letter  from another firm that the investigator understood was involved in the 
administration process of the transfer on 8 January 2016. This letter  said:
"We have information from St Pauls Marketing  in relation to an investment you wish to make. We 
understand you wish to transfer an existing  pension(s)  to fund this investment and that in order to do 
this you have  chosen to apply for the [name of SIPP].
It further went on to say You must have received the Just Cash  Flow Information  memorandum from 
St Pauls  Marketing. If this is not the case, please contact St Pauls on the number  below. It also said 
that Mr J should call St Pauls Marketing  for any investment related  queries. The same letter  contained  
an application form for the SIPP.
Mr Js personal pension plan was transferred to the SIPP in January 2016.  A stockbroker
account was opened  and £24,538 was transferred to it for investment.
The investigator thought that Mr Js testimony was consistent with the limited documentation that was 
available. The original  pension provider had confirmed it had received a Letter  of Authority from St 
Pauls Marketing to obtain information about the plan.  The provider  had written to St Pauls  Marketing 
on 5 February  2016 to confirm the transfer.  And the new SIPP provider  had confirmed the introducing 
firm for the SIPP was St Pauls Marketing. 
 
The investigator thought that St Pauls Marketing  had made a personal recommendation to Mr J. She 
noted Mr J had said St Pauls Marketing  had reviewed  his existing pension  plans with the prospective 
investment and said the proposed  investment was performing much better. Given that the 
documentary evidence showed St Pauls had requested information about  his personal pension  from 
the provider a few months earlier, she thought  Mr Js version of events rung true. 
The investigators  view was that in reviewing the returns of the two schemes St Pauls was effectively  
making a recommendation,  because  such a comparison was always likely to show that one 
Ref: DRN73168166investment was 'better' than the other, with the inference being that Mr J should  switch. She thought it 
was difficult to imagine  a discussion about the two competing  investments without  St Pauls Marketing  
recommending that the 'better' performing one be taken.
She said according to Mr J this is what had happened. And the comparison of the two prospective 
investments was specific to Mr J, because it involved looking at the
performance of his plans in relation to his objectives. The investigator said she wasnt convinced that 
Mr J would have had the knowledge or expertise to arrange the pension transfer and then proceed to 
invest in these  investments  himself. So she considered whether that recommendation was suitable for 
Mr J given his circumstances. 
The investigator said Mr J was a relatively  inexperienced  investor. He'd confirmed that the personal 
pension was his entire pension provision.  He held no other investments and had only had cash 
savings accounts  in the past. Hed also said that he had been  unemployed since 2006 and his only 
income was the disability living allowance. The household depended on his partners  income.
Mr Js original pension was held by a strong company within the financial services industry   with an 
established track record. The Just Loans investment was all issued by a single company  which she 
understood was concerned  entirely with peer to peer lending. According to Companies House 
website, the firm behind it was first incorporated on 19 December 2014.  So when St Pauls Marketing 
approached Mr J it had only been in existence for about eighteen months.  It was a brand new 
company in a fledgling industry, and Mr J's entire retirement  provision  was invested in it. This had the 
effect of magnifying Mr Js risk far beyond what his circumstances suggest.
The investigator said that based on her conversation  with Mr J, she thought  he would have been 
willing to take an extremely cautious investment  risk, given his circumstances and proximity to when it 
would have been possible for him to access these funds. She thought  the Just Loans investments 
were speculative  and unsuitable and therefore the personal recommendation wasnt suitable for Mr J.
The investigator sent her assessment of the complaint  to Alexander David.  However it didnt provide a 
response. She subsequently wrote to both parties on 5 February 2020 explaining that the complaint  
would be passed  to an ombudsman for review  and to make a final decision.   No further  evidence or 
arguments were provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Js original complaint. It didnt  provide any evidence or 
arguments to the investigator or respond to the investigators assessment.  So theres
only very limited  evidence available  to establish  what  happened  at the time of the transfer
and investment.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Js recollections of
events. Alexander  David/St  Pauls hasnt disputed what Mr J said in his complaint  to it, or
what the investigator said in her assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Mr J has said about St Pauls role is consistent with
what other complainants  have described. So I think what he has said is plausible.  And taking
everything into account, I have found  it credible.
Ref: DRN73168167Mr J completed  a complaint  form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander  David. In it
he said: 
I received a cold call from St Pauls Marketing, they told me the government were considering peoples 
pensions to ensure they were receiving a good deal. They arranged for a courier  to come to my home  
address to collect my existing  pension  details. Following this all the advice I received was over the 
phone and I received nothing in writing. The adviser told me, by transferring my pension  into this 
investment I would receive a retum of 8.4% in comparison to the 4% I was receiving. I was told the 
original investment I would be investing  had fallen  through and the investment  now would  be Just 
Loans. The adviser did not provide me with details  of the new investment, was told there would be 
only one transferring in fee, I was not told there would  other fees. Risk was never  discussed and as a 
low risk, inexperienced investor, the advice to transfer my funds into such  a high risk investment, I 
believe to be wholly unsuitable. My personal  and financial situation reflect the unsuitability to invest in 
such funds; at the time I was not working  due to ill health, I had no cash savings, no other assets and 
no other pension provisions  for retirement. I did tell the adviser I did not want  to invest into a high risk 
investment, he told me I would not lose anything as I was guaranteed  to receive my original 
investment in the worse case scenario. I trusted the advisers recommendation,  as he was the 
professional. 
Im satisfied that St Pauls initiated  the investment  in the debenture/shares.  It was aware of where  the 
investments that were going to be made through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr J has said St Pauls  
advised him to use his pension to invest in the debentures, the investigator said she thought  it likely  
St Pauls  had recommended the investment and it wasnt suitable for him. And the firm hasnt disputed  
this. In all the circumstances  and on the balance  of the evidence available, I think  its more  likely than 
not that advice was given.
St Pauls  Marketing was the promoter  for the debenture,  but Im satisfied, on the limited
evidence available, that it went  beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the
investment (as well as recommending  it). Mr J has described its involvement and the documentation  
that is available is consistent with what he has said.
The debentures  were  a non-readily  realisable security. The promotional material I have
seen referred  to debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market for them  even
after listing, and said that investors might need to hold them  to redemption. COBS 10
required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Js knowledge and experience  in the
investment field relevant  to the specific type of product  or service offered or demanded  so as
to enable the firm to assess  whether the service or product  envisaged is appropriate.
Mr J had no significant  investment knowledge  and no experience of making investments  of
this nature. The debentures were higher risk and speculative and clearly not appropriate for Mr J 
given his background, knowledge and circumstances
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection. Its Principles for Business  are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations  on the firms  it authorises.  These include Principle
6, that it must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly, and
Principle 9, that it must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled  to rely upon its judgment.
In my view switching  a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number  of different
factors to weigh up and consider. Mr J was an ordinary retail investor. He doesnt appear to
have had any particular experience or knowledge of this type of transaction  or the complex
and higher risk investments  he was invested into. I think Mr J was entitled to rely on the firm
providing advice that was suitable to his circumstances. It was acting in its professional
capacity and was obliged to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and to
act in Mr J interests.
Ref: DRN73168168Mr J has said he was a low risk investor and the pensions  represented his only savings. Hed got very 
limited capacity for loss. I think it was clear that the debentures in a single  company werent suitable 
or appropriate for Mr J and this should have been clear to St Pauls. So I dont think St Pauls  acted in 
Mr Js interests.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised  Mr J to transfer
and invest in these investments or if it had told him the debentures werent appropriate or suitable for 
him he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.  Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls 
failures caused  Mr J to transfer  and invest  in a product that he would otherwise  not have  invested 
into. And Im satisfied its failures  caused  the losses that Mr J has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. I intend to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr J on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J as close as possible to
the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable  advice. I think Mr J
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done,
but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mr Js
circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr J fairly Alexander David  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Js investment  with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a loss, 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Mr Js pension plan to increase its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities  Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Js pension plan,
it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable  income. Therefore  the compensation  should  be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using  Mr Js actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think  M J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal  the current  basic  rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr J £250 for the distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from  that interest, it 
Ref: DRN73168169should tell Mr J how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax deduction  certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr Js 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the debentures its value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr J provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the debentures in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David 
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on t date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Those rates should be applied  to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.
Ref: DRN731681610Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income  or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted  from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr J hasnt got the opportunity  to close the SIPP or 
switch to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities  Ltd 
cant buy the investment and it remains  illiquid, it should pay Mr J an amount equal to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr J has said he was a low risk investor; his pensions  were  his only savings and he was 
unemployed at the time of the transfer.  So I think his circumstances were  consistent  with someone 
who only had limited  capacity  for risk. In the circumstances, I dont  think Mr J would have 
transferred with suitable  advice.
But given I dont know exactly how he would have invested if he had been suitably advised  even if 
he had remained  with his original scheme, I think the index I have outlined  above is an appropriate  
benchmark as I think its a reasonable proxy  for the lower level of risk that Mr J was willing  and able 
to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices  with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
I consider that Mr Js risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to 
take a small  level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably  put Mr J into that position. It does not mean that Mr J would have 
invested 50% in some  kind of index  tracker investment.   Rather  I consider this is a 
reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr J could have obtained 
from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316816