K820x#14complaint
Mr I took out a car insurance policy with Sainsburys Bank Plc in 2017 which was 
automatically renewed in 2018.
background
Mr I took a car insurance policy  in September 2017,  and Sainsburys were the 
broker/intermediary. In September 2018  Mr I took out a new policy  with a different provider. 
But Sainsburys renewed his policy and took £581.62 from his credit  card account.
Mr I was unhappy that Sainsburys had renewed  his policy without  his consent. Hes also 
unhappy Sainsburys wont  refund the interest charges on his credit card account  he incurred 
as a result  of the renewal.
Our adjudicator found that Sainsburys had acted reasonably. He said automatic renewals 
are common  practice, and the terms of Mr Is policy gave  Sainsburys permission to renew 
the policy  Mr I needed to tell Sainsburys if he didnt want to renew.
He also said that Sainsburys sent Mr I a renewal quote, but he couldnt  be sure Mr I 
received this. He thought that Sainsburys had made  a genuine attempt to let Mr I know  
about his renewal, and they issued  a pro-rata  refund when Mr I told them he didnt want  the 
insurance. Once Mr I provided proof that he insured  his car elsewhere,  Sainsburys refunded  
the rest of the premium.  Because of this, the adjudicator didnt think Sainsburys needed to 
do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicator. He says he wasnt told at the outset that Sainsburys 
offered auto-renewal,  and he wouldnt have  taken out the policy  if he knew  this. He also feels 
that the original  paperwork  didnt highlight  this, and Sainsburys just renewed  without  his 
consent. He also thinks that, because Sainsburys cant prove they sent him a renewal 
notice, we shouldnt  take their word for it that they did. Because  of this he thinks  Sainsburys 
should cover  the interest he incurred on his credit  card and pay him compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the Welcome  Pack Sainsburys sent Mr I when he took out his policy  in September 
2017, which included  the Certificate  of Insurance. Mr I hasnt said he didnt receive this. 
Because it contained the Certificate  of Insurance, its reasonable to conclude that, if the 
Certificate wasnt received, Mr I wouldve chased Sainsburys for it. So Im satisfied Mr I 
received the Welcome Pack.
The covering  letter asked Mr I to please read all the information weve sent you. In the 
Policy Booklet, which formed part of the Welcome Pack, under the heading Automatic 
Renewal the policy says:
If we offer to renew your policy automatically, you give us permission to do so  If you dont 
wish us to do this, you can let us know before the renewal date  If you dont want  to renew 
your policy , or wish to opt out of the automatic renewal process, please let us know before 
your renewal date.
Ref: DRN72858162Based on this evidence,  I can see that Sainsburys provided Mr I with the information about  
auto-renewal and asked him to read it. They also told him that he needed to contact them  if 
he wanted to opt out of auto-renewal and/or if he didnt want to renew his policy. Ive seen 
nothing to show that Mr I contacted  Sainsburys  about this.
So I agree that Sainsburys  were  able to auto-renew Mr Is policy and I dont need  to listen  to 
the initial sales call to see if auto-renewal  was discussed  it was clearly covered in the 
paperwork Mr I was sent, and he had the option to opt out of auto-renewal.
Sainsburys say they sent Mr I an renewal quote on 24 August 2018, but Mr I says he didnt 
receive this. But I cant blame Sainsburys for any failure in the postal service  if it wasnt  
received. This wasnt Mr Is first motor insurance policy,  so he would know to expect a 
renewal notice. If this wasnt received, and if Mr I needed it to compare the renewal price 
with what he could  get elsewhere,  I wouldve  expected him to contact Sainsburys and ask 
for this to be resent.
But whether  Mr I received  the renewal quote or not, he was aware from the paperwork 
Sainsburys sent him in September 2017 that the policy automatically renewed,  and that he 
needed to tell them if he didnt want to renew the policy. 
But Mr I didnt tell Sainsburys until 2 October 2018,  20 days after his policy was auto-
renewed. At this point  Sainsburys  gave Mr I a pro-rata refund because  theyd insured him 
since the renewal  date. 
Mr I was also asked to give Sainsburys a copy of his current  Certificate of Insurance,  so 
they could look to refund the rest of his premium. But he didnt do this. He provided the new 
Certificate as part of the evidence he gave the adjudicator, and the adjudicator passed this 
on to Sainsburys.  Once they had evidence that Mr I was already insured for the 20 days  
theyd provided  cover,  Sainsburys  then refunded the remainder of the premium. 
Im satisfied that Sainsburys acted reasonably in both renewing Mr Is insurance policy,  and 
in refunding the premium as they did. So I cant hold them  responsible for any interest Mr I 
may have  been  charged on his credit card account,  and I wont  be asking them to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7285816