K822xcomplaint
D, a limited company,  complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mishandled its application for a bank 
guarantee.
The complaint is brought  by Ds director, Mr S.
background 
D was entering into a business deal with a third party. One of the third partys  requirements 
for the deal was a bank guarantee in favour of the third party  to cover trade debt to the value 
of £75,000 (in the event that D ceased trading). Mr S approached Lloyds with a request to 
provide this, alongside some other  financial requirements. 
Mr S first met with his relationship manager  (RM) at his home on 8 August 2018. Over the 
months that followed,  Mr S attended  to various  other requirements of the deal  including 
training run by the third party and purchasing equipment.  At the same  time, he continued to 
chase progress of the guarantee with Lloyds.
In November, it came to light that Mr S and his RM had been speaking  at cross purposes. 
Mr S said hed wanted the guarantee to be secured against his residential property  but 
Lloyds had expected cash cover to be provided.  So arrangements  were made to value 
Mr Ss property,  and a draft guarantee was issued  on that basis.
Following further review, Lloyds told Mr S on 30 November 2018 that it wouldnt accept his 
property as security for the guarantee. This was due to its loan-to-value requirements, which 
werent met as a result  of the level of borrowing already secured against the property. And 
with no guarantee,  the deal couldnt proceed.  
Mr S complained. He said hed clearly explained  his situation and Ds requirements to Lloyds 
at the outset and on a number of occasions  since. This included, he said,  the level of 
borrowing already  secured  against  his property. He thought Lloyds shouldve informed him 
much earlier of the terms on which it would be able to help. Had it done so, he couldve 
avoided costs of £14,500 in progressing  the deal in the meantime.
Lloyds said that cash cover was typically expected in such deals. It partnered  with the third 
party involved and its RM was experienced in this type of deal  so it didnt think hed have 
misunderstood the requirements. And it couldnt  see that Mr S had specified hed wanted to 
use his property as security at an earlier juncture. It also said that the RM hadnt  been aware  
of a second charge against  Mr Ss property  which was ultimately the reason why it couldnt 
be used as security. 
While Lloyds didnt think it had done  anything wrong, as a gesture  of goodwill it refunded the 
valuation fee of £645 and offered  to reimburse call costs and bank charges totalling £116.30. 
Mr S remained unhappy,  and referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into things, but she didnt think  Lloyds needed to do anything 
more. She accepted thered been some misunderstanding about the security, but ultimately 
thought that the guarantee was subject to application and couldnt  see that the bank had 
given Mr S any indication  that it would be approved. So she didnt think it would be fair to 
hold it responsible for the costs Mr S incurred before the guarantee was in place.
As Mr S didnt accept  our investigators  view,  the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN72943112my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month,  setting out why I thought  Ds complaint should  be 
upheld. I said:
There was evidently  some confusion as to what security would be provided for the 
guarantee. Mr S says that he always intended  this to be a charge secured against  his 
residential property,  and that this was communicated to Lloyds from the very first 
meeting about  the matter on 8 August. But it appears Lloyds was working on the 
assumption that it would  be cash cover, until early November  when  things were  
already at an advanced stage.
Theres little in the way of documentary evidence to confirm what was discussed 
between Mr S and his RM, or to show the basis of the instructions. But if security  was 
discussed at the initial  meeting or shortly thereafter,  then I see no reason why Mr S 
wouldnt have informed  Lloyds that he intended to use his property  as that was 
evidently his intention all along. And if it wasnt discussed, then it seems to me that it 
ought to have been  in assessing how it could  help and what information  would be 
needed, this would be important for Lloyds to have ascertained  early  on.
Lloyds says its unlikely  that it wouldve misunderstood these requirements. But it 
seems even less likely to me that Mr S wouldve misrepresented what  he was looking 
for  when hes been so consistent throughout the process. And while  I note Lloyds 
might ordinarily expect cash cover, evidently it is also willing  to accept a charge over a 
property as security  as when Mr Ss preferred plan was established, Lloyds was 
happy to consider it. It even issued a draft guarantee  on that basis.
If there was any uncertainty or confusion over what Mr S wanted  and/or what Lloyds 
needed, there was also ample time and opportunity  for the bank to clarify things. Mr S 
highlighted the significance of the guarantee as early as 17 August 2018 in his email to 
the RM:
the critical aspect  is having  the Bank guarantee - can you please 
forward details of what you need and the process  as the Bank 
guarantee is vital and I want  to understand what is fully required here.
It doesnt seem that Mr S was given much  by way of response to that enquiry, despite 
several further emails  to chase the RM and other staff at Lloyds in a bid to move  things 
forward over the weeks and months  that followed.
So I think Lloyds made an error  here. It was progressing the guarantee application  on 
the basis that cash cover would be provided,  when that hadnt been  requested  or 
agreed by Mr S. I cant  see that Mr S gave it any such instruction, or that it made clear 
to Mr S the terms on which it was willing to proceed. 
In turn, had Lloyds  not made an error  I think the issues  with Mr Ss property as security 
wouldve been identified  sooner. In the event, it was established in early  November 
that the property  would be the security and within  a couple of weeks the issue with the 
level of equity was identified. Had this happened at the outset  as I think  it shouldve 
done  it wouldve been clear by the end of August at the latest that Mr S wasnt going 
to be able to satisfy the banks requirements  for Ds application to succeed. And had 
Ref: DRN72943113that happened, I dont  think  Mr S wouldve committed to the training course and 
incurred other expenses associated with the deal. 
Ive also thought about whether it was reasonable for Mr S to proceed with other 
aspects of the deal  incurring these additional costs   when  the guarantee wasnt  in 
place. He knew that he needed the guarantee for the deal to proceed  so he chose to 
proceed in the knowledge  that the bank hadnt confirmed it was willing to provide one. 
But I think it was reasonable for Mr S to go ahead.  Ill explain why in a little more  detail.
Firstly, the nature of the deal meant that a number of pieces needed to fall into place 
within a tight timeframe. Alongside the guarantee, there were  a number of 
requirements that D needed to provide. So I wouldnt have expected  Mr S to wait until 
the guarantee was in place before attending to some of the other aspects of the deal. 
Mr S made Lloyds aware  of the other  requirements, though I expect it already had 
some knowledge  of what would be needed given it has an established partnership with 
the third party  in arranging the kinds of deals Mr S was trying to set up. I can also see 
that the third party reiterated the need  for everything to come  together in time for 
1 December in an email of 19 September:
I can confirm that we are ready  to start the first handovers  from 
the 1st of December, as long as everything  is setup (sic) and ready 
i.e. Bank  Guarantee,  Suppliers, Training etc.
Further, Lloyds was initially  reluctant to issue the guarantee until Mr S had completed 
the training. The RM emailed Mr S on 22 October  to say that the guarantee had been 
agreed by the underwriters subject to confirmation  that training is complete. A couple  
of days later he reiterated that my underwriters  has (sic) made a point not to issue 
until training is completed. 
It seems, therefore, that Mr S was always going  to have to complete the training in 
order to get the guarantee he needed.
I also note that Mr S was also given  some reassurance that the guarantee was in hand 
in response to escalated concerns about  its progress.  On 19 September, the RM 
advised the application was with the underwriters  and he expected  them to be back  in 
touch in the next couple of days. When chased  the following month, the RM assured 
Mr S that he would drive the paperwork over to you when everything is signed off  
making it sound like something  of a formality. Similarly,  on 19 October he was expecting 
sign off today  which was confirmed  on 22 October, when he told Mr S that the 
application  (was)  signed  and agreed by the underwriters (subject to the training 
requirement above).  Mr S couldnt  have chased  things up much more  than he did  
whatever he said, the bank was always going to reassure him that things were in hand.
As I think  it was reasonable for Mr S to have proceeded, Ive gone on to consider how 
D has lost out a result of what Lloyds did wrong.
In this respect, Mr S has advised that the £10,000 bond  he placed with the third party  
has been refunded.  The remaining expenses total £4,571.05. 
A large  proportion of this amount is made  up of the training with the third party 
(£2,400) and travel expenses for that training (£1,068.30 for fuel, plus a £42.40  train 
ticket). For the reasons set out above  I think it was reasonable for Mr S to proceed with 
Ref: DRN72943114this in the circumstances. Ive seen the invoice for the training and reviewed a 
breakdown of the travel expenses, supported  by receipts and credit  card statements. 
As hes not been  able to realise  the benefit  of that training, I think it would be fair for 
Lloyds to reimburse these  costs.  
D also instructed a solicitor. The invoice doesnt break down the work  charged for in 
great detail.  It strikes me that D was always going to need some  level of legal advice  
or input  at a very early  stage. But I can see that some work also went into reviewing  
the guarantee and corresponding with the bank in the later stages, when the deal 
collapsed. On that basis, I think it would be fair for Lloyds to reimburse  D half of these 
costs  which works out at £165.
Mr S says D also paid for uniform  with the third partys branding that is of no use now. 
Im not convinced this was something that needed  to be purchased at such an early  
juncture. So Im not intending to direct  Lloyds to reimburse D for that.
Mr S has also claimed a certain  amount for lunches and refreshments  but I think its 
fair to say that whether  he was training or not, thats  something hed have needed to 
pay out for. So Im not intending  to direct Lloyds to reimburse D for that.
Lloyds has already offered to reimburse  D for bank  charges of £68.60 and the cost of 
itemised calls totalling  £48. So I think it should  honour this. 
Lloyds has already refunded a valuation fee, which seems fair given what  Ive said 
above. I understand it processed that refund twice. So I think it would also be fair to 
deduct that second amount (of £645) from the compensation it now pays  D. So that 
means a total amount of £3,147.30 would be due. 
I think it would also be fair for Lloyds  to compensate D for the inconvenience caused. 
As Ive set out above, I think this whole  situation could  and should  have been 
avoided. Lloyds ought to have clarified  and confirmed the basis  on which the 
guarantee would be provided  within the early  exchanges. If it had done so, it wouldve  
come to light much sooner that the deal couldnt  proceed.  D  through Mr S  was put 
to significant inconvenience in pursuing  the deal.  And independent to that, there  were  
delays and periods of inactivity that meant it had to chase the bank up on several 
occasions. D has also been deprived of the benefits of the funds in question   so it 
should be compensated for this too. Taking  all this into account, I think  it would be fair 
for Lloyds  to pay D compensation of £500.
Mr S accepted the majority of what Id said, but said that hed had to buy the uniform  as it 
was a requirement ahead of the training course.  He provided copy  correspondence  from the 
third party provider about that to support his position. So he thought those  costs  (£270.48) 
ought also to be included within the settlement.
Lloyds confirmed acceptance of my provisional decision, on the basis that D hadnt ended up 
pursuing this deal through another bank. I confirmed  this to be the case and said that in light 
of Mr Ss further submission, I was also minded to include  the uniform costs within the 
settlement. It confirmed its willingness to pay that additional amount too. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72943115Ive not been provided with any additional  comments or evidence that lead me to reach  a 
different conclusion on what happened. So I still think Lloyds made errors as set out in my 
provisional decision, and that it was reasonable for Mr S to have proceeded with the deal as 
far as he did.
The only additional information I was sent related  to the purchase  of the uniforms. Mr S has 
evidenced that these needed to be bought ahead of the training. So following the rationale of 
my provisional decision, I think it would  be fair for Lloyds to reimburse D for this cost too. 
Lloyds has already agreed  to pay that amount, in addition to the £3,147.30 as proposed  in 
my provisional decision. That means  Lloyds will need to pay D a total of £3,417.78 by way of 
reimbursement for costs and £500  compensation for the inconvenience caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay D £3,417.78  in reimbursement 
of costs and £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294311