K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax  increased  their 
contractual monthly payments  and failed to change their monthly payment due date. Mr and 
Mrs T want the mortgage payments to be reduced from £476.16 to the original £421.64.
background
Mr and Mrs T have  a Halifax  mortgage. On 19 November 2018 Mr T called Halifax  to change  
their direct debit (DD) from 23rd to 28th of each month. Halifax said it wasnt possible to 
change the date of the DD for November  at short notice but that it could be done for 
December. Halifax said that it would call on the following Saturday 24 November to confirm 
what the monthly payment would be. Halifax didnt call then but made several  calls at the 
end of November  but wasnt able to contact Mr T so the DD wasnt changed.  
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs Ts payments increased when one of their fixed  rate mortgage  
product deals came to an end. Our adjudicator  didnt  believe that Halifax  was at fault for 
failing to amend  the DD or for Mr and Mrs T being  unaware of the interest rate increase. Mr 
and Mrs T disagreed and asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have  a mortgage with Halifax. Ive seen  a mortgage offer dated 15 February  
2018 which says that Mr and Mrs Ts monthly  payments will be £421. 64 until 31 August 
2018 and then there would be an increase  after that. The reason for the increase is that part 
of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage was on a fixed rate until 31 August 2018 when that fixed  rate 
ended and a higher  rate called the Standard Variable Rate (SVR) then applied to that part 
of the mortgage.  As the interest rate went up, Mr and Mrs T had to make higher payments.
I dont consider that this is Halifaxs fault as that is what Mr and Mrs T agreed to and would 
have known about in February 2018  as its referred  to in the mortgage offer. Halifax  
increased the interest rate only a few months later but Mr and Mrs T should have known that 
this was happening as it was in the mortgage offer that they agreed to. These  fixed rate 
products only last for a while and its up to the customer to request a new fixed rate product  
if they wish to have  an interest rate lower  than the SVR.
One way for Mr and Mrs T to reduce the mortgage  is to try and get a further fixed  rate 
mortgage with Halifax. I see that Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T the number of its Product 
Transfer team in its letter of 30 January 2019 and they may wish to contact  that team to see 
if they can get a new mortgage product and a reduction in the mortgage payments. But until 
that happens I cant see that Halifax  is doing anything wrong in charging what  it charges 
presently so I cant fairly require Halifax to reduce the monthly  payments.  
The other issue is that Halifax didnt change the date for the collection of the direct debit. Mr 
T seems  to have requested this on 19 November and he was told that it could be changed  in 
December. All that was needed was confirmation  of the monthly  figure so that the DD could 
be amended and Halifax was to call Mr T back on the following Saturday. Halifax  didnt call 
Ref: DRN70531682on Saturday but says it tried to contact Mr T three times in the following week  but didnt get 
through and then nothing  happened.  
Although Halifax  missed the Saturday  appointment it did then make efforts to contact Mr T in 
the following  week. It would appear  that this could have been  easily  sorted had Mr T then 
contacted Halifax  to say that he hadnt  heard from them and to get the date changed.  So, I 
cant fairly say that the failure  to change the date was Halifaxs fault.   I presume this still can 
be done if Mr and Mrs T contact Halifax to do so. I understand  that there may be problems 
with phone communication in the area where  Mr and Mrs T live. Could I suggest that if that is 
a problem that Mr and Mrs T put that in writing  to Halifax and make their request to change 
the DD date in writing? But, the above  reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7053168