K820x#14Complaint
Mrs A complains that One Call Insurance  Services  Limited sold her a motor  insurance policy  
that didnt include  full legal cover. She feels theyve misrepresented the policy  she bought, 
and only discovered  this following an accident.
Background
For the avoidance of doubt this decision only deals with Mrs As complaint about  being  sold 
a motor insurance policy without full legal  cover. Mrs A has raised  other issues which will be 
handled in a separate complaint.
Mrs A was involved  in an accident  in November  2017. Mrs A understood she had full legal 
cover so all her costs would be covered by her insurance, but she was told this wasnt 
correct.
As that wasnt Mrs As understanding  of the policy she bought,  she complained to One Call. 
They explained shed  bought a policy  with legal cover. Mrs A had a number of 
conversations with One Call about this, and feels their policy actually means  legal advice, 
not legal cover  where all costs would be covered, regardless of the outcome of any legal 
challenge. She also feels following her conversations  that its not clear on their website or in 
their policy documents  what is and isnt covered under the legal cover section of her policy.
One Call didnt agree  that theyd misled Mrs A. They said it was her responsibility  to review 
the renewal documents she would have been  sent in July 2017 to understand the cover  she 
was being offered. But at this time One Call also said they hadnt actually sent her these 
documents, and offered her £50 in compensation. Mrs A didnt accept this, and brought  her 
complaint to our service.
Our case handler considered the complaint, and didnt uphold  it. In summary he felt One Call 
had done enough to let Mrs A know this wasnt a full legal expenses policy.
Mrs A didnt agree with our case handler, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mrs As complaint which I know will come as a disappointment to her. Ill explain why.
Mrs As policy auto renewed each year. So this means that each year a brand new policy, 
with potentially different  terms, is taken  out.
When giving  their final answer on Mrs As complaint One Call said she needed to have 
looked at the renewal  documents   but they also at this point said they hadnt sent them  to 
her and offered  £50 compensation.
Later on when we were  looking into things they said the documents were issued on a web 
based platform, which Mrs A had gone  into. One Call argues this means  shed seen the 
renewal documents  relevant to the time of the accident.
Ref: DRN71352122Ive looked at the evidence One Call have given here, and it shows Mrs A accessing this 
online portal on 31 July 2017, when the policy was renewed. It also shows her accessing it 
on 7 November 2017, the date of the accident. So it seems likely to me Mrs A did have 
access to the correct documents to know what cover  she had.
But even if I accept she didnt have access to the July 2017 policy  documents, in the phone 
call when shes taking out the July 2017  policy shes asked if the terms are the same  as the 
previous year. This suggests to me she had access to the July 2016 policy documents.  So to 
be sure Ive looked at both 2016 and 2017 policy documents, and what  this told Mrs A.
The information in these documents doesnt say Mrs A has full legal expenses cover. And 
the sections that talk about the legal coverage included in the motor  insurance policy explain 
if a solicitor agrees  to take on the case theyll discuss appointment  terms. So I think  its 
clear enough  for Mrs A to have understood that she didnt have full legal cover.
Mrs A has also raised an issue about the web chat saying she had fully comprehensive legal 
cover. Ive looked  through this, and although  fully  comprehensive  is mentioned, this is in 
relation to the motor insurance policy shes taken  out. As the web chat continues,  Mrs A is 
directed to a web page for a full explanation of the legal cover she has with the policy.  This 
would take her to the policy document and, as Ive explained above,  Im satisfied  this is clear 
enough for Mrs A to know  she didnt have full legal  cover.
My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135212