K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited offered an unfair  settlement 
amount for a claim she made  on her home  insurance. Shes  also unhappy about how the 
claim was handled,  and with the service she received.
background
Ms M made  a claim on her home insurance  policy for a lost wedding band  and watch. Lloyds 
initially declined the claim on the basis the items  had been  lost in her home,  for which theres 
no cover.  However,  when  Ms M complained Lloyds accepted  the claim on the basis  Ms M 
had searched her home and she couldnt be sure where the items had been lost. Lloyds 
says it gave Ms M the benefit of the doubt the items had been lost away from the home, 
which the policy does  cover.  It appointed  a jewellery  specialist to validate the items.
Ms M says that she sent wedding photos  by recorded delivery, so the items could be valued. 
However, Lloyds says only one photo  was received. From this photo  the watch  was valued 
at £795, and the ring £551. However,  because the specialist  could  replace  the ring at a 
discounted price  for Lloyds, the cash settlement value was £468. It couldnt however, 
replace the watch   but it based  its valuation on one that was available for purchase.
Ms M was unhappy with Lloyds valuations. She told Lloyds she had the watch serviced and 
cleaned about  five years  ago and at that time the item was valued at £1,400. Lloyds asked 
Ms M to contact  the jeweller  to confirm the valuation, or to provide closer photos. 
Ms M complained she was being  accused  of insurance fraud, and she was unhappy she was 
being asked to provide further  substantiation  given the items were  gifts some considerable 
time ago. In response, Lloyds  explained  it wasnt accusing Ms M of fraud, but the policy 
terms require her to substantiate  her claim.  However, it did offer her £75 for the delays 
during the start of the claim.
Ms M remained  unhappy, so she referred a complaint  to this service,  setting  out the 
following points:
-Ms M is unhappy about  being accused of fraud, and with the service  she received 
from Lloyds.
-Ms M has provided  photos of the items,  but Lloyds  doesnt consider these clear 
enough and it doesnt have the technology  to enhance the pictures.
-The watch was purchased in 1975,  and a replacement gold strap a year later. Both 
items were gifts, so Ms M doesnt have receipts.  Lloyds  wont contact the jeweller  
where the items were purchased as it wouldnt be able to access  her records,  but 
equally, even  if records did still exist, she wouldnt be able to access  them either 
because she didnt  buy the items.
-Ms M also doesnt have a receipt  for her wedding ring. She got married in 1985 and 
her late-husband died two years ago.
-The jewellers from where the items  were purchased are still in business, but Lloyds  
refuses to take any details. The jewellers  would at least  be able to verify whether 
they sold this type of jewellery.
Ref: DRN74199232-Lloyds has provided poor communication; lost documentation including  irreplaceable  
wedding photographs;  and made  a derisory  offer of compensation. Ms M also has 
concerns regarding the expertise  and integrity of the assessors.
Ms Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded Lloyds  had 
treated Ms M fairly because  it had based  the valuations  on the photos and descriptions 
provided by Ms M. She also thought Lloyds £75 offer was fair for the delays during the 
claim; and she noted that Lloyds had asked Ms M for the recorded delivery reference 
number to track the missing photos, but this wasnt forthcoming. 
However, our investigator also noted Lloyds watch valuation was based  on an item that was 
no longer available for purchase  and she found  an identical watch that was available  for 
£2,500. As such, Lloyds agreed  to settle the watch for £2,500. Ms M accepted the watch 
settlement, but she remained  unhappy about  the other aspects of her complaint  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the age of the items involved,  its not surprising Ms M is having difficulty substantiating 
their values. But in the absence  of closer photos, receipts, or written valuations  Lloyds cant  
reasonably do anything more, in my view, than base  the replacements on the descriptions 
given by Ms M and the comparable items currently available for purchase. 
In terms of the watch, Lloyds jeweller couldnt replace this item. But it found  a watch  by the 
same brand, and the same specification, on another  retailers  website. Therefore, Lloyds 
offered to settle  the watch for this amount, i.e. £795.  Im satisfied its offer was fair, as the 
amount allowed Ms M to replace her watch with the nearest equivalent available. Ms M 
hadnt provided Lloyds with anything  to show a different  watch  was a more equivalent 
replacement, or with anything to show  her lost watch was worth more.
However, by the time the complaint was considered  by this service, the replacement watch  
was no longer available via the retailer that was previously selling it. So, Lloyds agreed  to 
increase its offer to £2,500, based on an identical watch our investigator had found on a 
different retailers website. Given the delay caused by this complaint has meant that the 
£795 watch is no longer available, and £2,500  is significantly  higher than £795  and the 
£1,400 valuation Ms M recalls, I consider Lloyds to have been very reasonable here.
Ms M disputes the ring settlement is fair. She says an Indian jewellery specialist was used to 
validate her ring, but her ring was thicker than that used  in Indian jewellery. However, the 
jeweller says the replacement  valuation  was based  on Ms Ms description.  Ive carefully 
considered the arguments presented, and Im not persuaded  Lloyds can reasonably do 
anything more. Ms M hasnt provided  anything that persuades me the replacement  ring 
specification was inaccurate.  
So, in conclusion, based on the information Ms M has provided to support her claim, Im 
satisfied Lloyds has offered her a fair settlement  for her watch  and ring, and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN74199233In respect of the lost wedding photos, I appreciate  such  items are irreplaceable. But Lloyds 
has asked for information to try and track these down, and it cant reasonably do anything  
more without the recorded delivery reference  number. Given Ms M hasnt provided the 
reference to Lloyds, I cant fairly uphold this part of her complaint.
Ms M has also raised  concerns about  the handling of her claim and the service she received. 
Whilst I dont intend  to comment on every point  shes raised, I assure Ms M that I have read 
and considered all her comments.  I acknowledge Ms Ms strength of feeling, but I havent 
seen or been  told anything  that leads me to conclude she has been treated unfairly by 
Lloyds. So, Im not persuaded it needs to increase its £75 offer.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms M. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7419923