K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) failed to set up 
an annuity in a timely manner. As a result of the later start date Mr S says there will be a 
period of ten days each year when, if he were  to die, his estate would lose a whole  years  
annuity income.
background
Mr S held a personal  pension with a provider I will call A. As part of that pension  Mr S 
benefitted from a guaranteed annuity  rate. Some years ago A refocussed  its business and 
decided to stop providing annuity contracts  for new customers. But it recognised  that it was 
still responsible  for providing Mr S with his guaranteed annuity when he chose to retire. So A 
agreed a deal with L&G that would see L&G provide the guaranteed annuity,  with the cost of 
the guarantee being covered by an additional  payment from A at the time the annuity was 
taken.
Mr S decided to take some of his pension benefits in 2018.  After receiving information from 
A about the value of his pension savings he completed the necessary forms to request L&G 
to put his pension into payment. L&G then requested  the relevant funds from A and, on the 
day they were received,  started Mr Ss annuity.  He received the first payment the following 
year as agreed.
L&G has confirmed that Mr S returned the necessary application  form on 18 October. But it 
didnt receive the transferred funds from A until nine days later on 27 October. The 
guaranteed annuity was required to have some  conditions. One of the conditions was that it 
needed to be paid annually in arrears.  And when Mr S died no payment  would  be due for the 
part of the year that he had been  alive  in simple terms he needed to be alive on 
27 October to receive his annuity payment for the preceding year.  So Mr S complained that 
the nine day delay meant that there was a short period each  year when his death would 
result in the loss of almost a years  annuity  income that would have been paid if the annuity 
had been set up immediately when he returned  his application.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  that L&G 
had been wrong  to not begin the annuity before  it had received the transfer of funds from A. 
But she thought  that the letters  L&G had sent to Mr S could have been clearer. So she 
asked L&G to pay Mr S £100  in respect  of the inconvenience this had caused him.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN77215572At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Mr S had an agreement with A for his pension savings. That agreement gave him the right to 
a guaranteed annuity when he chose to retire. And he was entitled to take that annuity at 
any time after reaching his 60th birthday in 2011.  But, as I said earlier  A decided to stop 
offering annuities itself so reached an agreement with L&G for it to take over its 
responsibilities in that regard. L&G would offer an annuity at the guaranteed  rate. And the 
annuity would be funded  partly by the transfer  of the consumers  pension  savings, and partly 
by A paying  an additional  top up contribution.
But I think it is important to note in respect of this complaint that Mr S didnt  have any prior 
agreement with L&G. L&Gs only responsibility  to him was to offer him an annuity as it would 
any other consumer that wished to transfer pension benefits  from an alternative provider  
the only difference is that Mr S was offered a much better annuity rate because of his 
relationship with A. So in terms of this complaint the only matter  that I need to decide is 
whether L&G acted in a timely manner when  setting up Mr Ss annuity.  I am aware that Mr S 
has made a separate complaint against  A. And I think  it is that complaint  that will need to 
resolve the matter  of whether A fairly carried out its responsibilities in terms of the annuity 
and the previous agreement it had with Mr S.
Mr S agreed to take an annuity from L&G on 18 October. That is the date that L&G used as 
the start point of its relationship with Mr S. But it doesnt seem that it would be fair of me to 
expect L&G to do anything further  in terms of starting the annuity until it received the funds 
that it would  need to pay for it. The transfer of Mr Ss share of the cost was received by L&G 
on 27 October. But L&G still needed to do some further work before the annuity could be put 
into payment. It needed to calculate how much extra A needed  to pay in respect  of the 
guaranteed annuity rate. It received these additional funds on 2 November. So I think  L&Gs  
decision to start the annuity on the date it received  Mr Ss contribution  to its cost was entirely 
fair.
I appreciate that Mr S feels that L&G and A should both share the responsibility for the date 
his annuity was started. But I think their responsibilities were very different.  L&G hadnt given 
Mr S any promises over the years  about  the annuity.  To a large extent he was an entirely 
new consumer whose  relationship started  when he purchased an annuity. And therefore 
logic would suggest  that annuity  needed  to be paid for before it could begin.  I havent seen 
anything that makes me think L&G delayed setting up Mr Ss annuity,  given  when it received 
payment for it.
I do appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mr S. And I understand that he will 
face a time each  year when if he were  to die his estate might  miss out on an annuity  
payment. But I would also note that Mr S was able to take his annuity for some considerable 
time beforehand  it isnt the case that he wanted his annuity  to start on the date he was first 
able to take it. So in some ways, the start date is a product of many  different factors  
including when Mr S first decided to take the annuity, the time it took A and L&G to provide 
him with quotations  for the benefits  he wanted  to take, the time it took Mr S to decide which 
option he wanted to implement, and the processing time for the annuity  to be set up and paid 
Ref: DRN77215573for. So I think there is a wide range of dates that might have been impacted in a similar way 
in the unfortunate event of Mr Ss death  shortly  before the annuity payment date.
L&G has accepted  that the information  it gave to Mr S about  how his annuity was set up was 
a little misleading. I dont  think  that, given what Ive said above,  it would be reasonable for 
the annuity to have  been set up on the earlier date when the application  was accepted.  But 
I note that L&G has said it intends  to update its systems to make this clearer in the future. So 
I think that the information L&G provided did unreasonably alter Mr Ss expectations and 
has, to some  degree, precipitated this complaint. So Id agree with our adjudicator  that it 
would be reasonable for L&G to pay Mr S £100 for the inconvenience hes been caused by 
the way that information was presented to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ss complaint and direct  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  to pay him £100 for the inconvenience its information  has caused 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7721557