K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained about Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance  Company Limiteds (LV) valuation of his 
car after he claimed on his motor  insurance  policy.
background
Mr D was involved in an accident which resulted  in his car being written-off (known  as a total 
loss). Admiral offered Mr D a settlement of £593  after deductions were made for the 
condition of the car, its salvage value and the policy excess.
LV said it had based its valuation on the available trade guides and made fair reductions 
based on an engineers report and the common insurance practices of making a reduction 
for Mr D choosing  to keep the car and his policy excess.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds complaint and thought LV had made  Mr D a fair offer.
Mr D disagreed, his car had been written off previously following  another  recent accident and 
it was valued at £3,000.  He had also retained  his car on that occasion  and had repairs 
carried out, so he thought  the offer was too low.
As Mr D didnt  agree this complaint  has now been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds motor  insurance  state that following his car being written 
off it will:
pay the market  value of your  car at the time of the damage. When  you accept this
payment, your car becomes  our property unless we  agree otherwise.
Market value is defined  in the terms and conditions as:
the cost of replacing your car with one of the same make,  model and
specification, taking into account  the age, mileage and condition of your
car. To determine the market value, we'll usually ask an engineer for
advice and refer to motor trade guides  and other relevant  sources. We'll
consider the amount you could reasonably have obtained for  your car if
you sold it immediately  before  the accident,  loss or theft and not the price
you paid for it.
Our service doesnt value  cars, but we look to see if an insurer  has made a fair and
reasonable offer. We do that by looking at relevant trade guides.  I find these persuasive as
theyre based on nationwide  research.
I can see that at the time of the loss LV were able to obtain valuations for Mr Ds car from 
two trade  guides.  CAP valued Mr Ds car at £2,615  and Glasses  gave a valuation  of £2,390. 
Ref: DRN77766402LV used an average of these two figures  (£2,502.50) as a starting point when  it valued  Mr D 
car as this value is based on Mr Ds car being  in good condition  with no deductions.
Our Investigator  also consulted the trade guides  and found LVs starting  point to be within 
the range  he obtained. 
While I appreciate Mr Ds car had only shortly before this claim been considered a total loss 
and was valued at a higher amount these figures change over time and the value  of Mr Ds 
car at the time of this loss is what needs  to be considered. As LVs approach is inline with 
that used by this service,  I think it reached  its starting point fairly.
LV then made  several  deductions from the valuation it obtained from the trade guides. We 
would consider deductions reasonable if they fairly reflect the value of the individual  car. I 
will go through each  deduction in turn.
reduction of £1000 for condition
LV has explained  that it had an engineer assess Mr Ds car. The engineer found that the 
cost of repairing  the pre-accident damage would be £3,000. The damage noted by the 
engineer includes:
stone chips to bonnet
nearside rear light cover broken
corrosion to offside  front wheel arch
scratches to bumper, wing
scratches/dent to nearside front wing
damage to nearside headlamp
compression damage
paint peeling to rear bumper
dent and corrosion  to offside rear wing
Mr D has explained that he has had repairs carried out to his car following the previous 
accident totalling £450 and that his own mechanic has confirmed there was nothing wrong 
with the car but a few scratches.
Our investigator invited  Mr D to provide a written report from his mechanic to confirm  his 
findings. Unfortunately this wasnt  provided so I dont have any persuasive evidence that 
Mr Ds car wasnt  in the condition LVs engineer  has described.
As LV has deducted just £1,000 for the condition of Mr Ds car when  pre accident repairs  
were estimated at three times this amount I think the deduction is reasonable.
20% reduction as Mr Ds car had previously been deemed a total loss.
At the time of the second accident  it is clear that Mr Ds car had previously been  damaged  
and deemed a total loss, even though he had chosen to retain the car this would have 
affected its resale value.  
Cars that have previously  been deemed a total loss often  put off potential buyers no matter  
how well repairs  have been  carried out and therefore the value  of the car is reduced.  LV 
made a deduction  of 20%, which I think is reasonable.
Ref: DRN77766403deduction of salvage value.
LV has deducted  £293 for the salvage  value  it would have achieved had it retained Mr Ds 
car following it being deemed  a total loss. When a car is deemed a total loss the insurer 
usually pays the customer the market value,  less any deductions  and retains the vehicle 
which it usually sells on to offset some of its costs.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy explain that following a claim and a total loss the 
car would become LVs property unless an agreement is made. As explained above the 
policy states:
When you accept  this payment, your car becomes our property unless we agree 
otherwise
It is common practice that when a customer chooses to keep their car following it becoming 
a total loss that the insurer would deduct  the amount it would have received for it when it 
took possession,  as it would have received this amount had the claim proceeded in line with 
the terms of the policy.
LV has shown us the salvage  value  it achieved for other cars similar  to Mr Ds and £293  is in 
line with these figures, so I think the deduction is fair.
excess deduction
An insurance excess is an agreed amount that a customer  will pay towards any claim. 
Introducing an excess to a policy reduces the risk taken on by the insurer and often results  in 
a lower premium for the customer.  Some excesses are compulsory and put in place by the 
insurer to limit the risk they are willing to accept.
Mr Ds policy  schedule clearly states  Mr D would  have to pay an excess of £350.  So I think 
LV acted fairly  in making this deduction.
After making all of the above deductions  LV offered Mr D £593 which  I think  is a fair offer for 
the above reasons.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776640