K82Ix#I5complaint
Mr M's complaint is about the handling  of a claim by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
("RSA") under the home emergency section of his home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in October 2019, part of which is copied below:
Mr M made a policy claim in November 2017.  His drains were blocked  and this was causing
sewage to back  up in the toilets  and sinks in the house and from two manholes in the 
garden.
When Mr M called  RSA he was initially told he had no cover, as it had not updated  his new
address. He was then told that there was no cover, as there was no internal damage.  Mr M
complained and a manager agreed  that it was covered and a contractor would attend.
RSA carried out some repairs but Mr M is unhappy  with the repairs  done. The contractor
cleared the blockage and said he thought  it had been caused by tree roots. He said they'd
be in touch in the next couple of days  about doing  a drain survey  and clearing  the roots.
Mr M says he was not contacted again  and so called to chase RSA on 19 October 2017
when he was told that the policy would  not cover the removal  of tree roots. RSA told him he
would need to claim under the buildings insurance section of his policy  instead.
The buildings insurer apparently told Mr M that the home emergency  policy should cover  the
work, as it was required to avoid  further damage to the property as otherwise the drains
would block again.
Eventually, RSA agreed that the policy does cover work required to remove  the tree roots,  to
ensure the problem didn't  happen again. RSA came back out on 20 October 2017 and
removed a quantity of tree roots (it says "a root cut was earned out on I00mm fw line").and
the drains were  running freely.
In January 2018, the drains blocked  again.  Another drain engineer  attended and unblocked
the drains. RSA says that this was found to be because a paper towel was blocking the
drains and so it says this is unrelated  to the tree roots.  Mr M says the engineer told him that
if the drains blocked again within the next two to four months, a survey  should be carried to
assess the work that had been  done  in October  2017.
On 6 April 2018,  the drains blocked again. Mr M says RSA again  told him he had no home
emergency cover and that this was a new incident and not related to the previous claims.
Mr M says he told the call-handler he would "ensure he will get dismissed over this matter".
Mr M was told that no one could attend  until 03:00  - 04:00 and offered alternative
accommodation. Mr M says he found  three local companies that could  attend  within  an hour
and eventually a manager agreed that he would get one of the companies Mr M had found to
come out. The engineers  attended about an hour later and unblocked  the drain. RSA said it
would call Mr M back once the work  was done,  to discuss the work previously done and why
the blockage had happened  again.
Mr M says he was not contacted and so called  RSA on 10 April 2018. His request to speak
to a manager was initially refused but he was later able to speak to a manager who was
helpful. Contrary to RSA's decision  in November, it now advised that root removal and lining
of drains is not covered under the home  emergency  part of the policy and so he would have
Ref: DRN79819672to make a claim under his buildings insurance.
RSA then apparently  told Mr M it was voiding the policy  later said it was cancelling it instead.
I can see that a premium refund of £25.10 was made.
Mr M is extremely unhappy  with this and with the service provided by RSA throughout. He
has made a number of submissions which I've summarised below:
 It is impossible that the blockage in January 2018 was due to a paper towel. He does
  not use paper towels and would certainly  not flush them down the toilet. The engineer
  told him it was toilet paper that was removed  but that this should  not have caused  the
  drains to block, unless there was another problem. He signed  the engineer's report  at
  the time and it made no mention of a paper towel. He has provided  an email from the
  engineer which says the system said paper towel but it meant toilet paper.
 RSA would not have  agreed to attend further occurrences of a blockage unless it agreed
  they were caused by the same underlying issue.
 RSA insisted  that he would have  to pay the compulsory excess  for escape to water
  damage if he claims under his buildings insurance cover and a claim could impact  on his
  premium in the future.
 As the issue  should  have been  rectified with due care and skill in November 2017 by
  RSA's subcontractor, he refused to put in a claim under these conditions.
 The engineer that attended in February 2018  told him the job had not been done
  properly by the previous engineer who had subsequently been  sacked  due to a history
  of bad workmanship.
 He transferred the policy  from his previous home  in 2017 before the claim but RSA didn't
  change the address on his policy and he had to rectify  this when he made the claim.
 When  he called  to make the claim, the call handler was rude and abusive when he
  asked to speak  to a manager after he was incorrectly told the claim wasn't covered.
 In January  2019,  he noticed the premiums had gone up but he had not received any
  renewal documents.  When he called  RSA about this he found out that the documents
  had been sent to his old address.  RSA apologised and offered £25 for the error but this
  didn't arrive and Mr M had to call again and when he did the address had still not been
  changed. Compensation was increased  to £50 but there was still a delay in receiving it.
 He had to call RSA and its agents  numerous times to ensure the problem was resolved
  as quickly as possible. He had no toilet facilities and raw sewage  was leaking in his
  garden each time.
 He was given the incorrect  information  about what the policy covers and what the
  timeframe would be to get an engineer to attend  his property.
 A number of his calls were  not returned  and a number of RSA representatives  were
  rude and unprofessional  towards him. He had to insist  on speaking  to managers to get
  his claim progressed and his requests to do so were sometimes  refused.
 It was insisting  on a cheque from him to pay the fee for a Subject Access  Request.
 At one point it insisted  he had to use the contractor's  complaints procedure.  This is not
  only incorrect as his contract is with RSA but also impossible, as they didn't  have  a
  complaints procedure.
 RSA cancelled  his policy  on the basis that he had been abusive  to RSA staff with no
  reference as to how he was treated by RSA staff, which was previously admitted. He
  was repeatedly talked  over him and raised their voices and its call-handlers terminated
  calls  without good reason.
 The work  done to facilitate a permanent repair of a problem  that would cause further
  damage to the property  if left unresolved (see policy wording), has not been carried  out
  to a satisfactory standard. No lining of the drains was carried  out following the removal
Ref: DRN79819673  of roots  (this is considered standard by any professional drainage  company). RSA's
  survey clearly  showed rough patches  where lining should have been put in place
  following  the root removal.
 RSA accepted this work to be carried out under the Home Emergency cover  and it is
  therefore RSA's responsibility to put things right, regardless of the status  of the policy.
  Its agreement  to carry out a permanent  repair  created a contract between them that
  means the work should  have been carried out with reasonable  skill and care,  which did
  not happen.
 RSA repeatedly told him that all his conversations with it were  recorded and those
  recordings would be made available to him if required. It then told the investigator that
  some  calls aren't  recorded.
 RSA abused  his personal data,  by conducting an internet  search on him and visiting  his
  social media profile. This has caused him great  distress and anxiety. RSA has
  apologised  and offered £50 in compensation. This is simply not good enough for such a
  severe breach  of the DPA 1998  and the abuse  of his data given to RSA in confidence.
 RSA has ignored evidence and made false claims in its response  to his complaint.
 He has moved to a different insurer but does not want the cancellation of his policy by
  RSA to be on his insurance  record.
He initially asked RSA to do the work required but then asked for a cash  settlement to allow
him to have  the work done himself.
RSA says that on each  occasion, its contractors have unblocked the drains and left them
'free flowing'. It therefore says that it has dealt with each claim properly and in accordance
with the policy terms; it is not required to carry out a permanent repair or upgrade or improve
a system. Lining the drains would be a full repair, which it is not covered under the policy.
RSA also says that managers  are not always available to speak to customers  and its call 
handlers are able to deal with complaints and they will not automatically  be referred to a
manager. RSA decided to cancel the policy but it agreed with Mr M that he could  cancel the
policy himself,  so that he did not have to declare the cancellation to future insurers.  It has
provided a pro rata refund of the premium. It has also confirmed the cancellation  is not on
his insurance record.
RSA also says that Mr M's drains  require  some maintenance  work and that is not covered.
Since the complaint was with us, Mr M has said the drains blocked again on 13 July 2018.
He had all the tree roots removed (by a non-RSA  contractor),  and since then he says there
have been no problems whatsoever. This means that it has now been several months
without any issues - whereas before he had blocked  drains  in October  2017,  Feb 2018, 
April 2018 and July 2018.
Mr M says the roots his contractor removed  were blocking the connecting drain between two
manholes, which he had been assured by RSA had been checked  by camera  and were  clear
and free flowing.  Mr M says he was lied to and it is clear from this that not all drain pipes
were checked. This amounts to gross negligence and breach of contract Mr M says it is
clear that RSA has not acted in the utmost good  faith, which is required of both parties to an
insurance contact.
Mr M says the primary issue is now the failure of RSA's contractors to look at one of the 
pipes.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that it be upheld and that
it would  be within the policy  terms and reasonable for RSA to have cut the tree roots  and
Ref: DRN79819674reline the drains to ensure the repairs it was carrying  out lasted  a reasonable time and so
this was not an upgrade or improvement. All three  drains should  be free flowing to avoid
further claims on the policy. The investigator  said there  was no evidence  of the comparable
costs of the three attendances to unblock the drains  only and the work required to cut the
roots and line the drain. If RSA could  show that this was more than the policy  limit then she
would consider it but, as there  was no evidence that the long term repair would have been
much more than the cost of repeatedly unblocking,  then it should  carry out a permanent
repair, including lining  if recommended.
The investigator also found that the claims handlers had to refer back to RSA more than 
once to confirm  the coverage under the policy, which  caused  delay and frustration. She 
recommended that a permanent repair be carried out, including  lining the drains; and RSA 
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the 
claim.
RSA says the drains were free flowing and so it was not required to investigate any further
and the roots found by Mr M's contractors in July 2018 have only just come to light.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint it has been  passed to me.
As Mr M had previously  told the investigator that he had had further work done on the drains
by his own contractor  I asked for further details of that work.
In response, Mr M said there is no job sheet or report from July 2018  when he says the roots
were finally fully cleared.  The work was carried out by a local sole trader  and he paid him
£125. He says he may still have a handwritten receipt but none has been provided.
Mr M says his contractor inspected all three  manholes, rodded the pipes and used a long
cutter clearing a large quantity of roots. Mr M says he asked him about lining the drains "He
shook his head laughing and explained to me that there is no need  for lining as there is no
evidence of any damage to the pipes. He said the pipes are entirely fine with the roots  now
having been removed. Going forward he suggested that pre-emptive root cutting can be
earned out every 2-4 years as this would be much more effective than lining  (he stated that
lining is not as durable as often claimed and in effect is a money  maker  in most cases, it
should only be used  where there are broken pipes leaking sewage)."
Mr M now says he wants the amount he paid the contractor to be reimbursed and a total of
£600 compensation. It should be increased from what  the investigator  previously
recommended, given that RSA refused to even consider her recommendation. All the trouble
could have been avoided if itd done the job properly in October  2017.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home emergency policy Mr M holds covers  drainage problems. It also says it will cover 
the:
"cost of the repair parts and call out charges for:
Repairs necessary  to restore  the service or prevent further damage to the home as a result  
of failure or damage to the plumbing or drainage system for which  you are legally 
responsible. 
If a permanent repair is necessary, the authorised tradesman will carry it out provided  the
Ref: DRN79819675cost of the permanent  repair is within the Home Emergency cover policy limit. This cover
may not provide the cost of full repair or replacement an authorised tradesman..."
The policy cover limit is £1,000.
The policy specifically excludes  claims  for "escape of water outside the home, which  is not
causing damage to the interior of the home  or its contents" but has no similar exclusion for
escape of sewage. There are also some other  specific exclusions to the cover relating to
drainage and plumbing but none  that I consider relevant to this claim.
I don't accept that sewage leaking into the garden  would not constitute a home  emergency
to trigger a claim under this policy - or that because Mr M knew  where the sewage was it
could just be avoided.  Raw sewage  leaking into a domestic garden is a health risk and under
any reasonable interpretation  would  amount  to a home emergency. In addition,  the
blockages did and would have continued  to cause  the sewage  to back up to the internal
toilets and using the taps and toilets in the house  would add to this. Mr M also says the
sewage outside was flowing from the manhole across the pavement  and into his neighbour's
driveway; it was also outside the front door.  This would have been a considerable concern
and would have  caused inconvenience.
It has been acknowledged by both parties that if the roots weren't cut properly and
maintained effectively, then it was likely  they would block again. And this has indeed been
the case.
RSA disputes  that the January 2018  blockage is related to the tree root ingress. This is
disputed but I consider  that it is related. The job sheet from that attendance says:
"Blocked Drain
Front garden
Arrived on site to find drain from wc blocked I lifted both manholes  and saw blockage from
the other line used  hpwj to clear blockage from one drain to the next tested wc all was full
flow restored left site safe secure full flow restored. If this issue re occurs it may be roots in
the line as the other drain had a root cut preformed and this line didn't
Cause: Paper towels
Outcome: Flow restored, cleaned and disinfected."
While it says the blockage  was due to paper towels (I accept this probably means paper
toilet tissue) the contractor also says the tissue may have built up due to tree roots. The
problem then recurred in April 2018  and RSA accepts that was due to tree root ingress.
RSA says the policy is not intended  to carry out permanent repairs. However,  the policy
seems clear  to me - a permanent repair will be carried out as long as it is within  the policy
limit There  is no evidence  available  to me that permanent repair - i.e. by removing tree roots
would have been above the policy limit. It may have been acceptable to try to just restore
flow at the first attendance but not where  it is obvious that the problem will recur - the policy
also covers repairs required to prevent further  or future  damage. In my opinion,  RSA should
therefore have  cleared  all the drains of tree roots  at perhaps the second attendance, as it
should have bene apparent then that there  was more of an issue  with tree roots.
Mr M has argued throughout that the permanent repair should also have included  lining all
the drains. RSA says that this isn't a repair at all but would be a very costly preventative
measure, which is not always  effective in preventing tree root ingress  anyway.
Ref: DRN79819676No convincing independent evidence was provided  from either party about this. However,
Mr M now also seems  to accept that it is not necessary following advice from his own
contractor. I do not therefore  agree with the investigator that RSA should line the drains or,
as Mr M asked,  provide  a cash  in lieu settlement for the cost of such  work.
Mr M has now had all the tree roots removed.  I consider it would be fair for RSA to
reimburse the cost of this work. Mr M has provided some photographs  showing what was
cleared but there is no report or invoice from his contractor. RSA would be entitled to the
same, confirming the cost incurred before it is required  to provide reimbursement.
with regard to cancellation of the policy, insurers are generally entitled to decide who they
want to provide insurance to. However,  we would expect them to act reasonably.  RSA has
allowed Mr M to cancel  the policy, so that he does not have to declare  anything to future
insurers. I consider this to be reasonable and I do not therefore intend to take this part of the
complaint any further.
Mr M has also requested significant  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience
caused to him by the repeated blocking of the drains, including  the sewage leaking in his
garden and backing up into the house;  and for the way RSA dealt with his claim and
communications with him.
It is clear from the evidence available to me that Mr M was in contact with RSA a number of
times. He says RSA was obstructive,  rude and on occasion its staff refused  to allow  him to
speak to a manager. While some conversations did not go the way Mr M wanted,  and I can
understand his frustrations when his property was affected by the blockages,  I am not
persuaded that RSA was deliberately obstructive or overall acted unfairly or unreasonably.
While I have concluded it should have done a bit more to resolve  the underlying cause of
each incidence with the drains, I can understand why it took the position  it did at the time.
Overall, however, I agree with the investigator that some compensation is appropriate. I do
not intend to increase the award for compensation recommended by the investigator.
With regard to the data protection  issue, our service cannot make a finding  about whether
there has been a breach of data protection legislation. Thats something that the Information
Commissioner's Office  (ICO) will need to decide.
my provisional decision
I intend uphold  this complaint against  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc and require it to do 
the following:
 pay Mr M £I25 as reimbursement of his contractor's  costs,  upon production of proof of
   this payment; and
 pay him £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its handling
  of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Ref: DRN79819677Mr M has responded and confirmed he accepts my provisional decision. He has also 
provided a receipt  from his contractor for £125. 
RSA has not responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change  my provisional 
findings. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require it to do
the following:
 pay Mr M £125  as reimbursement of his contractors costs, upon production of proof        
of this payment;  and
 pay him £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7981967