K820x#14complaint
Mr M, a representative of the directors of W, a company, has complained about Ws property 
insurer The New India  Assurance  Company Limited (NIA) because it avoided  its policy  
(treated it as though it had never existed) and by so doing refused three claims.
background
In December 2015 a sister company of Ws arranged  cover via a broker for its premises.  The 
cover began but couldnt be formalised  until a proposal form was received. This was 
presented in January 2016  and stated the policyholders  were  both W and the sister 
company that had made the original arrangements. On the proposal form it was confirmed 
that none of the directors of either company  had been directors of any other companies that 
had gone into administration, liquidation or receivership. NIA accepted the proposal.
There was then a claim  in February 2016  which NIA settled. The policy  renewed at the end 
of 2016 and, towards then end of 2017,  two more losses occurred. It made  claims in these 
respects just prior to renewal occurring. Also around the time the claims were made the 
sister company was dissolved. The policy renewed in both names and in March  2018, whilst 
the first two claims were  still being  investigated,  there was a further  loss for which a further 
claim was made.
During NIAs  loss adjusters investigation of the 2017 claims  it was discovered that Ws 
directors had also been directors  of five companies  that, prior to the insurance cover starting 
in 2016, had gone into receivership;  of which three  had first entered  administration,  and one 
of those three had also been liquidated.  NIA said if it had been told this at the outset or at 
renewal it wouldnt have  offered cover. It also felt it should have  been  told about the sister 
company being  dissolved.  NIA avoided  the cover from the outset, returning the full premium.
Mr M complained. He said Ws directors had been unaware of the activity as the accountant 
had sorted  everything. He also said that the action was linked to mortgages  for properties for 
which purpose the companies  in question had been  set up to facilitate financial 
arrangements. As such, the directors  had been unaware that the situation with the other 
companies needed to be declared to NIA. Mr M further argued that the question insurers ask 
about bankruptcy is used to identify prospective policyholders that might  present a moral 
hazard. In the circumstances here,  Ws directors had just been innocent  victims of a 
nationwide financial crisis  but who hadnt left any debts outstanding in their wake. Therefore, 
Mr M felt that NIA would  always have offered cover to W.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He felt NIA 
hadnt just expected W to tell it about important things when the cover  was arranged, it had 
actually asked a specific question which W had answered incorrectly. He was satisfied, from 
what NIA had provided, that if the correct  answer  had been given, cover  wouldnt have been. 
Mr M said this was unfair; W had found another insurer that wasnt bothered about historic  
company backgrounds. He didnt, therefore,  believe NIA was either; that rather  it was using 
this to get out of paying the claims. He felt we should be asking NIA to confirm that it doesnt 
ever offer cover in this sort of situation and if it does then it would have to accept  that, given 
the circumstances here,  because there  is no moral hazard for it to worry about, it would 
indeed have offered cover  to W. Mr M noted  that in the past innocent non-disclosure would 
rarely result in an insurer  taking such drastic  action. 
Ref: DRN74397112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to uphold  
this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M is frustrated. The reference  to innocent non-disclosure though isnt 
relevant. This is an out-dated term but, when it was used, it effectively meant no 
non-disclosure had occurred. That isnt the case here. Nor is it relevant to consider or debate 
about what insurers used  to commonly do (for which theres likely more than one perspective 
anyway). What is important is what happened here and what  NIA has shown  it would have 
done in these circumstances if the correct information had been provided.
When the 2015 policy was formalised in early 2016,  W answered a specific question asked 
by NIA about the financial history of other companies that Ws directors had also been  
directors of. So NIA didnt just expect W to know without being prompted  that it wanted  to be 
told about this; it specifically highlighted it as being  a material  fact it wanted to be given 
information about. W answered this question incorrectly.  In providing an incorrect answer W 
misled NIA and, as a consequence,  NIA wasnt able to properly assess  the risk it was being 
asked to cover and the cover was put in place on a false  pretence.
Whilst Mr M has argued that Ws directors didnt know they had to tell NIA of mortgage 
situations,  the question  W answered didnt include any restriction as to the nature of the 
companies NIA wanted to know about. Mr M has also argued that the directors didnt know  
exactly what had happened with the companies  as the accountants  and banks had handled 
everything. To an extent I accept that  past a certain point the directors  wouldnt have been 
officially informed of activity occurring. But the directors did hand  the properties  and 
companies to the banks.  And they have remained directors of those companies;  meaning 
they are considered to have knowledge  about them. Im also of the view that if, when 
answering the question asked by NIA, the directors didnt think to check what  had happened 
with their companies, following handing mortgaged  properties off to the bank, when 
answering the question NIA had chosen  to specifically ask, that was somewhat  careless.  Im 
not convinced  thats analogous with acting in good faith.
So Im satisfied that W misrepresented the situation to NIA when cover was formalised. Im 
also satisfied that its fair to say that if NIA can show what it would have done,  if it had been  
given the correct information,  it can reasonably do that. 
One of NIAs senior underwriters has said that no cover would have been  given  if the 
financial history of the other companies  had been  declared to it. I note that of particular 
importance to him is the fact that Ws directors remained directors  of the companies  in 
question, four of which havent  yet been liquidated. So Im satisfied that NIA has given 
consideration to the situation  at hand and assessed the actual risk in question. Ive no 
reason to think a different conclusion would  have been reached if this consideration had 
been undertaken at the point the proposal form was provided (if it had contained the correct 
answer). 
I appreciate Mr Ms view of why the question is asked and that he thinks  Ws directors  dont 
present any risk in this respect that NIA would be concerned about. But that doesnt  detract  
from the opposing view stated by NIAs underwriter. 
Ref: DRN74397113Whether or not NIA accepts some risks where  there have been linked companies  with 
histories of bankruptcy, liquidation or receivership is irrelevant. It is up to the commercial 
judgement of the insurer which risks it chooses to accept. And I can understand that some 
risks might be palatable to it, whilst others might not. Thats  not to say Ive seen any 
evidence of that here. The point  is that what NIA might do in other circumstances regarding 
other prospective policyholders  and the risks they present, doesnt impact or change the 
situation as far as determining what NIA would  likely  have done  in respect of W.
Given the clear statement  from NIAs  underwriter, Im satisfied that if NIA had been  told at 
the outset of the financial history of the linked companies, no cover would have been given 
to W. I appreciate the frustration that has occurred, not least because the policy  renewed 
twice before the non-disclosure/misrepresentation was identified.  But those renewals 
wouldnt have been able to occur if the correct information had been provided  in the first 
instance (because the renewing policy would never have existed). And even at renewal, and 
despite the fact that NIA asked no specific questions of W at those times, W was bound to 
tell NIA about material information. So even if I felt for some reason that NIA couldnt have 
avoided the cover from the outset, Id still find it reasonable for it to have done  so from the 
point of the first renewal.
Having taken everything into consideration I think NIA acted fairly and reasonably when it 
avoided Ws policy, and, by so doing,  refused the claims. Im not minded to make  it retract 
that avoidance or deal with the claims.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against The New India Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7439711