K821x#15Complaint
Mr M says London General Insurance Company Limited (LGI) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although a third party sold the PPI, it wasnt a regulated business at the time, so LGIs taken 
responsibility for the sale.
Background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2001 in connection with finance hed arranged to buy a car. 
The PPI primarily provided Mr M disability and unemployment cover  so it would have paid 
a monthly benefit  equal to the car finance monthly repayments if he couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment. I gather it also included  life and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been mis-sold and recommended  the complaint be 
upheld. LGI disagreed,  so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says LGI advised him to buy the policy.  LGI hasnt confirmed whether advice was 
given but, in the absence  of anything to contradict Mr Ms recollections here, Im satisfied  
that I can treat this as an advised  sale. 
That meant LGI needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave Mr M was 
suitable for him. But, having looked  at Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale, I dont  think 
it was suitable  for him. I say that because hes shown us evidence  that he already had a 
long-term income protection insurance policy that covered  him in the event of disablement at 
the time of the sale. 
From what  Mr Ms sent us, his existing policy started  in 2000 with a monthly  benefit  of 
£1,210  which increased annually. The benefit payments would potentially continue  until he 
reached the age of 60. 
In my view, the income protection policy meant Mr M didnt need a PPI policy to protect his 
finance repayments, as his existing  policy already  provided a replacement  income that could 
have covered those  repayments (and more) if needed.
I havent seen  any evidence to show what questions, if any, LGI asked Mr M about  his 
circumstances at the time of the sale. And I think its fair to conclude that Mr M would, on 
balance, have told LGI about the income protection policy if asked. So, I dont think LGI took 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  Mr M about buying  the PPI was suitable.
Ref: DRN71312702LGI doesnt think  the PPI was mis-sold.  It says the adviser would  have discussed  Mr Ms 
circumstances  including his existing cover  with him and opted to take out the PPI which 
also included unemployment  cover and life and critical illness cover.  But I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence  to support that. And I dont see why Mr M would have  wanted  a policy 
that overlapped to such a degree with his existing policy.
LGI says although it hasnt been  able to provide any point  of sale paperwork from 2001  
neither has Mr M. It suggests  this shouldnt be held against it due to the time thats since 
passed. I realise such complaints can be difficult to consider given  the lack of information. 
Nevertheless, it falls to me to decide whether the PPI was mis-sold on the balance of the 
available evidence. Given what both parties  have sent in and told us, I think it was mis-sold.
Putting things  right
LGI should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and LGI should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, LGI can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires LGI to take off tax from this interest.  LGI must give Mr M 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require London  General 
Insurance Company Limited  to put things  right for Mr M as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7131270