K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that she was misled  as her Watford Insurance Company Europe  Limited  
motor insurance policy  didnt cover her for driving  other cars. She wants it to indemnify her 
after she was stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured.
background
Miss R complains that when she took out her comprehensive policy with Watford Insurance 
she was under the impression this allowed her to drive other cars. She said the fact she 
couldnt wasnt highlighted  in the policy documents or limitations. She thought it shouldve 
been made clearer. She was stopped by the police  and is being prosecuted for driving 
another car without insurance.
The administrator of the Watford  Insurance  policy  said that the Key Facts and other policy  
documents set out the exclusions  and limitations to cover. It said it was Miss Rs 
responsibility to read them all and ensure the policy  met her requirements. It thought the 
Certificate of Insurance and policy terms clearly say she is not covered to drive  any other 
vehicle. And when she took out the cover the price  comparison website used  said 
comprehensive cover  was for damage to her own car. It said at no point was Miss R misled 
about being able to drive  other  vehicles.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Miss R 
wanted a policy that allowed her to drive other cars.  She thought  the exclusion was an 
unusual term and this should have been stated clearly. But she didnt think  Watford  
Insurance had done this. She thought  Watford Insurance  should  provide Miss R with a Letter 
of Indemnity to cover  the incident and pay her £200 compensation for her trouble and 
inconvenience. 
Watford Insurance didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, it said 
that Miss R should have  checked her policy documents  to make sure the policy met her 
needs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  a stressful  and frustrating experience for Miss R. Shes  
told us that she thought  her policy included driving other cars.  But this wasnt  the case as 
she found out when she was stopped by the police. She now faces attending court  with the 
possibility of a conviction and points  on her licence.
I think Miss R has shown  us that she wanted  a policy  that included  driving  other cars. Shes 
explained that she needs to do this on occasion  to meet family requirements.  She thought 
this would be included  in a comprehensive policy.   
Watford Insurance said the policy  Miss R bought didnt include the driving other  cars 
extension. It said this wasnt an exclusion, so it didnt need to set this out as an exclusion. 
But Ive seen other comprehensive  policies  that provide third party cover for driving other 
cars. So I think not allowing this is an unusual term and a limitation  or an exclusion from 
cover. 
Ref: DRN73383492As this is a significant  term, I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording  and in the 
summary or Key Facts  document. 
Watford Insurance said it hadnt misled  Miss R about the level of cover provided by her 
policy. Miss R bought her policy online through a comparison site. She selected 
Comprehensive cover  which  a help note says covers  damage to her own car. Watford 
Insurance said the Certificate of Insurance  stated that she wasnt covered to drive  any other 
cars apart from her own under any circumstances.  This was restated in the details of the 
policy document. 
But I dont think this was enough to draw  the limitation to Miss Rs attention.  The comparison 
site didnt highlight  that cover for driving  other  cars wasnt included in the policy.  I havent 
seen that Watford  Insurance  provided a Key Facts document.  The term is included in the 
Certificate of Insurance, but its in small print in a footnote at the bottom of the Certificate. 
The term is included in the policy documents, but its on page  9 under the heading Liability  
to Third Parties and not immediately obvious. 
So as I think the term is significant, then I think Watford Insurance  should have brought  it 
clearly to Miss Rs attention during the sales process. This would make  sure she could check  
that the policy met her needs and then act accordingly. I dont think  Watford  Insurance did 
this. I think if Miss R had been sufficiently  informed she wouldnt have bought the policy.  So I 
think Watford Insurance should provide Miss R with a Letter of Indemnity  she can present to 
the court. 
I also think Miss R was caused embarrassment by being stopped by the police in front of 
family members. And she has suffered  stress and anxiety since  then with the threat  of a 
court appearance. So I think Watford Insurance should reasonably compensate  her for this. 
The investigator recommended  £200  and I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id 
require in similar circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford  Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
1.Provide Miss R with a Letter of Indemnity that she can present to the court to cover  her 
for the incident  in question where  she was stopped by the police for driving whilst 
uninsured.
2.Pay Miss R £200  for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused  by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7338349