K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way American  Express Services Europe Limited has dealt with his 
credit card account. 
background
Mr H made  a reservation at a restaurant. He says he called to cancel it but on the day the 
restaurant called him enquiring where  he and his party were. Shortly after that he noticed a 
charge of £400 had been debited  from his AmEx  card for a no show. He disputed this 
transaction. AmEx  said it would investigate and later said it wouldnt be processing a 
chargeback. Mr H says he tried to pay off the balance on his card less the £400 but AmEx 
wouldnt accept the payment  and he was charged  a non payment fee. A few months later 
AmEx said it was investigating matters  again.  But Mr H was subsequently told Am Ex 
wouldnt be processing a chargeback and it referred  to the restaurants  terms and conditions. 
Mr H then started court proceedings  against the restaurant and he says it paid him the £400 
directly into his bank account.
Mr H is unhappy about the way AmEx has handled  matters. In summary he doesnt believe 
AmEx investigated in the first place and says it didnt process a chargeback on two 
occasions. That led to him having to go to court. Hes unhappy about the charges and 
interest applied  to his account relating to the disputed payment and that he was threatened 
with a default being entered.  He wants all interest  refunded, reimbursement of £35 court 
costs and compensation for his time.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Hes satisfied that AmEx carried out a first investigation. The restaurant supplied a 
receipt showing Mr Hs card number and the value of the transaction.  And AmEx  
regarded this as proof  of a legitimate transaction. The restaurant later supplied  a 
sample email it said it wouldve sent Mr H. It was reasonable for a second 
investigation to take place.
Mr H agrees he gave the restaurant his card detail and the restaurant  argued it acted 
in line with its terms and conditions by levying the no show charge. The transaction  
wasnt fraudulent. In the circumstances AmEx  acted correctly  by considering it to be 
legitimate. The dispute is actually about whether Mr H rang in advance to cancel his 
booking. That isnt something that can be dealt  with by the internal chargeback  
procedure and was best addressed by the court.  
AmEx  has shown it didnt receive one letter from Mr H which couldve been lost in 
transit. And a failure to send  Mr H some documents after the first investigation didnt 
have a material effect on the chargeback outcome.
AmEx  conducted its chargeback processes fairly. And it correctly  applied the interest 
and late payment markers on to Mr Hs account  in line with the accounts  terms and 
conditions.
In its final response AmEx  agreed  to waive all charges applied to 23 April 2019. This 
left the account  with an outstanding  balance of £400. By then the restaurant had 
refunded £400 to Mr H. And its reasonable to assume he wouldve covered the 
balance with this once it was paid into his bank account. 
Ref: DRN76665092Mr H agreed  to make the necessary payments into his account  in accordance with its 
terms and conditions.  And AmEx hasnt acted unfairly in enforcing these terms by 
applying charges and default  markers to his account. As AmEx has acted reasonably  
he will not be asking it to do any more  including refunding the court costs or giving 
redress for Mr Hs time.
Mr H remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says its 
shocking that the fact a transaction has gone  through is considered to be a sufficient 
investigation. The restaurant didnt send him an email with its terms. He didnt authorise the 
transaction. If AmEx  had conducted  a reasonable investigation he wouldnt have had to go to 
court. The restaurant  knew of the flaws in its case and immediately refunded the £400  after 
he started court action.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr H has provided extensive and very detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive 
read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably  less detail. And 
they focus on what I think are the main issues.
Mr H says he made the booking with the restaurant  on the phone and he wasnt  referred to 
or told of its terms and conditions. But the restaurants terms are on its website and its 
suggested Mr H wouldve likely been sent an email about them.  The terms on the specimen 
email provided by the restaurant include a charge for each guest if theres a no show.
In this case it isnt disputed that Mr H gave the restaurant his credit card details. And the 
dispute relates to whether or not he called in advance  to cancel his booking.  I agree with the 
investigator that this isnt something that can be resolved in the chargeback  process. That is 
designed to deal with fraudulent transactions.
Here when Mr H disputed  the £400  transaction  AmEx correctly initiated  a chargeback 
procedure on two occasions. In doing so it was entitled to rely on the information provided  at 
each time by Mr H and the restaurant. This showed  Mr H had given the restaurant his card 
details and it provided a transaction notification. The restaurant also provided a specimen 
email which  it said it wouldve sent Mr H although  he denies receiving one. It said the 
transaction had been carried out in line with its terms and conditions. Based  on the available  
evidence AmEx concluded  on each occasion that it couldnt make a chargeback  as Mr H 
wanted. Overall I think on balance that AmEx  operated its chargeback  process fairly and 
reached a reasonable conclusion each time on the available evidence. 
When Mr H took out the account he agreed  to its terms  and conditions. These said, amongst 
other things,  that he had to make the required payments on time failing which  AmEx  could  
apply interest, charges  and information on his credit file. As he missed making payments I 
think it was therefore  reasonable for AmEx to apply  charges, interest and threaten  to default 
his account. That was all in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN76665093Even so AmEx has waived some charges which took the account balance  back down to 
£400. So, when  Mr H received the refund of that amount  from the restaurant into his bank 
account it was open  to him to pay this money  into his credit  card account.
Mr H says AmEx forced  him to go to court and that it should  reimburse  him £35 of court  
costs. But I dont think that would be fair not least as AmEx operated its chargeback process  
correctly. Mr H says the restaurant  realised  the flaws in its case  as soon  as the proceedings 
started but we dont  know why it decided to settle the claim. And even if that were  the case  it 
doesnt mean that AmEx shouldve  agreed  to the chargeback at any time.
Mr H wants AmEx to compensate him for the time hes spent on this matter. But I dont think  
I can fairly ask it to do so. All consumers spend  some time and experience some additional 
inconvenience in dealing  with a matter  like this and a complaint and putting things right. We 
wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably depart from this approach in this case.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mr Hs frustration and strength of 
feeling, Im not persuaded on balance  that AmEx has done anything  wrong and I think it 
acted reasonably by removing  some  of the interest and charges on the account to take its 
balance back to £400. 
Consequently I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require AmEx to do anything more  
including reimbursing Mr H for the court fees or compensating  him including for his time.
Overall think the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666509