K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss W complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr S and Miss W bought  a MPPI  policy which started in November 2000  to protect their 
mortgage repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds.  
Mr S was covered against accident, sickness and unemployment as the sole policy  holder.
Mr S and Miss W believe  Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy.  They  say they were  pressured 
into taking PPI with Lloyds. They add that there  werent made  aware that they could have 
said no.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr S and Miss W dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Miss Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the insurance was presented  to Mr S and Miss W during the meeting 
they had with Lloyds when they were sold the MPPI  policy.  Mr S and Miss W have 
provided their recollections as to what happened  including  that they were  pressured into 
having the policy. But Mr S and Miss W have not been able to provide anything  to 
support what they have said about the sale. Their  recollections  are also not detailed  but 
this is understandable  seen as a lot of time has passed since this meeting  took place. 
So because of what I have just concluded, I have needed to look further at the sales  
documentation to help me understand what most likely happened during this meeting. 
After considering the documentation provided  and what  I know of how Lloyds sold 
policies at the time of sale, it is most likely  that they were advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance  to protect their mortgage,  and they took the policy  on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation from the sale that I 
have suggests  to me that the policy was presented  as optional. I can see on a sales 
document called  a payment protection plus proposal form that Mr S signed separately  
for the insurance.  When this form was being  completed, it seems to me that some 
discussion most likely would have  been  had around  the suitability of having the policy,  
rather than Lloyds  not making  Mr S and Miss W aware that they could have said no. I 
think it is most likely  they were given a choice and advised on what  type of policy they 
wanted and how the benefit  would be split between Mr S and Miss W (on this occasion it 
was 100% to Mr S).
Ref: DRN77192192Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended MPPI to Mr S and Miss W (rather than sell the 
policy as a compulsory requirement  or put pressure on them  to have it), but it doesnt 
look as if the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr S (as the sole policy  holder) based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of sale. He has told our service he could have  
relied on statutory  sick pay but the benefits  provided  by the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this amount  over an extended period, in a difficult time. Mr S and Miss W 
didnt have enough provisions that I can see at the time of sale that would have meant 
they wouldnt have  found value in the benefit offered  by Mr S having  the cover. I can also 
see no other reasons  such  as a significant  or restrictive term that would make the policy  
unsuitable either.
I can see from the sales  documentation  that Mr S and Miss W were  clearly provided with 
the costs associated with the MPPI  policy. It was reasonably priced compared to similar  
policies available  at the time and to the monthly  mortgage repayments. And                   
Mr S and Miss W could have cancelled the policy at any time if it did become 
unaffordable. Im not persuaded Mr S and Miss W would have avoided protecting  their 
repayments given  the serious  consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against 
their home.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policies didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr S wouldve  been affected  by any of these based  on his circumstances  at the 
time of sale.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and Miss W, but on balance, I do not 
uphold their complaint  for the reasons  that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S and Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719219