K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc T/as Birmingham Midshires  (BoS)  mis-sold 
them Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance (MPPI) alongside their mortgage.  Specifically  
they say they were  led to believe they had to have MPPI to get the mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  in 1977. BoS says Mr and Mrs Bs MPPI  started  in 
1996  several  years  after their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say they are confused  by this start 
date  they say they wouldve taken it out at the start of the mortgage not when it was soon 
to be repaid.
While there  is limited  information available about the policy  and how it was sold, what 
information there is shows the policy  was in Mr Bs sole name only;  it only provided 
unemployment cover; it provided a benefit of around £120 a month (including an additional 
amount over and above their regular mortgage payment) for up to 12 months; and its cost 
was likely to have been around  £10 a month.
The policy ended when the mortgage  account  closed  in 2002.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said BoS records showed a 
policy start date of 1996 and there  was nothing to suggest this was incorrect. In summary he 
went on to say that there was nothing to indicate  that Mr and Mrs B had lost out as a result  
of having the policy  because it wasnt fundamentally wrong for them.
Mr and Mrs B disagree and they remain unhappy  and confused about the start date, so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken account of whats  relevant  here in deciding Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was taken out quite some time ago and it has long since been 
repaid. This means not all of the information about  the MPPI policy  for example  how it was 
taken out and its actual cost  is now available. And this isnt surprising  businesses arent 
obliged to keep  records forever.
But what  information there is indicates  Mr and Mrs Bs policy  started in 1996  some time 
after their mortgage  began. I can see Mr and Mrs B are confused by this start date  they 
say they wouldve taken the policy out when the mortgage started, not when  it was soon to 
be repaid.
I understand Mr and Mrs B might  be confused; they are after all trying  to recall  events  from 
many years ago. But Ive not seen anything to doubt BoS records. It doesnt surprise  me 
that Mr and Mrs B didnt take the policy out when the mortgage  started  because  I dont think  
policies like these were  available  at this time. If they were, they werent common.  MPPI was 
typically sold from the 1990s when the then government began to reduce the level of State 
support for mortgage borrowers who were  out of work.
Ref: DRN76644912Private insurance started to become more widespread as lenders increased  their offering to 
mortgage borrowers  both new and existing - to help fill the gap. So it doesnt surprise me 
that it was during this decade that BoS offered Mr and Mrs B the opportunity  to take out 
insurance for their mortgage.
As a result, I think it is more likely than not that BoS records are correct and Mr and Mrs B 
took out MPPI in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs Bs key complaint is that they were led to believe  they had to have MPPI  to take 
out their mortgage.  But given  what Ive found about when their policy started  some 19 
years after they took out the mortgage  this isnt possible. I think its likely Mr and Mrs B are 
mistaken in their recollections.
And while there isnt any information to tell me how the sale came about, given it happened  
long after the mortgage started; the policy was in Mr Bs sole name  only; it only covered  him 
for unemployment (it didnt provide  accident and sickness  cover);  and they added  an 
additional benefit amount  above their monthly  mortgage payment, it seems to me that when 
BoS offered  it to them  whether this was during a branch  meeting  or by mailshot for 
example - Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out and they did so only after careful thought about 
their needs  and circumstances.
The limited  evidence also doesnt tell me whether Mr and Mrs B got all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about it. Or whether BoS 
advised them with reasonable care and skill (if any advice  was given) to ensure MPPI was 
suitable for them.
But even if I was to make a firm finding  that BoS failed to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly  and 
reasonably in its dealings with them, given  their circumstances at the time I think the policy  
was ultimately suitable. And Ive not seen anything, which leads me to think they would most 
likely have acted differently and declined the cover had BoS done more.  I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the cover.
he was employed, so he wouldnt have been caught by the significant limitations and 
exclusions around unusual or different employment circumstances e.g. self 
employment.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have significant  existing means or similar alternative cover  which 
made the policy unsuitable. Mr Bs level of sick pay isnt important here because the 
policy didnt provide accident and sickness cover. Mr and Mrs B say they had some 
savings, but the policy  would have  paid out for up to 12 months meaning it could 
have either complemented  their existing means  or allowed  them  to retain their 
savings for other purposes. So I think they had a need  for cover  it would have 
played a useful part in helping protect  their home if Mr B had been  made  
unemployed. 
while the exact cost of the policy isnt known  based on the pricing information 
contained within the applicable policy document (£6.50 for every £100  of monthly 
benefit) the cost appears to have  been affordable.
I understand Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I dont  think  
theyve lost out as a result of having  MPPI  because I think  they most  likely chose to take it 
out and it was suitable for their circumstances  and needs at the time.
Ref: DRN76644913my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B have not suffered loss as 
a result of taking out MPPI to protect their mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664491