K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs S complain  that Bluedrop Services (NW) Limited  charged  them  a broker fee 
and earned commission  from their insurer without disclosing  this to them. They  think  theres  
a conflict of interests and they dont think Bluedrop undertook a proper search of the 
insurance market on their behalf.
background
In 2017 Mr W and Mrs S used an insurance broker, Bluedrop, to help them arrange home 
insurance. Mr W and Mrs S live in a high value property. So Bluedrop  looked at insurers 
offering appropriate  cover  and recommended that they take out insurance cover with an 
insurer, who Ill refer to as H in this decision. 
Mr W and Mrs S took out a policy with H, which commenced on 14 November 2017.  On 24 
October 2018, Bluedrop  wrote to Mrs S to remind her that the insurance policy  was due to 
expire on 14 November  2018 and would  need to be renewed. It said it had undertaken a 
search of the insurance market on Mr W and Mrs S behalf and identified that H was still very 
competitive. Bluedrops correspondence explained  what the new policy premium would be 
and that it would include a broker fee of almost £400.
Mr W and Mrs S found out that in addition to the broker fee Bluedrop was earning 
commission from the insurer it had recommended  to them.  They thought  this should have 
been disclosed to them at the outset.  And they were concerned that this created a conflict  of 
interests. Specifically,  Mr W and Mrs S felt that if Bluedrop was receiving  payment  from the 
insurer it compromised  its ability to act in their best interests and recommend the best 
insurance policy for them. 
Mr W and Mrs S decided  not to renew their insurance via Bluedrop  and they subsequently 
found a cheaper  insurance policy elsewhere. Because  of this, and the commission Bluedrop  
would have received, they felt it hadnt undertaken a proper  search of the insurance market  
on their behalf. They  say if it had it would have  found there were cheaper quotes available.
When Mr W and Mrs S brought their complaint  to us they wanted to know whether our 
service thought an insurance  broker acting for them could charge a broker fee and earn 
commission from their insurer.  They also wanted  to know whether Bluedrop had acted 
incorrectly by not disclosing  that it that it had arrangement whereby it would be paid 
commission. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think 
Bluedrop had done anything wrong  in receiving a commission payment from H and she 
didnt think it was obliged  to disclose this to Mr W and Mrs S until they asked. But they 
disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In their complaint,  Mr W and Mrs S have gone to some  trouble to provide our service  with 
some very detailed points.  I want to assure  them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I 
hope Mr W and Mrs S will understand if I dont address every comment theyve made  in this 
Ref: DRN70757722decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. My role is to 
decide if Bluedrop  have dealt with Mr W and Mrs S in a fair and reasonable way.
The first part of Mr W and Mrs S complaint  is about  whether Bluedrop is entitled to earn 
commission from their insurer  in circumstances  where its charged  them  a broker  fee. So, Ill 
focus on that issue first.
Its clear that Mr W and Mrs S have concerns that if Bluedrop was earning  commission  it 
may sway  it as to which insurer  to recommend.  They  feel the commission  it earned from H 
was excessive. So, they think it was in Bluedrops  interest to continue  to recommend that 
they insure with H. They  say earning commission creates a conflict  of interests. But Ill 
explain why I think Bluedrop has acted  reasonably.
Brokers either work for businesses or consumers and in this case Bluedrop was working for 
Mr W and Mrs S. In general they have a panel of insurers  which  they will draw policies from 
and apply according to what they deem  to be suitable for the consumer. 
Bluedrop earns  commission from all insurers that are on its panel. It says that prior to 
recommending that Mr W and Mrs S renew their policy with H it had searched its panel  and 
obtained an alternative quote, which would  have earnt it 11% more  commission.  However, 
that quote was slightly  higher and the cover was like for like. Bluedrop chose not to 
recommend that insurer to Mr W and Mrs S. Instead it recommended the most competitively 
priced quote as it thought this was the most suitable policy.  It also did this in 2017. 
I think this demonstrates that Bluedrop wasnt influenced by commission  levels  when it 
recommended insurance policies  to Mr W and Mrs S. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
its independence was compromised  or that it was biased in recommending  that Mr W and 
Mrs S insure with H for another year as theyve suggested. 
While Bluedrop received  both commission and broker  fee payments, theres nothing to 
demonstrate that it had a conflict of interests here.  I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs M were able 
to obtain a cheaper quote elsewhere.  But this doesnt mean that the policy Bluedrop 
recommended wasnt  suitable or that it didnt  act in their best interests or obtain the most 
competitive insurance  quote it was able to. And overall, I dont  think it was wrong for 
Bluedrop to earn payments from both Mr W and Mrs S and H.
Mr W and Mrs S say the commission Bluedrop received from H was excessive. But Ive seen 
evidence to show that the commission  it would  have been paid by H is 20%,  which is well 
within normal business commission rates. It isnt unreasonable and Ive already mentioned  
an alternative quote that it found for Mr W and Mrs S which had a higher commission  
earning. Had they taken  out a policy with that insurer instead Bluedrop would have received 
31% commission. With that in mind  I dont think I can conclude that the commission 
Bluedrop would have  received from H was excessive  or unfair.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr W and Mrs S complaint,  which is about whether 
Bluedrop was required to disclose to Mr W and Mrs S that it was receiving commission  from 
the insurer they took out their home insurance  policy  with. 
Mr W and Mrs S feel that Bluedrop should have been disclosed it was earning  a commission 
on their policy at the outset. But it says there  was no obligation for it to do unless and until 
asked. Bluedrop has referred Mr W and Mrs S to The Insurance Conduct of Business  
Ref: DRN70757723Sourcebook (ICOBS). And I can see it sent Mr W and Mrs S a link to the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook,  which  contains  the ICOBS rules. I think  this was helpful. 
ICOBS Rule 4 deals  with the disclosure  of commission and says:
An insurance intermediary must, on a commercial customer's request, promptly  disclose the 
commission that it and any associate receives  in connection with a policy .
But this rule applies to commercial customers. Theres no provision in ICOBS for the 
disclosure of commission to non commercial consumers such as Mr W and Mrs S. So I cant 
conclude that Bluedrop was obliged to reveal  details of its commission.  
Mr W and Mrs S have  referred our service  to ICOBS 4.3.7, which  is about  remuneration 
disclosure by insurance intermediaries.  They  feel Bluedrop hasnt complied with this rule as 
they say it requires brokers to disclose any commission paid in good time before the 
conclusion of the initial contract of insurance  and, if necessary, on its amendment 
or renewal . 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W and Mrs S have said here. But I think Bluedrop 
complied with this rule. I say this because its terms of business  explain that its willing to 
discuss commission arrangements with non commercial customers. These terms state  if 
you would  like to know the amount  of commission that we are paid in respect of your 
insurance contract,  this information is available  on request.
Mr W and Mrs S say information about commission is hidden  away.  But I dont agree 
because its set out clearly on page  4 under the heading disclosure of commission. And I 
think the content makes  it very clear that Bluedrop receives a commission  payment, which 
its willing to disclose if asked. 
Mr W and Mrs S say this information was only sent to Mrs S. But Mrs S communicated  with 
Bluedrop while Mr W was abroad. He didnt ask Bluedrop to send him duplicate documents.  
And, in those circumstances, I dont  think it was unreasonable for correspondence  to be 
addressed to only Mrs S. 
The insurance policy was in joint names  and I think its reasonable for an insurer  to expect 
both policyholders to have  access to documentation sent. It had no reason to think that Mr W 
was unaware of its terms of business.  And, given  that the terms of business were  emailed  
and posted to Mrs S, I think they both ought  to have been aware that commission was being 
charged, which they could have asked about  at any time
Overall, Im satisfied that Bluedrops terms of business disclosed that it earned commission.  
Im also satisfied that Bluedrop promptly told Mr W and Mrs S what its commission 
arrangement was when they asked. It acted in line with its terms of business. So I cant 
reasonably uphold this part of their complaint.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr W and Mrs S brought this complaint to our service.  But, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think Bluedrop has done  anything wrong here. And, 
because of this, I wont  be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN70757724Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7075772