K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the customer service she received from Assurant General Insurance 
Limited following  a claim  on her gadget insurance policy.
background
I sent Mrs S and Assurant  a provisional decision on 16 December 2019 to explain why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Mrs S made  a claim on her insurance  policy  for damage to her iPad and Assurant arranged 
for the iPad to be collected for repair. However, the wrong parcel  was collected by the 
delivery company  and Mrs S contacted Assurant to try and get the parcel  returned to her.
Assurant and the delivery company tried to find the parcel, but it appears it has now been 
lost. Mrs S is unhappy as she doesnt feel Assurant did enough to help return  the parcel to 
her, and she feels Assurant should  pay her the value of the items in the incorrectly collected 
parcel.

The delivery company  collected the wrong parcel on 26 November 2018. Its not clear what  
caused the delivery company to collect the wrong parcel. Mrs S hasnt given  us an 
explanation of what happened. And while Assurant  says Mrs S told it she gave the delivery 
company the wrong package, I havent  seen any evidence of this from the time. But based  
on the information I have, I think its likely that it was some mistake  by Mrs S that caused the 
wrong parcel  to be collected.
Its also not clear when Mrs S first contacted Assurant  to tell it that the wrong  parcel had 
been collected. Mrs S says she called immediately but, from what  she says,  it appears this 
was at least after the parcel had been  delivered  to Assurant on 27 November 2018. Assurant 
says the first call it received from Mrs S was around  a week  after the parcel  was collected, 
on 3 December 2018. But, again, its not sent us any evidence  of this from the time.
Assurant has sent us a record  of a parcel being sent to the delivery companys lost property 
department on 27 November 2018 and delivered on 28 November 2018. Due to the dates 
and times  involved,  it seems likely  this was Mrs Ss parcel. And so, even if Mrs S did call 
Assurant on 27 November  2018, it appears  the parcel had already been sent back to the 
delivery company  at this point.
Assurant has also sent us an example of the repair centre note that would  be included with 
deliveries it received and which allows it to identify  who the items  belong to. As a note like 
this wouldnt have been included with the incorrectly collected parcel, I think its likely that 
Assurant wouldnt have  been able to identify  who it belonged to. And, as Assurant wouldnt 
have been able to identify  who the parcel  belonged to, I think it was reasonable for it to send 
it to the delivery  companys lost property  department.
Once it was made aware of the incorrectly collected  parcel, Assurants notes show that it 
contacted the delivery company several times, giving it the tracking  number for the parcel 
and asking for it to be sent back to Mrs Ss address.  It appears  that the delivery company 
Ref: DRN73674412wasnt able to find the parcel.  But I dont  think theres much  more that Assurant could have  
done at this point.
As I dont think it was at fault for the initial collection of the incorrect parcel, I think  it acted 
reasonably when it received a parcel  it couldnt identify and it took reasonable steps to try 
and get the parcel back from the delivery company, I dont think Assurant has acted 
unreasonably here.
I can also see that Mrs Ss iPad was later collected and a replacement delivered  to her on 
12 December 2018.
So I dont  think the customer service Mrs S received following her claim was unreasonable 
and I dont think it would be fair to require Assurant to pay her any compensation.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs S and Assurant sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Assurant said it didnt  have anything further  to add in response to the provisional  decision.
Mrs S said two parcels were  left with the porter and that she doesnt know  how the wrong 
parcel was collected  by the delivery company.
Where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make my decision on the 
basis of what I think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence  I do have. I dont 
know for sure why the wrong parcel  was collected but I said in my provisional decision that, 
based on the information I have,  I think its likely  that it was some  mistake by Mrs S that 
caused it. And Mrs S hasnt given us much  more information in her response, so I still think 
this is the case.
Mrs S has also highlighted that she called Assurant immediately to get the parcel  back. But 
the letter where she says this only mentions this call after it mentions the parcel  being  signed 
for on 27 November 2018. And, as I explained in my provisional  decision, its likely the parcel 
was sent back  to the delivery company on 27 November 2018  too.
Assurant also says the first call it received from Mrs S was on 3 December  2018.  So its not 
clear if Mrs S did call Assurant on 27 November 2018. And even  if she did, I think its likely 
the parcel had already been  sent back to the delivery company at that point.
Mrs S said Assurant told her, through  the delivery company, that the parcel  would be 
returned to her. But her previous letter to us says she was told the parcel would  be sought 
and sent back. This suggests Assurant hadnt yet found the parcel but would  look for it. 
And, as I explained above, it appears  the parcel had already been sent back to the delivery 
company by the time this call was made. So I dont think Assurant was promising that it 
would send the parcel back, I think it was telling Mrs S what it would try to do to help. And I 
dont think Assurant saying this was unreasonable or dishonest.
Ref: DRN73674413As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think it was reasonable for Assurant to send the 
parcel back to the delivery company, as it wouldnt have been  able to identify who it 
belonged to.
Mrs S also forwarded a copy of an email  from the delivery company which she says shows  
Assurant was at fault and didnt send the parcel  back to the delivery company correctly. But, 
as I explained  in my provisional decision, Assurant  has sent us a record  of a parcel being 
sent to the delivery companys lost property department which  I think  was likely Mrs Ss 
parcel. While  the delivery company says the parcel was lost in transit and isnt in their lost 
property department, I dont think this is enough for me to fairly say that Assurant acted 
unreasonably.
So I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct and I dont think  
it would  be fair to require  Assurant to pay Mrs S any compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367441