K821x#15complaint
Mr B is represented. His representative  says Quilter Financial Services  Ltd (Quilter) is 
responsible for unsuitable investment advice given to him in 2007.
background
The representative made the following main  submissions:
In 2007 Mr B emerged from a traumatic change in his circumstances and had a 
settlement related  to that in the amount of £47,000. He was 60 years old in that year 
and had no previous investment experience. He used part of the settlement as a 
deposit for a property  purchase and was advised  to invest £20,000 in an 
Aviva Investment Bond (the bond).
Recommendation of, and investment  in, the bond was unsuitable because it was too 
risky for his inexperienced  investor profile; it consumed too high a proportion  of his 
settlement and left him with insufficient cash reserves; and it was made at a time 
when he was not in the correct  frame of mind to properly understand the effects of 
the investment.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  
The investigator noted that Mr B had been  given a medium  risk profile at the time of the 
investment; he considered that profile  unreliable  in the absence  of evidence  of how it was 
assessed and in the context of Mr B being  an inexperienced investor; he was not persuaded 
that Mr B had such a profile or capacity to be exposed to that level of investment risk; he 
noted that a significant  majority  of the bond was held in equities (with a minority held in cash) 
and that this was too risky for him based  on his circumstances (including  evidence that 
suggests he had minimal  disposable income); he said the bond consumed around  two thirds 
of the remainder of the settlement [after the property deposit]  and he considered this too 
much given that Mr B was five years away from retirement, with limited  capacity to make up 
for losses; and he considered that the bond  lacked diversification.
Mr B welcomed this outcome. Quilter disputes  the complaint and the investigators findings.  
In the main,  it says:
There is no conclusive evidence that Mr B had no previous  investment experience.  
He was a member of an occupational  pension scheme at the time so it can be 
assumed that he was aware of how pensions  and investments  operate.
Its process at the time did not require documentation of a risk questionnaire but 
assessment of Mr Bs risk profile would  have taken place  based  on standard 
guidance [copies  of which it has shared with this service] and the suitability letter  sent 
to him confirmed he had a medium  risk profile.  He did not object to the letter  at the 
time so it is  reasonable to conclude that it accurately captured his attitude to risk 
(ATR) and his objective (accumulation of  a growing capital fund for use in the 
future and to provide a more tax-efficient income  ). The bond matched Mr Bs 
medium ATR and his objective, so it was suitable.
The suitability letter recorded  that Mr B required a cash reserve  of at least £5,000, 
after his investment in the bond  he was left with double that amount (£10,000)  as a 
contingency fund.  This also defeats  the investigators reference to the bond 
consuming two thirds  of his available capital. The remainder  was more than sufficient 
as a cash reserve.
Ref: DRN76075702The investigators views and conclusion rests,  unfairly, on hindsight. Furthermore, 
there is a contradiction  in his conclusion with regards to redress because it is partly  
based on an equities benchmark whereas he also found that more of Mr Bs capital 
should have remained  in cash.
The bond was sufficiently diversified.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his conclusion and Quilter  asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs claim cites a number of reasons for which his representative says the bond was 
unsuitable and a number of elements of the bond recommendation  have been addressed  by 
the investigator and Quilter.  I consider that the bond was unsuitable  mainly  because it was 
too risky for Mr B and, as the investigator  noted, I am not persuaded that he had the capacity 
to cope with loss within the bond.
As Quilter has highlighted, no performance guarantee was given to Mr B. As such, and aside 
from whether (or not) the bond matched his objectives, it was important that he had the ATR 
and capacity for loss that matched the characteristics of the bond and the risks within  it.
On balance and in the absence of a documented ATR assessment, I do not consider 
Quilters main evidence of Mr Bs ATR  that is, reference to it in the suitability letter  to be 
reliable. It is noteworthy  that in its earlier correspondence with this service (and in response  
to our request for documentation  on the assessment) Quilter  referred  to Mr Bs ATR as 
follows  
The Suitability report confirms that The risk profile for the fund is medium   therefore we 
would assume his ATR at the time was Medium. [my emphasis]
It would appear that even  Quilter  in the course of disputing the complaint  could draw, 
from the suitability  letter, no more than an assumption about Mr Bs ATR. My task is to make  
findings on the balance of probabilities, so such an assumption falls below that threshold.  I 
appreciate that Quilter  also highlighted reference  to the medium ATR in the fact find 
document that has been shared with us. However,  that document also lacks  information 
about or evidence  of how the ATR was assessed.
Available evidence,  mainly based  on Mr Bs testimony, is that he was an inexperienced  
investor in 2007  and there does not appear to be evidence to dispute  his assertion in this 
respect or to suggest he was active in managing the occupational pension Quilter  referred  
to. On balance,  whilst I accept that Mr B knew investments carry investment risks  which  
his representative  concedes  and whilst I accept that he was in a position to undertake  
some investment risk with part of the settlement  capital in 2007, wider evidence  of his 
circumstances indicate that a limited  level of risk exposure would  have been  suitable for him 
 but not the medium risk exposure (and majority exposure to equities) that resulted from the 
bond recommendation (and investment). 
As the investigator  said, Mr B was inexperienced as an investor, he appears to have had 
minimal disposable income  and he was relatively close  to retirement. In addition,  recent  
Ref: DRN76075703indebtedness for him around the time of the bond investment, in terms of the mortgage for 
the property purchase, was relevant  this (and, it seems,  other  indebtedness) appears  to 
have been recorded in the fact find document. This, along with the consumption of two thirds 
of his available capital within the bond,  added to the risk that he would not have the financial 
capacity to cope  with loss in the bond  investment. 
This is not a point  about having  a sufficient cash reserve  as Quilter has addressed   it is a 
point about the likelihood  that, with his financial circumstances at the time, Mr B would have 
struggled to recover from loss in the bond investment. Given the nature of the bonds  
contents, it was foreseeable that such loss could happen and could be significant.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I am persuaded that the bond was 
unsuitable for Mr B.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mr B as close  as I can to the position he 
would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that, 
but for the recommendation to invest in the bond, he would have behaved differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done  differently but I am satisfied  that what  I 
have set out below is fair given his circumstances  and objectives at the time.
what must  Quilter do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  Quilter  must:
Compare the performance of the bond with that of the benchmark  shown below and 
pay him compensation in the form of the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. However,  if the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation for financial loss is payable.  Pay him interest  as set out 
below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple  
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Aviva 
Investment  
Bondsurrenderedfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England  
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return  Index (prior to 
1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA  Stock Market  
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
surrender 8% simple per 
year from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement 
Ref: DRN76075704actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed  rate bonds  as the 
benchmark, Quilter should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  
as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates should be applied  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other  payment  out of the investments should  be deducted  from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals  all of those payments  and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  and income,  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds,  and would  be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objective. The 50/50 combination 
above would  reasonably put him into that position and it broadly reflects the sort of 
return he could have  obtained from an investment suited to his profile.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order Quilter Financial Services  
Ltd to pay him compensation as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation  of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept  or reject  my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7607570