K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr J and Miss S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the MPPI.  
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  only covered Mr J, so Ive kept 
this in mind.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr J and Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr J and Miss S say that they werent told that the MPPI policy was optional   and felt that 
they wouldnt get their mortgage if they didnt  take it out. I wasnt  there  at the time,  so I cant 
know what was said, and Mr J and Miss S havent  said much about  why they felt this way 
either. So I have  to base my decision on the information I do have.
Lloyds has provided  information and paperwork from the time Mr J and Miss S took out their 
mortgage, and from when the application  for MPPI  was made. Mr J and Miss S applied  for 
their mortgage in 2003  it completed in October 2003. I can see from this paperwork that 
MPPI is presented as an optional product, and theres a tick saying that Mr J and Miss S 
would like to apply for the policy. Lloyds dont have a copy of the MPPI  application  that 
wouldve been completed  however it has told us that no MPPI premiums were charged  for 
this policy  as it was cancelled.
Lloyds has also provided a copy of an MPPI application that has been completed  with Mr Js 
details. Mr J has signed this application.  Its not dated, but a stamp  on the paperwork 
indicates that the application was received in November 2004  (which is when the policy  
started). Its not clear  what  prompted  this application  but Lloyds say that it was sold during a 
meeting.
So taking everything in to account,  I think that Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr J and Miss S 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand  
why they cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr J and Miss S so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example Mr J wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J and Miss S about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN70486832This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J and Miss S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J and Miss S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr J and Miss S about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr J and Miss S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium before Mr J and Miss S took out a further 
advance. It has now agreed to pay back  any commission and profit share  that was above 
50% of the MPPI premium after Mr J and Miss S took out a further advance - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J and Miss S have said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr J and Miss S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr J and Miss S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7048683