K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a payment on his current  
account that he says he didnt make. Hed like this refunded.  And hes also unhappy 
NatWest closed his three  bank accounts.  
Background
Mr F had a current  and two savings accounts  with NatWest. 
On the 22 September 2018  a transaction of £1,754 was made  from Mr Fs account to an 
online trading  platform Ill call A. Mr F says he didnt  authorise this transaction. Mr F initially 
also disputed five other payments to online trading platforms and two ATM withdrawals in 
August 2019 but later recalled making these transactions.  
Mr F explained that hed previously used online trading platforms   but he didnt authorise 
this particular transaction to A. 
Mr Fs three  bank accounts  with NatWest were closed in October  2018.  On the 
11 October 2018 NatWest  reviewed  Mr Fs accounts, before giving 14 days notice to find 
new banking  arrangements and then closed  his accounts on the 29 October  2018.   
Mr F explained that he first noticed  the fraudulent transactions  when he went  overdrawn in 
September 2018, and via a representative then contacted the bank to dispute the 
transactions in October 2018. Mr F also complained  about his account closures. 
Mr F also complained that NatWest  closed his three bank  accounts on the 29 October  2018. 
NatWest investigated  but didnt uphold  his complaint. The bank said it couldnt rule out Mr F 
had authorised the transaction  so didnt refund the disputed transaction. And said theyd 
followed the terms of conditions of his accounts  when actioning  the closure.  
As Mr F didnt agree with NatWests decision he asked us to investigate. 
Mr Fs representative  argued that he doesnt keep up to date with his account  balance, the 
transactions are out of character  and inconsistent with his lifestyle 
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but wasnt able to conclude  that Mr F didnt 
authorise the disputed transactions. He thought  it more likely than not Mr F authorised the 
disputed transaction.  
Mr F didnt  accept our investigators opinion,  he said:
-He didnt trust a finance company Ill call C and thought they were using different 
companies to take his money  as evidenced by his bank statements. So hed 
advised NatWest  not to allow any more  payments to finance companies. 
-He believed the finance company had been hacking into his bank account, and had 
advised NatWest  of this. 
As Mr F didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN78525132My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr F liable  for the disputed  transaction  if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Fs genuine card and CVV were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest  to hold him liable. So I also need to think  about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr F consented  to the 
transaction being made.
-The disputed transaction was carried out using Mr Fs genuine card details. Ive 
thought about how someone  could have got hold of these details. Mr Fs explained  
that his card wasnt lost or stolen and at the time of the disputed transaction he was 
living on his own. Mr Fs proposed  that company  C has hacked  into his bank account  
and processed the transaction  without  his authorisation   Ive considered this, but 
Ive not seen any evidence to support this version  of events and I find it implausible. 
-Two days  prior to the disputed transaction, on the 20 September  2018, Mr F phoned  
NatWest to question  why a payment he attempted to make  to an online  trading  
platform hadnt been successful. I find it surprising  that two days prior to the disputed  
transaction Mr F attempted  a similar sized payment to a different online trading 
platform. 
-Mr F has a history  of using online trading platforms - In August 2018 he made  a 
number of high value payments to online trading platforms. Mr Fs representative has 
argued that the disputed transaction was out of character for Mr F, but I think  the 
evidence shows this isnt the case. 
Mr F responded to the view by saying hed asked  NatWest not to sanction any payments to 
C. Hes not provided any evidence to support this but the disputed  transaction wasnt made  
to C, so even if I thought  this had occurred I wouldnt have expected NatWest to block the 
transaction.
I understand that this will disappointing to Mr F but for the reasons Ive outlined above  I think 
its more likely than not he authorised  the disputed transaction. And it follows  NatWest are 
entitled to hold him liable for it. 
Account closure:
A bank  is entitled  to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But, before a bank  closes  an account it must  do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Fs account state  that there are certain circumstances in
which NatWest can immediately close his accounts.  Ive considered  whether  theyve  been  
applied fairly  in Mr Fs case, and Im satisfied they have.   
Ref: DRN78525133I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr F and I appreciate the closure  of his accounts 
caused him inconvenience. But NatWest  can make commercial decisions about who it offers
banking services to. They  cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can
decide they no longer want to do business  with individuals. Thats because they have the
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that
in Mr Fs case NatWest  exercised their commercial freedom legitimately when they decided 
to close his account.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7852513