K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with his contents home 
insurance claim following  a theft from his home,  and with the settlement paid to him.
background
Mr S made his claim  in January 2018.  Burglars  had broken into his property and stolen a 
number of items including some  designer  jackets and high value jewellery.  Ageas had 
concerns about  the claim and instructed loss adjusters  to carry out an investigation. Some 
delays were experienced while the police report was awaited.  
Ageas had particular  concerns over Mr Ss situation  and the circumstances of the burglary. 
In particular all the jewellery stolen and the designer  jackets  had been bought through a 
company owned  by Mr Ss son. It felt that the documents supplied didnt give credible 
evidence. After extensive investigations which included interviewing Mr S and his son, 
Ageas agreed  to pay part of the claim  for the items  excluding  the jewellery and the 
designer jackets. In respect of those items, it said it wasnt  satisfied that Mr S had given 
adequate proof of ownership. In respect  of the jewellery in particular it said it wasnt  satisfied 
that the items on the invoice from his sons company  accorded with those claimed for by 
Mr S. 
Ageas asked for further details  of Mr Ss sons company accounts, particularly its profit  and 
loss accounts  for the period when the jewellery was purchased and sold to Mr S. It received 
those further documents but wasnt satisfied  that they supported  or evidenced that part of 
the claim.  It pointed out that the invoice to Mr S, whilst purporting to include  VAT at 20% 
didnt have a VAT number  on it so wasnt valid. It also said that the companys assets  on the 
balance sheet werent sufficient to show  all the jewellery and clothes items bought and then 
sold to Mr S.
Mr S was also particularly upset that Ageas  had accused him and his son of falsifying the 
claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Mr S had provided  sufficient  evidence  
to show that he owned  the items  in dispute. So he said Ageas should reconsider the claim 
for the jewellery  and designer jackets.  He further  said it should pay £500 compensation.
Ageas disagreed, and the matter  has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There remains in dispute two sets of items  designer jackets  and jewellery. As a preliminary 
point, I understand  that Ageas has made  offers of settlement in respect of other items of 
clothing, although it has deducted  a percentage for depreciation. For items of clothing  it is 
entitled to do this. I appreciate that Mr S may not have been  aware  of the policy term 
concerning this but I can assure him that its a common term in most home insurance 
policies. So it didnt  need to be drawn specifically to Mr Ss attention. If hes dissatisfied  with 
the amounts ultimately decided he should  take it up further with Ageas.
Ref: DRN70617872designer jackets
Mr S hasnt produced  itemised receipts  for the jackets. He has however shown to Ageas 
charge card statements and photos  of the jackets being worn.
For the GT Jacket  the charge card shows £958 against the £975 claimed. I dont think that 
is a significant  difference.  I think its most  likely that this entry relates  to that jacket, so Ageas  
should reconsider this subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
The BG and BV jackets are claimed for respectively at £1,660 and £1,140 but are part of 
larger purchases on two credit card statements, so they arent itemised. But I bear in mind  
that Ageas has settled  other items of clothing  of a similar value. Mr S has also produced 
photos of the jackets being worn. Ageas should reconsider this subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
BnG Jacket  Mr S hasnt been able to produce  evidence of purchase  of this jacket. He has 
however produced photos of the jacket being worn,  so Ageas should be able to assess  the 
value of it. As Mr S has been able to evidence the bulk of the rest of his claim, and I consider 
the photo to evidence his ownership of the jacket, I think  it reasonable to say Ageas should  
reconsider this item.
jewellery
Mr S had produced  an invoice setting out the items bought, their value and the amount he 
paid for them.  He has also produced photos of a number  of the items being worn. The 
problem, from Ageas' point of view is that the invoice is from a company owned  by Mr Ss 
son. It asked Mr S for a lot more  detail relating to the invoices, and purchase receipts  were  
produced in respect of that companys purchase of a number of items of jewellery  some  of 
which were sold onto Mr S. Ageas noticed  discrepancies between those original invoices to 
the company and those to Mr S. Mr S said that was because  some of the items were  remade  
into items of jewellery for him. Ageas asked for further information, namely the profit  and 
loos accounts of the company but these didnt provide any more clarity.
I have to bear in mind  that when this claim started  out Ageas had very serious concerns 
about whether  it was genuine. But it has decided to settle the claim where  appropriate. It 
hasnt alleged that the invoice charged to Mr S is false. And Mr S has been able to back  up 
his claims for the jewellery with a number of photos. So the reason why I think  Ageas  is 
suspicious of the invoice is because it was supplied by Mr Ss sons company. If it were 
supplied by an independent jeweller  Ageas  clearly  wouldnt be able to go into that jewellers 
accounts.
I have noted that the invoice included VAT and didnt have a VAT number. This doesnt  
mean the invoice  isnt genuine  its just not a proper VAT invoice. 
So as it hasnt alleged  that the invoice is false (which would be an allegation of fraud)  I think 
Ageas should  reconsider  the jewellery part of the claim  based  on that invoice and the photos 
(and any other available  evidence) provided.
compensation
It took a long time for Ageas to decide it would pay out on the claim  over a year. And in the 
course of the investigation its loss adjuster directly accused Mr Ss son of being  involved in 
Ref: DRN70617873criminal offence  that of staging the burglary to make a false claim.  I know the allegation 
wasnt made directly to the policyholder,  Mr S, but it was clearly  implied  that he was 
involved. I know such investigations need   a robust  approach, but ultimately  as it hasnt 
formally alleged fraud as a reason for not paying  the claim, Ageas has to accept that making  
such allegations cause   a great  deal of distress. Also the investigation in my view dragged 
on much  longer than it should have. Our investigator  has proposed  that Ageas pays  Mr S 
compensation of £500 which I think is reasonable.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Mr Ss claim for the designer jackets and jewellery subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions  of the policy.
pay Mr S £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7061787