K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains that Allay Claims Ltd is charging  her a fee, following her successful 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  claim.
background 
Ms M submitted a request  for Allay  to complete a free PPI check for her online.  
A few months later Ms M received an invoice  from Allay. A bank had upheld Ms Ms 
complaint for mis-sold PPI and had offered her a settlement.  Allay  wanted Ms M to pay it a 
fee for submitting her complaint against  the bank on her behalf.
Ms M complained to Allay. She said she hadnt authorised it to make a claim for mis-sold 
PPI on her behalf.
Allay said she had given  authority  for it to pursue her PPI complaint. It sent her a copy of the 
letter of authority and terms of engagement it said she had signed  electronically on             
17 February 2019. It said she had agreed  to pay Allay 24% of the redress it recovered from 
the bank. 
Ms M brought her complaint to our service. She said she thought shed just given her details 
for Allay to check if she had PPI online.  She didnt know it was claiming for her. She thought 
she was doing  this herself. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2019,  where  I explained why intended to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.  In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms M says she didnt instruct Allay to pursue her PPI complaint. Allay  says she did, so Id 
expect it to provide  evidence that Ms M had given her consent for it to act on her behalf. 
Both sides agree that Ms M completed an online application for a free PPI check  in 
February 2019. Allay  has provided a copy of the letter of authority dated 17 February  2019,  
with what appears to be an electronic signature. On the second page  of the document is the 
terms of engagement.  Under important  information it says we will carry out a free PPI 
check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the 
lender following your instruction. Your instruction can be given by completing  the postal 
Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim  Questionnaire  online or over the telephone with 
Allay.
Ms M says she didnt give Allay any further  instructions following this. She says she received 
a form in the post but she didnt fill it in. 
Ref: DRN74835322Allay has sent us a copy of its computer records. Its noted it submitted a data subject 
access request to the bank in February  2019. On 11 March 2019 its noted  Client completed 
PPIQ via formstack, claim submitted. Its also sent us a copy of a PPI questionnaire  with  
Ms Ms details, but this is unsigned.  There are notes to suggest  Allay sent emails to Ms M on 
25 February and 11 March 2019.  But Ive asked Allay for copies  of these and it hasnt  
provided them. 
From what  Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that Ms M instructed Allay to submit her PPI 
complaint on her behalf. On 17 February 2019, she only agreed for Allay  to complete a free 
PPI check. Under  the terms of engagement, Ms M needed to give further  instructions to 
allow Allay  to submit her complaint after PPI had been found. This could be in the form of a 
postal questionnaire, an online claim questionnaire  or over the telephone. The notes suggest  
that Ms M may have completed  an online claim questionnaire on 11 March  2019. But Allay  
hasnt provided  copies of any emails  sent to Ms M around that time. So I cant see what  
might have prompted her to provide  further information, if this is what  she did. 
For Allay to fairly charge Ms M a fee it needed  to let her know  it had found PPI. Ms M would 
then have needed to provide further  information to allow it to pursue her PPI complaint. If  
Ms M did give further information  in the form of an online claim form, Allay should also have 
made it clear  to her that this is what she was doing.  Keeping in mind  that Ms M says she 
didnt authorise  Allay to pursue her claim following  the free PPI check, and as no evidence  
has been shown  to contradict this, I dont think this is likely to have been the case.
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable for Allay to charge Ms M a fee for recovering her 
mis-sold PPI if she hadnt instructed it to do so. So Im currently minded  to uphold her 
complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunities to respond with any further  information  or comments 
before I made my final decision.
responses
Allay supplied some further information for me to consider. It said Ms M was sent an 
automated email advising there was a valid PPI claim and that she needed to verify some 
details via a questionnaire, which Ms M then filled out. Allay sent us a template of the email 
which included a link to the online questionnaire.
At the bottom of the questionnaire it refers  to the terms of engagement and says: By 
submitting this form, you authorise Allay to submit  this information on your behalf with the 
Letter of Authority we hold on file. You agree for Allay to continue pursuing this claim for you. 
You understand that, alternatively,  you can do this yourself. And it gives an email address to 
cancel the service.
Allay said it couldnt  find any evidence to suggest Ms M was not clearly made aware of why 
it needed further information from her and that it was submitting claims on her behalf. It 
believed it was right to pursue Ms M for its fees as it had provided  a service which she 
requested, resulting in a win.
I shared the further information Allay  provided  with Ms M along  with a copy of the PPI 
questionnaire it had submitted on her behalf. 
Ref: DRN74835323Ms M said she didnt give Allay the authority to pursue her PPI claim.  Certain  details on the 
PPI questionnaire were  incorrect   such as her occupation and the reason for taking  out the 
loan. The only thing  she did was reply  to a PPI check via social  media. She didnt give any 
further information online or fill in documents posted  to her. Then months later she received  
a letter  from Allay saying  it had found  PPI and she owed it money.
I emailed Allay on 19 December 2019  and told it I was persuaded by what  Ms M said.  
Unless Allay could provide me with further information to persuade  me otherwise, I intended  
to reach  the same  conclusion Id set out in my provisional decision.  
I gave Allay until 9 January 2020  to provide any further comments  or information it would like 
me to consider, but it hasnt responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allay has sent us the wording of an email it says was sent to Ms M to let her know  it had 
found PPI and a link to the form it says she completed. But it hasnt provided the actual 
email it says was sent to Ms M. 
Ms Ms account of what happened has been consistent throughout. While she can 
remember requesting  a free PPI check via social media, shes adamant she didnt do 
anything else to authorise Allay to pursue  a claim on her behalf.  Ms M has also told us that 
some of the information  Allay sent to the business (in the PPI questionnaire) was incorrect. 
On balance, Im persuaded by what Ms M has said and I dont think  Allay  has done enough 
to show that she gave it her authority to pursue her claim. So, I dont think  its fair for Allay to 
charge Ms M a fee for pursuing her PPI claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive explained I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Allay  Claims Ltd to 
waive its fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7483532