K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Harvey & Thompson  Limited (H&T) is not offering  enough to cover the 
value of the jewellery she used to obtain a loan, and it subsequently misplaced.
Ms P has been assisted  by a family member in bringing the complaint to our service. For 
ease of reading, any reference  to Ms P includes contact  made  on her behalf. 
background
Last year Ms P took a loan out with H&T, secured against various items of jewellery.  She 
says the loan was to be repaid within six months.  In the fifth month Ms P says she returned 
to repay  the loan and collect her jewellery. She says she was then told that not all of the 
items could  be located and returned to her.
Ms P says H&T told her she wouldnt  be required to repay the original loan or the interest  on 
the missing items. She says it also offered her compensation to replace the items.  She says 
the amount offered was below the valuations she had obtained  from various jewellers. 
H&T says it accepted the loss of the jewellery and apologised to Ms P. It says it wrote  off the 
loan and apportioned interest,  in addition to offering  her compensation for the loss of the 
items.
It says it gave her two options by way of compensation.  The first was to pay her an 
additional sum of £11,580.64 - later increased to £12,079.29 to reflect the increase in the 
price of gold. The second option  was to replace the items with similar jewellery  of the same  
weight and carat from its retail stock. Both offers were  in addition to writing off the original 
loan and interest on the missing items.
Ms P says the valuations she obtained - from a number of different jewellers - to remake  the 
items, show  H&Ts offer is too low to replace all of the missing items. She didnt accept its 
offer and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think H&T needed  to do anything further because it had made a fair 
offer to Ms P to replace  her jewellery  or settle  in cash. H&T had also waived the loan and 
part of the interest  charged. And the total offer exceeded the highest, most recent valuation  
Ms P had provided to remake the jewellery.  
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators conclusion because she says H&T breached  the 
terms of the contract, havent  addressed all her concerns  and have offered considerably less 
than the valuations she provided. Her case has been passed  to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify that the figures  used in our investigators view were  less than the 
actual amounts offered by H&T. To clarify   the total loan and apportioned interest Ms P was 
not asked to repay was £11,328.84. This was made  up of the loan figure of £10,115.04 plus 
the apportioned  interest on the missing  items  of £1,213.80. So this would bring  the correct 
total offer to £23,408.13  (£11,328.84 plus £12,079.29). I can see that Ms P seems to be 
Ref: DRN77961902aware of this as she has quoted the correct loan and interest figure in her latest 
communication to us.
I acknowledge that Ms P may not have received all the answers to her initial  complaint, for 
example how the items of jewellery  went missing. But this is not something Im minded to 
require in order to resolve this dispute.  
I have looked  at the loan agreement terms provided by H&T and can see that its liable to 
pay the market value of the missing items at the time of the agreement.  Ms P says that the 
agreement has been breached. But voiding a contract would mean putting both parties back  
into the position they would have been  in if the contract hadnt been  entered  into. H&T have, 
in effect, done  this by writing off the original loan in full and also the apportioned interest.  
Ms P has had use of the loan and has not been  asked to repay  this sum or the apportioned 
interest. So I think this is a fair decision and H&T doesnt need to do anything more.
Whilst I sympathise that the lost items had sentimental value - especially as Ms Ps late 
father had gifted some of the items - I have thought  about how H&T calculated  the cash offer 
made. And I think it has done  this fairly.
I can see that the valuations provided by Ms P and H&T are not comparable.  The costings 
provided by Ms P give the amount it would cost to remake the items. H&T have offered a 
sum for the value of the gold at the time  and hasnt included  the cost of remaking the 
items. 
The most recent valuation  provided by Ms P says it would cost £19,935.00  to remake  the 
lost items. This shows me that even taking into account the increased  cost of gold, the total 
redress offered by H&T of £23,408.13, would  enable Ms P to commission  the items to be 
remade to the same standard and carat. I think the sum offered would enable Ms P to 
replace all the lost items, thereby putting her back into the position she was in before  the 
items were misplaced. And this is what I would expect to happen in this case. 
Ms P has also asked that H&T reimburse  her for two of the three valuations she obtained 
from jewellers. These valuations didnt  change my mind regarding  the offer made by H&T 
and for this reason I wont be asking them to pay for them.  
I can see how this has been  a stressful time for Ms P but taking into account the sum offered 
and the loan and interest  written off, I believe the total redress offered is fair. The sum is in 
excess of the amount  quoted in the highest  valuation to remake  all of the lost items. This 
shows me that the total amount of compensation is enough to commission replacements of 
all the lost items. So I think the offer is fair and reasonable and will not be asking H&T to do 
anything more.
my final decision
Harvey & Thompson Limited has already written off £11,328.84  and made an offer to pay 
£12,079.29 compensation. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Harvey & Thompson Limited  should pay Ms P £12,079.29.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
Ref: DRN77961903Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796190