K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  gave him incorrect advice which resulted in 
his credit score being reduced.
background
Mr H made  an application  for a Nationwide loan which was refused. He says he was told by 
a Nationwide  staff member that his unused credit on his credit  cards would be seen as a 
risk. Mr H reduced  his unused credit but says that meant his credit score reduced  which  has 
had an affect on his later credit applications.  He also complains that Nationwide gave him 
misleading information in its response to him.
Nationwide accepts giving misleading  information  in its letter to Mr H. Its offered Mr H £75 
compensation for that but says its loans are non-advised products and it was Mr Hs decision 
to reduce his credit.
Mr H had brought his complaint to us and says hes not complaining  about  the application 
being refused  but about the advice he was given and the impression Nationwide staff gave 
him.
Our adjudicator came to the overall view that Nationwide  had dealt fairly with Mr Hs 
complaint. He thought Nationwide had now confirmed the loan refusal was due to it being 
unaffordable and that it was Mr Hs decision to reduce  his credit and he could  have sought  
advice. The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide could reinstate Mr Hs credit  score in any 
event and also thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says he trusted Nationwides advice  and he made the 
decision to reduce his credit based  solely on that advice. He questions  why he should have 
considered taking advice from anyone else and says Nationwides letters about the 
compensation were  contradictory.
Mr H would like Nationwide to write to the Credit  Reference Agencies  (CRAs)  telling them it 
made a mistake,  apologise  to him and pay compensation  for whats  happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr H will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that Nationwide was entitled to reject  Mr Hs loan application. 
The issue  is what he was told by Nationwide after the loan was declined.  I have no reason to 
doubt a conversation did take place between Mr H and the Nationwide  staff member. And I 
have reason to doubt that Mr Hs unused credit  was discussed. But I dont think Mr H was 
given advice by Nationwide  to remove that unused credit. Im satisfied that Nationwide  
couldnt have  given formal advice as the loan itself was a non advised  product. Im also 
satisfied that Mr H has told us that he is complaining about  the advice and the impression it 
gave him following that conversation.  So I think it likely  that Nationwide  may have said that 
one of the factors for the refusal may have  been  unused credit.  And I think  it likely that, 
based on what Mr H has told us about  the impression it gave him, that he then decided  to 
reduce that unused  credit.
Ref: DRN79947032Im satisfied that it was Mr H that decided to reduce his unused  credit and that he wasnt  
given advice to do so by Nationwide. In those circumstances I cant fairly  hold Nationwide 
responsible for any credit  problems Mr H has experienced.  As Mr H knows  Nationwide  isnt 
responsible for his credit score and a variety of factors affect that score in any event. I 
appreciate Mr H says Nationwide should  write to the CRAs explaining  why his credit score  
reduced. But as I dont  think Nationwide has made  a mistake I cant  fairly order it to do so. 
I dont think Nationwides  letters to Mr H were  clear or consistent. Im satisfied they 
contained mistakes and gave contradictory information about  the compensation offer being 
in full settlement  of the complaint. I appreciate this isnt Mr Hs main complaint but Im 
satisfied Nationwide  has now apologised for this and offered what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer of £75. I accept in the circumstances that Mr H may not wish 
to accept that offer.
I appreciate that Mr H is likely to remain unhappy with my decision but this brings an end to 
what we, in trying to resolve  his dispute  with Nationwide informally,  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994703