K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) offer to settle his household insurance  
claim is too low. 
  
background
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs Hs home suffered an escape of water.  They claimed on their 
UKI household insurance policy. UKI have  agreed  to repair  the damage. But Mr and Mrs H 
want to use their own contractors, not UKIs. Its agreed to provide a cash  settlement so they 
can do that. But its only willing to pay them  what it would cost if it used  its own contractors.  
Mr and Mrs H say the amount offered, about  £6,500  including VAT, is too low. Its lower than 
the quotes they have received for the work  - including a detailed  schedule of works from a 
loss assessor (LA) thats representing them. He says the cost will be about  £15,000 plus 
VAT. They have quotes from other contractors that total about £9,000 plus VAT. 
Mr and Mrs H are concerned UKIs  intended to appoint contractors that will do the work  to a 
very poor quality. They also say UKIs  low settlement offer is forcing them  to use its 
contractors rather than their own. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint UKI refused  their request to provide a breakdown  
of its costs for the repairs.  It said they were  free to use their own contractors, but the policy 
terms meant it only had to pay them what it would pay its own suppliers.
   
Our investigator said the cash settlement offered  by UKI was fair. Mr and Mrs H didnt  accept 
that, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making UKI do 
anything differently.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy gives UKI the right to choose how to settle the claim.  The policy says 
it can choose to use its own suppliers to do the repairs. It also has the option to pay to use 
Mr and Mrs Hs own contractors. It can also make a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs H. They 
have complained that UKI is removing their choice. But the policy  doesnt  allow  them a 
choice. The choice  is UKIs. Thats reasonable as its paying  the claim - so its only fair it 
decides how it will be settled. 
The policy also says UKI wont  pay more (for a cash settlement) than it would have cost it to 
repair the damage using its own suppliers. Thats a reasonable term as insurers  often have 
relationships with suppliers that mean  they can get things for less than it would  cost a private 
individual. But its only fair for UKI to apply that term if its also offered to carry out an 
effective and lasting  repair.  
In this case UKI did offer to use its own suppliers. But Mr and Mrs H doubt its possible to do 
the work  to a reasonable standard for what UKI says it would pay its suppliers. They  have 
refused to allow UKIs suppliers to do the repairs. So Ive considered if UKI has offered to do 
an effective and lasting  repair   and so whether the amount its offered as a cash  
settlement is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN71664142UKIs provided a cost breakdown to this service. Im not going  to share it with Mr and Mrs H. 
UKI doesnt want that to happen as it says the costs  are confidential for commercial reasons. 
I think thats reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs Hs LA says his schedule of works  and UKIs  are broadly aligned on what needs  
doing. He says its just the cost that is so different. So Ive considered  the costs provided by 
UKI. Theres nothing in them that makes  me think it wasnt  intending to do a lasting and 
effective repair. Ive no reason to think it wouldnt  be able to do the repairs  to a reasonable 
standard.  
So I think UKIs made a fair and reasonable offer. I accept Mr and Mrs H say they cant get 
the repairs done for that amount. But UKI says if the settlement cheque  is returned or 
cancelled they can still use its contractors. If Mr and Mrs H then felt UKI hadnt provided a 
lasting and effective  repair  they could consider bringing a complaint to this service.   
There has been some delay with this claim. But its mainly down to disagreement  about  the 
settlement offer.  Ive said UKI didnt do anything wrong with that. That means I cant  fairly 
say its responsible. So Im not making it pay any compensation for delay.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making U K Insurance Limited do anything differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166414