K821x#15complaint
Mr W is complaining  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) hasnt covered a claim 
he made on his car insurance policy for the theft of his car.
background
In August  2017  Mr W took out a car insurance policy with Calpe. He took the insurance 
policy out through a broker. In July 2018,  Mr Ws car was stolen so he reported the matter  to 
Calpe to claim on his insurance  policy. Calpe subsequently learnt that Mr W had 
surrendered his licence in November  2017.  It said it was a condition of his insurance policy 
that he had to tell it, or his broker, that hed been disqualified from driving.  So it said the 
claim wasnt covered.
Mr W complained  to Calpe. He said he wrote to his broker to explain  that hed lost his 
licence. And he said that there were three other  people who were insured under the policy  
and continued  to use it. So he says its unfair Calpe declined his claim.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said that Mr W needed to tell Calpe if hed 
lost his licence.  And he was satisfied that Calpe would  have cancelled the insurance policy  
had he done so. He said that it was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure that Calpe was aware of 
the loss of licence. And he thought Mr W should  have  checked with Calpe, or his broker,  that 
it had received his letter.
However, the investigator thought that, given Calpe would have cancelled the policy  in 
November 2017,  it was treating the policy as if it had been declared  null and void from then.  
So he thought it should provide a refund of the insurance premium it would have given at the 
time had it would have  cancelled  the policy.
Both parties  didnt accept  the investigators opinion. Mr W said it was standard  practice for 
people to send  information in the post. He said he had a number of witnesses who saw him 
sending the letter. And he said he cant be held responsible  for the letter not arriving.
Calpe didnt think it should have to refund the premium. It said the policy wasnt cancelled,  
but lapsed at the end of the policy term. It said it was providing  insurance during the time 
and it would have  had to cover any claim  another party made  on the policy.
So the complaints  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to partially uphold this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute that theres  a condition in the policy that required Mr W to tell Calpe or his 
broker if he or any driver on the policy were disqualified from driving. And I dont think this is 
unreasonable, given the main user of the vehicle will inevitably have changed  following 
Mr Ws disqualification. I think  this is a significant  term of the policy  and I think  this should 
have been highlighted to Mr W outside of the term of the policy and Im not persuaded that it 
was. However, Mr W has told us that he tried to tell the broker  hed lost his licence, so Im 
satisfied that he was aware he was required to do so. So I dont think  hes lost out because it 
Ref: DRN75719122wasnt highlighted to him. The issue for me to decide in this case is whether he took 
sufficient steps to explain hed been disqualified from driving.
It was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure  that Calpe, or his broker,  were aware that hed been 
disqualified from driving. Ive not found Mr Ws testimony persuasive in respect to whether  
he sent the letter to his broker or not. Irrespective of this, I havent  seen  anything  to show 
that Calpe  was told hed been  disqualified.  Mr W will need to raise this with the broker 
separately if he thinks it acted unfairly. 
Ive taken Mr Ws comments into account about why he sent a letter rather than telephone 
his broker. But, as I said, it was his responsibility  to ensure the letter arrived. So Id have 
expected him to have either  sent the letter  by recorded delivery or for him to have 
telephoned his broker to check it had arrived, especially given  he didnt hear anything from 
either his broker or Calpe to confirm receipt of the letter. I dont think Mr W took sufficient 
steps (if any) to explain that hed been disqualified from driving. So Im satisfied that it was 
fair for Calpe to say he was in breach of the terms of his policy.
However, Calpe  has to show that the breach of the condition was material  to the loss  i.e. it 
has to show it wouldnt have been  insuring him had it been aware of Mr Ws disqualification. 
So I now need to think about what would have happened had Calpe been told of Mr Ws 
disqualification. Calpe  has provided  us with a copy of its underwriting  criteria. And there are 
two important issues to highlight here:
1.It doesnt insure drivers who are disqualified from driving;  and
2.The car must be owned  by the policyholder.
I think this clearly shows that the policy wouldnt  have continued  with Mr W as the 
policyholder once he was disqualified  from driving. It also shows that, given Mr W owned the 
car, Calpe wouldnt  have provided  the policy if Mr W wasnt the policyholder. So Im satisfied 
that Calpe  would have cancelled the policy had it been aware of Mr Ws disqualification. It 
follows, therefore, that Calpe wouldnt have been  insuring Mr W when the car was stolen had 
it known of the disqualification. So I think it was fair for it to not cover his claim.
However, given I think the insurance policy was effectively null and void from the date Mr W 
was disqualified from driving, I think Calpe should  assume the policy was cancelled from that 
date. And it should provide a refund of the insurance  premium in line with the terms of the 
policy to reflect this. I note that it says it would have had to cover and claim made by another 
party on the policy. But it would  have  been doing so under requirements by law, not the 
terms of the policy. And it could have looked  to recover those costs from Mr W or whoever 
caused his loss. So this doesnt change my opinion on this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide a refund of the insurance premium  in 
line with the terms  of the policy on the basis the policy  was cancelled from the date Mr W 
was disqualified from driving. It should pay 8% simple interest per year on this from the date 
Mr Ws car was stolen  until he gets it back. If it thinks its required to deduct tax from this 
interest it should give Mr W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off.
Ref: DRN75719123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7571912