K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr G between  September  
and November 2014. The outstanding  debt from the second loan (loan  2) was sold onto a 
third party. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  neither  of the loans  should  have been 
given because Mr G had other outstanding short-term loans when he took out loan 1. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with this and said it had done robust checks  on Mr G before lending  to 
him. It also said that although  Mr G had other  short-term loans around the time, he took out 
his first loan,  there was nothing to suggest he was struggling financially.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN71902612I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
Uncle Buck  did checks on Mr Gs income and expenditure and his credit reports  before it lent 
him loan 1. But from the information those checks showed, Uncle  Buck ought to have 
realised that Mr G wouldnt  have been  able to make his repayments  for loan 1 sustainably 
without taking out more lending. 
I can see that Uncle Buck has provided  copies of the credit reports to us. Having reviewed 
these reports, I dont think Mr G was able to repay  these loans. The reports  from the credit 
checks show Mr G had borrowing from other  short-term lenders and the repayments  to these 
lenders were  increasing his monthly outgoings.  I think this was a clear indication  that Mr G 
was in a debt cycle and relying upon  borrowing  to repay borrowing. So, Im also upholding 
the complaint  about both loans. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do 
The outstanding balance  due on Mr Gs loan has been transferred to a third party.  
Uncle Buck  should  buy the loan back if it can. If Uncle Buck cant buy the loan back  than it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework loan 2 applying all payments made  by Mr G as if they went  towards the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Uncle Buck needs to make  sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If the amount  Mr G has paid exceeds the amount he was lent, any further amounts 
paid should be treated  as overpayments. Any overpayments that may have been 
made should be refunded to Mr G with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Mr G.
Ref: DRN71902613remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2. 
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr G still has an outstanding balance due on loan 2 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Uncle Buck of its obligation to treat Mr G fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint.  Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7190261