K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with CIGNA Europe  Insurances Company SA-NVs decision to decline her 
travel insurance claim. 
background
Mrs P had travel insurance  with CIGNA.  In July 2018, whilst on a cruise, she sadly  injured 
her right leg and was unable to walk unsupported  thereafter due to the pain. Mrs P said she 
was unable to leave her cabin for nine days and therefore would like CIGNA to reimburse  
her for the loss. She also said she missed  out on four ports of call, two of which were the 
main reason  she booked  the cruise to begin with. 
CIGNA said it had declined Mrs Ps claim fairly based on the evidence  it had seen from the 
treating medical  professionals.  
Our investigator said that because there  was no medical evidence  to suggest Mrs P was 
confined to her cabin, she didnt think CIGNA had declined the claim unfairly. Mrs P didnt 
agree for mainly the same  reasons  already  given  and so its for me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mrs Ps strength of feeling  here, particularly as she had booked this trip 
with the view to visit certain  places  she had always wanted to see. But I have to consider 
whether CIGNA acted  fairly when  it rejected  her claim and having  carefully  considered this, I 
believe it did. Ill explain why. 
The relevant  part of Mrs Ps policy is;
We will reimburse  you in respect of loss of travel and accommodation  expenses
paid or contracted to be paid consequent on your holiday being  necessarily  and
unavoidable curtailed by:
1. Accidental injury, illness or death of:
a) you or any person with whom  you had arranged to travel
Its not in dispute  that Mrs P fell and injured herself  on 19 July. I can also appreciate that this 
is likely  to have caused her some pain and discomfort. Mrs P said the pain was so much that 
she was unable to walk without a Zimmer frame and therefore confined  to her cabin. This 
essentially forms the basis  of her claim and is the reason she was unable to enjoy the 
remainder of her trip. 
To be clear, Ive carefully  considered what Mrs P has told us, alongside the medical 
evidence gathered by the medical staff on board.  Mrs P was visited by the on board doctor a 
couple of days  after the incident  as shed reported being  in pain and unable to walk.  The 
treating doctor completed an examination and was unable to identify any substantial injury 
as the cause for this. The report confirms that shed not broken anything  or caused herself a 
serious injury. 
Ref: DRN74996162Mrs P was regularly visited by staff to check she was ok. It was during one of these visits 
that she explained shed rather stay in her cabin because of her leg. But I also note that staff 
reassured her she was not medically confined to the cabin and was free to leave  at any 
point. The reason being that the on board doctor had completed  an assessment of Mrs P 
and found no reason  why this should be the case.
I take on board Mrs Ps argument  that she wasnt physically up to leaving her cabin, but the 
medical evidence  suggests there was no reason why she wouldnt be able to. And for 
CIGNA to consider  paying  Mrs Ps claim in line with the policy  terms, itd need to see that it 
was medically necessary  for Mrs P to be confined to her cabin. As this was not the case, I 
dont think its declined  her claim unfairly. I also note Mrs P had an X-ray  when  she returned 
home and this found nothing to reasonably explain the pain shed experienced  which  is 
consistent with the on board doctors  assessment.   
There were a number of other issues Mrs P raised about the way she was treated  whilst on 
board, as well as the competence of the doctor who had assessed  her. But these are all 
complaints about  the cruise operator  itself and bare no relation to how CIGNA handled her 
claim and so I make no finding  on these  points. CIGNA must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. Given the evidence  suggested there  was no medical reason Mrs P was unable  to 
leave her cabin, I think it assessed her claim fairly.  
I note Mrs P was offered some pain relief  which she initially declined  as she was concerned 
about masking her symptoms. That, of course,  was up to Mrs P to decide. But I think its 
likely she added to the overall discomfort she experienced and extended the period she 
reported being incapacitated  for
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 April 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7499616