K820x#14complaint
Mr P complaints about a letter he received from Santander UK Plc.
background
In 2018 Mr P received a letter from Santander. It was headed  Important Information in red. 
And it suggested Mr P call a telephone number or visit his branch to discuss it. But Mr P 
didnt think the letter applied to him - he didnt recognise the account it referred to. Mr P said 
it would  be a long drive if he had to visit his branch. And he didnt have a passport or 
photocard licence to confirm his identity. So the whole trip wouldve been a waste  of time.  
The letter didnt say how much  the call would cost. So he was concerned  it might  be a scam.
Mr P said he had an account with Santander  in the past.  And he wondered  if the letter was a 
ploy to sell more of its products to customers. He felt the onus should  be on Santander  to tell 
him about changes  to its accounts  not for Mr P to have to call the bank. So hed like an 
apology from Santander.
Santander confirmed  the letter was genuine. It had written to customers with an everyday 
current account to confirm changes to the fee structure. Itd asked customers to contact  the 
bank to make sure they were aware  of the changes  and to answer any questions they might 
have. Santander  said Mr P had an everyday current account. Hed held it since 2009. 
However it accepted  itd made mistakes on his address on two occasions and apologised for 
the errors.  Santander  said the 0800 number was free to call and it had a duty to notify 
customers of any changes. 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with Santanders  response. So he contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could see Mr P thought his account had been closed 
by Santander  in 2016 because it was inactive. But it seemed Santander had kept it open  
because some mail had been returned. He appreciated  the concern the letter had caused  
Mr P. But he could  see the bank had apologised  and offered Mr P £75 for any distress and 
inconvenience. And he felt that was a fair response.  
Mr P didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  He felt the tone of the 
letter and use of red lettering  was alarmist. And hed been informed his account would be 
closed in 2016. Mr P had received other correspondence about  a different account. So why 
would this account have been  marked with a returned mail flag when Santander  was still 
contacting him about the other products he held.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps concerns. He is right to be wary of unsolicited  calls, letters and 
messages. And hes unhappy with the style and approach of Santanders letter about an 
account which he thought had been closed a few years earlier. So Ive looked  carefully  at 
everything Mr P has said and the responses Santander has given. As our adjudicator  has 
responded to a number of the issues raised, I will concentrate on the matters which  are 
important to this decision.
Ref: DRN70672712The complaint arose  because  of a letter Mr P received from Santander. But it was about an 
account Mr P thought  had been closed  a few years ago. So I do understand Mr Ps 
frustration about  how this matter as evolved.
When Santander sent Mr P a letter  in 2016  his account hadnt been  used  for some time. And 
the balance was only 10 pence. So Santander said it would be closing the account if it didnt 
hear anything from Mr P. And it would give the balance to charity. As Mr P has pointed out, 
that should have been the end of it. The letter had said if youre  happy  for us to do this, you 
dont need to do anything. Mr P didnt respond  so as far as he was concerned  the account 
had been closed.
But Santander then placed a returned mail marker  on the account. Something had gone 
wrong with the delivery of Mr Ps correspondence. Santander couldnt be sure Mr P knew  
about the intended account closure - so it kept the account open. But it didnt send 
Mr P any more  account statements because it wasnt sure about  the address details. And it 
didnt want to send  Mr Ps statements to the wrong  person.
When the overdraft  fees were changed in 2018  Santander sent a letter  to all of the 
customers who had that type of account. And Mr P received a letter which he found both 
confusing and alarmist.  The letter  was headed please call us about an important change  to 
your current  account. And it used  red type which concerned Mr P.
Ive looked at Santanders correspondence with Mr P. And I can understand how he mustve  
felt. The letter was fairly generic. Mr P didnt even  think he had an account any more, so why 
would he be concerned about important  changes to it. And the letter  didnt actually say what  
the changes were. It just asked Mr P to either call a number or visit his branch with some 
form of identification.
I can see Santander has corrected Mr Ps address on its records. And its explained that 
Mr Ps other products are held on a different  platform. So unfortunately it couldnt reference  
the returned mail against the address it had for his other Santander products.
Santander has said it will look at Mr Ps comments to see if it can improve how it contacts 
customers. And I think thats  a fair response. Its not the role of this service  to tell banks how 
to run their businesses. Thats the role of their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But 
I agree  its important that banks are able to contact customers  in a manner which clearly 
states what they are writing about, but in a way that doesnt show too much customer  
information in case the letter goes astray.
Im sure Santander recognises that not every customer  has a passport or driving  licence. 
And banks  provide a list of alternative  documents they consider suitable to confirm a 
persons identity. But I do recognise the inconvenience Mr P faced having to visit a branch 
over 10 miles  away  or call a number that didnt state the cost of doing so. And the letter 
didnt explain why Mr P actually needed to get in touch with Santander.
Mr P says he feels the tone of Santanders letter is too casual and also alarmist. It couldve 
taken a different  approach if it wanted to update him. And he feels it should be for Santander 
to tell him about  important information   not to tell him to get in touch and find out what it is. 
But, as Ive mentioned,  its not the role of this service to tell Santander how to run its 
business. Our role to see if Santander  has made any mistakes - and if it has, what  it needs  
to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN70672713Santander has explained the sequence  of events that led to Mr Ps account  not being  closed  
in 2016 and why that led to the confusion when it wrote to him again  in 2018. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Santander  hasnt followed its procedures properly. 
Santander has apologised for its mistakes. But I do think  the bank should also compensate 
Mr P for the trouble  and upset its caused him. The bank has accepted it made  mistakes  on 
his address when  writing  to Mr P. And its offered £75 compensation for any distress or 
inconvenience caused. Santander  has also explained it no longer sends small balances to 
charity but its happy to send him the remaining amount if Mr P still wishes to close  the 
account. 
I do understand Mr Ps frustration. And why he feels Santander provided a poor service  in 
not closing his account in 2016  and then sending a generic letter  in 2018 which caused 
him to worry  it might  be fraudulent. And I hope the bank  will take note of Mr Ps comments  
when contacting customers so that it doesnt  cause unnecessary alarm. 
But, based on everything Ive seen, I think Santanders apology and offer of £75 
compensation for any trouble and upset is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. And I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7067271