K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs H took out an PPI policy in 2000 which was added to her existing mortgage. The policy  
covered Mrs H for up to 24 months if she was unable to work due to being too unwell to work  
or becoming  unemployed. And she paid a monthly  amount for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  so the 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mrs H and Halifax.  During that meeting Halifax 
should have made Mrs H aware she had a choice in buying  the policy. 
Neither Halifax nor Mrs H have much paperwork from the time of sale.  I dont think thats  
surprising, given that the policy was sold over 20 years ago. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is likely to have happened, given  
the information I do have and the broader  circumstances.
Halifax has been able to provide a copy of Mrs Hs PPI application form. The form contains 
information about Mrs Hs employment  and answers to a number of questions about  her 
health. The form is pre-printed with these details.  I think a conversation took place between  
Mrs H and Halifaxs employee  and the form has been completed based on what was 
discussed and printed  out for Mrs H to read and sign. And Mrs H signed the form, so I think  if 
there was anything contained  on the application  she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed  to, 
she would  have had the opportunity to question it at the time.  
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature would have been  made  clear. Also, this policy was added  to Mrs Hs existing 
mortgage so I think  she would have known it wasnt part of the process of obtaining  the 
lending. And nothing Mrs H have told me makes me think Halifax didnt follow its normal  
process here. 
So overall, I think its more likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs H she had a choice about the 
PPI, and she agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mrs H. So, it had to check it was right for her. 
Ref: DRN79767892Looking at Mrs Hs circumstances she seems  to have had a need for the cover.  Mrs H 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs H says she didnt have any sick pay benefits  from her employer. And she didnt have 
any other means  such as savings  to make  her mortgage repayments.  So, it seems  she 
had a need for the policy. Mrs H had borrowed funds against  a large and long-term  financial 
commitment on her own, which  was secured on her home. So, I think  having  the security  
that her mortgage repayments would be made if Mrs H was unable to work  would have  been  
important to her. Especially in the absence  of her having any other  means of making those 
repayments and that she was solely responsible for the monthly repayments. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But Mrs H chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained 
above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mrs H off taking out the cover. And overall, I dont think Mrs H have 
lost about by anything Halifax might have  done  wrong. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But Halifax 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mrs H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN79767893Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7976789