K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) shouldnt have granted  him finance 
(for a static caravan) because he wasnt, at the relevant time, resident in the UK.
background 
In March 2018 Mr B entered  into a hire purchase  (HP) agreement  with Black Horse  (for a 
static caravan). At the same time he and his wife entered into a holiday home purchase 
agreement (purchase agreement) and a pitch licence agreement  (pitch agreement)  with a 
company that I will call P. P arranged the finance (on behalf  of Mr B) with Black Horse.
The cost of the static caravan (inclusive) was £21,482, of which £17,082 was financed  by 
way of the HP agreement with Black Horse.
The HP agreement  was for £350.93  a month for a term of five years,  making the total sum 
repayable £21,055.80  (capital of £17,082 and interest of £3,973.80). 
At the time of entering the HP agreement Mr B says that he and his wife werent resident in 
the UK so the finance shouldnt have been granted to him.
Black Horse  issued Mr B with a final response letter (FRL) in November 2018. In this letter 
it said, in summary, that Mr B had declared  on the HP agreement  a UK address and that:
checks undertaken by it show Mr B as being on the voters roll at his declared  
address since 2011
checks undertaken by it show Mr B had other financial products registered  at his 
declared address
Mr Bs driving licence bears the declared address and this was issued after Mr B 
says he ceased  to be resident in the UK
And because of this it believed  it had acted entirely  appropriately  in granting the finance that 
it did.
Mr B, for a number of reasons, didnt agree with Black Horses  FRL and asked for his 
complaint to be considered by our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that it shouldnt  
be upheld. In his view Mr B was resident in the UK at the time he entered  into the HP 
agreement and therefore Black Horse  had done  nothing wrong  in granting him the finance 
on the grounds of residency.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and so his complaint was passed  to me for 
review and decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2019. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN77023732Its clear Mr B has very strong feelings about this complaint.  He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I acknowledge that Mr B has raised  two complaints with our service, this one against  
Black Horse  and a second against  P, the business  that arranged  the finance on his behalf 
with Black Horse and with whom  he (together  with his wife) entered into a pitch  and 
purchase agreement.
Under Section  56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 a credit  broker (in this case  P) acts as an 
agent of the finance provider (in this case Black Horse). So Black Horse  is responsible  for 
what P did, or failed  to do, in arranging  the finance. Therefore I think its entirely  appropriate 
and reasonable for me to consider Mr Bs two complaints about the arrangement of the 
finance against Black Horse and P as one complaint against Black Horse.
Based on what Mr B, Black  Horse and P have said and provided (in particular an email from 
the caravan sales  manager dated 26 March 2018) Im satisfied that P knew, at the time the 
finance was arranged, that:
Mr B was living abroad
Mr B was unable to produce a council tax bill
The address  provided  on the finance  agreement was Mr Bs daughters address
So this leads  me to conclude  that P was wrong to record  on the finance application 
(submitted to Black Horse for underwriting and approval) Mr Bs current  address as being  his 
daughters UK address  and recording no previous address  for him.
However, that doesnt mean Mr Bs complaint  should be upheld  and that Black Horse  should 
have to unwind  the finance  agreement, in line with what Mr B is seeking by way of 
compensation.
I accept I cant  say for certain  whether Black Horse would have accepted or declined Mr Bs 
finance application had his address been  recorded as being  one that was outside the UK. 
This is in part because I dont know how Black Horse defined  a UK resident in March 2018. 
But I need make  no finding on this point  because in my view the position Mr B now finds  
himself in is due to him having breached his pitch and purchase agreement with P, by 
staying in the caravan longer than these agreements allow and because he has been unable  
to provide proof of residence  elsewhere. Its not as a result  of any error in the arrangement 
of the finance  by P, or as a result  of Black Horses  decision to lend,  or the status of Mr Bs 
residency. Furthermore,  I think  its worth  pointing out that Black  Horse isnt saying  Mr B is, 
because of residency  status, in breach of his finance agreement.
Ref: DRN77023733I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed,  but in my view I dont think  it would be either  fair 
or reasonable to direct Black Horse to unwind the finance agreement or to pay Mr B anything  
by way of compensation for the position  he now finds himself in.
Black Horse  responded  to my provisional decision to say that it had nothing  further to add.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision say that he didnt agree with it. In summery he 
said that the finance shouldnt have been approved because of a number  of issues he had, 
and would have  going forward, in meeting the requirements of the pitch agreement  with P.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont under estimate Mr Bs strength of feeling over the arrangement with P of the pitch 
agreement and what he says was his inability at the time, and going forward, to meet  the 
requirements of it. But the arrangement of Mr Bs pitch agreement  isnt something Ive the 
power to consider a complaint about, whether against Black  Horse or P. This is because  the 
arrangement of the pitch agreement isnt an activity covered under our rules.  
What I do have the power to consider a complaint about, and have considered, is the 
approval of the finance by Black Horse  (arranged by P) for the caravan.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but I remain  of the view for the reasons 
given in my provisional  decision  that the position Mr B now finds himself in is due to him 
having breached his pitch (and purchase  agreement) with P, by staying in the caravan 
longer than these  agreements  allow and because he has been unable  to provide proof of 
residence elsewhere. Its not as a result any error in the arrangement of the finance by P, or 
as a result  of Black Horses decision to lend.
my final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited  need do nothing  to settle this complaint.
My final decision represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure.  
Mr B doesnt  have to accept my decision,  and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue 
legal action against Black  Horse  Limited  or P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7702373