K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI). He isnt happy about  the increase 
in premium on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr S brought a car back from Ireland and had to get it insured before he could register  the 
car in the United  Kingdom (UK). He accepted  that his options  were limited at that point in 
time and was happy with the quote he got from UKI.
When the car was registered in the UK Mr S sold the car and bought  a newer  vehicle. When 
he placed this on cover, he was charged  about  £150 more in premium. But Mr S expected 
his premium to fall at that time, but it didnt.
When the policy came up for renewal  the following year, he managed  to get cover  for less 
than half the price UKI had offered. So, Mr S complained to UKI and then this service.  He 
thought this emphasised that he had been overcharged.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He was satisfied 
that UKI hadnt  done anything wrong.  It had provided evidence showing that the main 
reasons for the increase in premium was due to; the higher insurance group  rating;  the fact 
that his new car was 8 years newer;  that it was a 4x4; and the fact that it was a new car that 
he wasnt used to driving.
As Mr S didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
Mr S has outlined  that his options were limited when  he looked to take out cover  for the car 
he was bringing  back to the UK. He accepts  that the market place was limited  as only a few 
insurers would provide cover in these circumstances and he was happy with the price 
quoted then and now. But he feels that the cost of this insurance must have been  inflated as 
the car wasnt registered in the UK at that point in time and he feels that the car was insured  
using its chassis number.
However, UKI have  shown that they simply offered cover  on the make and model of car at 
that point and didnt rely specifically on the chassis number. I know  Mr S disputes  this, but I 
havent seen anything to suggest otherwise.  UKI has provided various pieces of information, 
including commercially  sensitive details, showing that the new vehicle simply  changed the 
risk factors  and so the premium. Just because Mr S has managed  to get cover  at a 
significantly lower price  now doesnt  mean that UKI has done anything wrong or over priced  
its insurance deliberately.
As Mr S was happy with the original level of insurance (although  he accepts he bought this 
through a reduced market place) I cant say that UKI has acted unreasonably when the 
premium went  up after he changed his car. This is because the premium went up after Mr S 
bought a car that was more powerful,  significantly  newer, had an increased insurance group 
Ref: DRN73430392rating (nine  groups higher) and was an increased  risk as it was a new car (amongst other 
things). 
I know Mr S doesnt accept this as he got cover for a lot less upon renewal. But that doesnt 
mean UKI didnt act fairly  and Im satisfied (from  the evidence before me) that Mr S hasnt 
been treated any differently to any other consumer in a similar position. 
Although I accept that Mr S couldnt  shop  around  to the same  degree when he first took out 
insurance (due to importing the car and the import market place being  more expensive) he 
isnt complaining about this, only when he bought the new car. And I accept he was free to 
shop around at renewal  as he didnt have an imported car at that stage. So, Im sure that he 
gained a far more  competitive price. But if this was a concern to Mr S when he placed his 
new car on cover (only a short while after he had initially taken cover), he was free to cancel 
his policy  with UKI, pay a cancellation fee and shop  around at that stage if he wished.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7343039