K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms V have  a mortgage account  with The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc and complain
that it misled  them about assistance  during  their financial difficulty.
background
In February 2019,  I sent both parties  my provisional  decision  in this case, an extract of which  
is attached and forms part of my final decision. So, I wont repeat the background here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt propose to uphold Mr B and Ms Vs 
complaint. RBS said that it had nothing further  to add. Mr B responded in some length.  In 
summary, Mr B said:
RBS had tampered with the recordings of his phone calls with it.
There was nothing  unusual about  a 12 month  payment break.
RBS has deliberately withheld the recording of the phone call in which  it told him that a 
12 month  payment break was an option.  
RBS said that they didnt have to take up the offer immediately and if they borrowed 
from family  and friends it would give them  time to make up their minds,  so RBS caused 
them to incur  debt with family and friends.
RBS has deliberately withheld the recording of the February 2018 phone call. 
They wanted the options in writing to help them  make a decision and in order  to get advice. 
They were  harassed for repayment.
We asked RBS for its response  to Mr Bs assertion that it had withheld  or tampered with 
recordings of his phone calls to the bank. RBS said that it was unable  to edit call recordings 
in any way.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In this decision, Im dealing with the complaint Mr B made to the bank in his letter  of 
23 February 2018, to which the bank gave its final response on 5 April 2018. I appreciate  
that Mr B is now concerned about how the bank has handled  the recordings of his phone 
calls but as that wasnt part of his original  complaint,  I cant  deal with that here. In addition,  
given that these recordings were provided in response to a subject access request, the 
Information Commissioners Office  might be a more  appropriate  body to consider any such  
complaint.
I havent seen  or heard  anything that enables me to conclude that RBS offered Mr B the 
option of a 12 month payment holiday or deliberately withheld the phone call in which  Mr B 
says it offered that. I remain  of the view that its unlikely  that RBS made  that offer. As I said 
in my provisional decision,  even if I concluded  that RBS did offer Mr B a 12 month payment 
break, that was a mistake, as it was contrary to its policy. So, I wouldnt ask RBS to provide 
Mr B and Ms V with a 12 month payment holiday  now. 
It was ultimately Mr B and Ms Vs decision  to borrow from friends  and family. I dont think 
that RBS is responsible for that, even if it introduced the concept.  
Ref: DRN78646212Ive listened to the recording of the phone calls in February 2018, which  RBS made  available  
to Mr B in response to his subject access request. Im afraid  I dont agree that the call 
handler was biased, obstinate or unfair.  Mr B was clearly annoyed and exasperated in those 
calls but I think that the call handler dealt with him fairly. 
As Ive said,  as the arrears are continuing  and theres no arrangement  in place, I dont  think  
it was unfair  for RBS to contact Mr B and Ms V about the situation. Mr B and Ms V should  
contact RBS about their options.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B and Ms V but for the reasons  set out above  and in my 
provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold their complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78646213extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B and Ms V have  a mortgage account  with The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc and complain 
that it misled  them about assistance  during  their financial difficulty.
background
In August 2017, Mr B contacted RBS about financial difficulties. RBS told him that it couldnt  
help until they had missed a payment.
In September  2017, Mr B contacted RBS again.  He says that it offered him a payment 
break for 12 months,  followed  by a plan to repay  the arrears. Mr B and Ms V say that they 
didnt take that offer up at the time, as they asked  family and friends  for help.
In February 2018,  Mr B contacted RBS and it refused to proceed  on the basis  of 
Mr Bs suggestions and didnt accept that it previously offered  a payment break for 12 
months.
Mr B and Ms V complain  that RBS didnt write to them setting out their options, as Mr B had 
asked it to do. They want RBS to honour  its offer of a payment break for 12 months and 
then a repayment plan in relation to the arrears.  Mr B and Ms V suggest that RBS increase 
the term of the mortgage  by one year. They  also want a written apology from RBS.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that RBS had treated Mr B and Ms V unfairly. He said 
the recording of the phone call in which Mr B says he was offered a payment break 
for 12 months isnt available. The adjudicator  thought it was likely  RBS told Mr B that 
was an option  but he thought that was a mistake on RBSs part, as it doesnt offer 
that arrangement.
The adjudicator said that in February 2018,  RBS gave  Mr B correct information about  
possible arrangements,  which  included a payment break for three months. He said that 
RBS had correctly  applied its policy and he thought it was reasonable that it wanted  to 
review things after three  months. So, he didnt ask RBS to offer Mr B and Ms V a payment 
break for 12 months.
The adjudicator said that RBS sent Mr B a summary of his options,  at his request. He 
said that, as the letter simply confirmed what was said in the phone call, Mr B would have 
been aware of the options, whether he received  the letter or not.
Mr B didnt  agree with the adjudicator and asked  that an ombudsman consider the complaint. 
He responded  in some length,  which I wont  set out here. In summary, Mr B said:
The adjudicator said that RBSs call handler made a mistake,  so he should have found 
in their favour.
It wasnt the case that they wanted to avoid entering into an arrangement in order 
to avoid negative  entries  on their credit files  they were exploring their options.
Mr B didnt contact the bank again  until February  2018, as he thought  the option of a 12 
month payment break was still open  to them.
Ref: DRN78646214If RBS hadnt told him that the 12 month  payment break was an option, he wouldnt 
have borrowed  money from family  and friends.
RBS didnt  send him a letter on 8 February  2018  and there was no letter of that date 
in the documents he received from RBS after a subject access  request.
The member  of RBSs  staff with whom he spoke on 8 February  2018  was biased, 
obstinate and acted unfairly.
He wanted to see his options  in writing so that he could take financial advice.
Hes received  a lot of e-mails, calls and texts about the arrears.
The adjudicator didnt mention the disputed  mortgage balance.
He wants compensation  for their time, distress and inconvenience.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable that Mr B and Ms V have very strong feelings about this 
matter. Theyve  provided detailed submissions to support their complaint. Ive read through 
all this carefully and taken it all into consideration when  making  my decision. I trust that they 
wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
A bank must  deal fairly with consumers in financial difficulty. This includes making 
reasonable efforts to reach  an acceptable repayment plan with its customers.
When Mr B first approached RBS about financial difficulties, it effectively said that it 
couldnt help him until theyd missed  a repayment.  Wed expect a lender to treat customers  
who are, or are expecting to be, in financial difficulties  fairly.
I dont think that it was fair to delay  assisting Mr B and Ms V until theyd missed  a 
repayment. That conclusion is consistent with RBSs policy,  which applies to customers  with 
no mortgage arrears but who are identified as being in financial difficulties. So, I think RBS 
should have proceeded  to help Mr B and Ms V at that stage. That would have involved 
establishing the extent of their financial difficulty and discussing a way forward.  RBS didnt 
do that but I dont  think that materially affected  the outcome in this case. Thats  because  
Mr B contacted RBS again a month later.
Theres a dispute  about what was said when  Mr B contacted RBS in September  2017. 
Mr B says that RBS told him that one of his options  was a 12 month payment break.  RBS 
says it wouldnt have  told him that, as its not consistent with its policy.
Where things are not clear, or in dispute,  I make  my findings on what  I think is most likely to 
be the case. I take into account the evidence thats available  to me and the wider  
surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN78646215The recording of the relevant phone call in September 2017 isnt available, so its 
impossible for me to know with any certainty  what RBS told Mr B about  his and Ms Vs 
options. I think  it would  be unusual for RBS to offer Mr B a 12 month payment break as that 
wasnt consistent with its policy.  And thats a long time for arrears to accrue. RBSs written  
notes of that conversation dont include a reference to offering a 12 month payment break. 
Considering everything, I dont think I can safely conclude that RBS told Mr B that a 12 
month payment  break was an option.
Even if I came to a different view about  that, it wouldnt  result in me directing RBS to agree a
12 month payment  break. Thats because it would have been a mistake  on RBSs  part. 
When mistakes  like this happen, we dont direct  the bank to proceed on the basis  that the 
incorrect information is true. We look to see what effect the incorrect information had  what  
position the consumer would have  been in had the consumer been given the correct 
information. Here, Mr B says if RBS hadnt told him they could have a 12 month payment 
break they wouldnt have borrowed money from family and friends and would have chosen 
a different route.  But its not clear to me how that would have altered the outcome here.
RBS isnt able to provide the recording of the phone call in February  2018. So, theres 
nothing to support Mr Bs recollection  that the call handler was biased, obstinate  and unfair.
Ive seen from RBSs  notes that in February 2018, the call handler prepared  the contents  of 
a letter  about  Mr B and Ms Vs options.  I havent seen any evidence to show that RBS sent 
that letter. Mr B says he didnt receive  the letter hed asked for. At this distance,  I cant know 
for sure whether  RBS sent the letter confirming the options available to Mr B and Ms V. But 
Mr B knew from the phone call what his options were. I appreciate  that Mr B now says that 
he wanted the letter in order to get financial advice but he didnt need the letter in order to 
get further help.
I dont think it was unfair  for RBS to continue  to contact Mr B and Ms V about arrears. I 
appreciate that was worrying for them  but as no arrangement is in place, its appropriate for 
RBS to contact them.
Mr B says that he disputes  the amount of the mortgage balance. The adjudicator  didnt 
mention that, as it wasnt part of Mr B and Ms Vs original complaint to RBS.  We can only 
consider matters that have first been raised with RBS,  so that it has an opportunity to 
respond to the complaint.  If Mr B and Ms V wish to complain about the balance  of the 
mortgage, they should complain to RBS about that in the first instance.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B and Ms V but I dont  think that there are any grounds on which 
to direct RBS to agree a 12 month payment  break.  Whilst I think  that RBS made an error in 
failing to assist Mr B and Ms V at the outset,  I dont  think that altered the outcome here, so I 
dont intend to direct  RBS to take any action in relation to Mr B and Ms Vs complaint.
I would  urge Mr B and Ms V to contact RBS again about their options, as my understanding
is that arrears are continuing.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional decision is that I dont  intend  to uphold
Mr B and Ms Vs complaint.
Ref: DRN7864621