K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly recorded a 
default on her credit  file. She would like this removed and the outstanding  balance to be 
written off with a refund of payments she has made since January 2019.
background 
Mrs C says she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMWFS in November 2018  but 
said she wasnt happy with the car as it had three not five doors. She says she exchanged  
the car for a five door one applying for new finance in January 2019.
She says her finance application was agreed and the difference  in cost between the two 
vehicles (£4,800)  was paid by the dealership to BMWFS. She says she was told she had no 
outstanding balance on the old car which was subsequently sold by the dealership.
She says BMWFS made a mistake settling the difference in cost between the two 
agreements and has asked her for numerous  documents. And that it is  now  chasing her to 
pay off the old agreement.
BMWFS said it required  more information to agree  to the transfer of the car and new finance 
agreement. It says it first asked for this in February,  but this was not forthcoming.  On that 
basis it applied the default to Mrs Cs credit file as the car had been sold on in breach  of her 
contract.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He felt that circumstances surrounding  Mrs Cs 
change of car and the two HP agreements involved were unclear. However, he felt he had 
no evidence to show that Mrs C was nothing other than an innocent party who followed 
advice she had been given by the dealership. She signed an application  form and was led to 
believe the application to transfer  the agreement for the cars had been successful in January 
2019.
He didnt feel the default BMWFS had applied  was fair and felt this should be removed. And 
that if there  was any outstanding debt that this should be resolved in a fair and reasonable 
way.
Mrs C accepted this view but BMWFS didnt. It said that a car it still had a financial  interest 
in had been sold on  so it was within its rights  to add a default to Mrs Cs credit file, it had 
never been given  information it requested in order to agree the transfer and the new finance 
agreement and finally they suspected the car wasnt primarily for Mrs Cs use.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  In relation to the car 
being sold on he said  Mrs C was under the impression that the request to transfer the car 
had been agreed by BMWFS. Also, as the car was sold by a third party, he didnt feel it was 
fair to hold Mrs C responsible for this. 
In relation to the information BMWFS said it requested but never got our investigator felt this 
information should have been  requested  at the point the transfer. The  earliest evidence he 
could find of information being  requested was in April 2019 almost three months after Mrs C 
had been told the agreement had been transferred over
Ref: DRN77600912Finally, in relation  to BMWFSs third point of who primarily used the car our investigator felt if 
BMWFS felt there was a breach of contract  it was reasonable for it to request more  
information . However, the default was added as the car had been re sold so he didnt feel 
the default was fair or reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
As I understand it when Mrs C decided the car, she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement  
with BMWFS in November  2018  didnt suit her she agreed with the dealership to change the 
car, and to a new  finance agreement. The dealership  then sold the car she returned.
BMWFS says it never agreed to a new finance  agreement as Mrs C never supplied 
information it needed to do so. The car was sold without its agreement meaning Mrs C was 
in breach of her contact. As a result, it applied a default on her credit file  which  it feels  is fair.
I have seen numerous pieces of evidence  which I feel , understandably  led Mrs C to believe 
she had changed  her car and the financial arrangements had been agreed in relation to that 
change.
This includes an email sent to Mrs C to sign the agreement electronically on 22 January 
2019,  and confirmation on the same day that the settlement of a current finance  agreement 
had been made. a pay-out confirmation  dated 23 January  2019  in relation to the finance  
application which made no mention of further  information being required,  a letter  from 
BMWFS dated  13 February 2019  stating  it had no further financial interest in the car and 
emails from the broker dated February  2019 confirming funds have  been  received and were 
in the process  of clearing.  
Given all this information I think it was reasonable for Mrs C to think  the change of car and 
resulting finance  agreement  had all been agreed  and she had nothing further to do.
BMWFS  has told us its underwriters need more information to agree to finance proposal. 
But the only evidence  we have seen  is that further information was requested towards the 
end of April 2019  several months after Mrs C believed  she had taken out the agreement
We have asked Mrs C why she didnt  provide  the information when requested in April 2019  . 
As I understand it, she only had to confirm she was the main  driver confirmation of her 
employment and that she fully understood the terms and conditions.
Mrs C said she felt she had complied with what was needed at the time and didnt want  to 
deal with this month  later particularly as , in her view, the change of car and finance 
arrangements had been agreed in January 2019.
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration, but it might have been easier to supply the information 
requested as I dont  believe it was particularly difficult information to supply. As the default 
was applied a month  later this might have avoided  this happening.
As I understand it BMWFS applied the default as Mrs C was in breach of her contract  having  
sold the car on whilst  the finance agreement was still live. I dont think that is reasonable. 
Firstly, from all I have  seen I think Mrs C was entitled to believe the finance  agreements on 
Ref: DRN77600913the two cars had been resolved. And secondly,  she didnt sell the car, as I understand it 
dealership who brokered her finance agreements did.
On this basis I think its unreasonable  that BMWFS put the default on Mrs Cs credit  file and 
think it should be removed.
When Mrs C first put in her complaint to us apart  from asking for the default to be removed, 
she asked for the outstanding balance to be written  off and for her payments since  January  
2019 to be refunded.
As I understand it Mrs C has continued to make  the monthly payments, she made  under  her 
finance agreement  for the first car. As BMWFS  hasnt accepted that it agreed a new finance 
arrangement I dont believe the payments have  altered. If thats the case,  there may well be 
an outstanding  balance from the difference in payments between the two finance 
arrangements. I dont feel its fair for these  to be written off .But I would expect BMWFS to 
resolve this in a way that is fair to both parties for example spreading any outstanding  
balance over a reasonable period.
I dont think there are any grounds  to refund the payments   Mrs Cs has made  since January 
2019 to be refunded. She hasnt , as far as I am aware , paid for two agreements.  She has 
had use of the car so its fair that she pays for it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  BMW Financial  Services(GB) Limited should :-
-Remove the default on Mrs Cs credit  file
-Resolve any outstanding debt in a fair and reasonable way
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7760091