K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality and that it hasnt accepted his rejection of the car.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a conditional  sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he electronically  signed in December 2018. The cars electronic 
stability control warning light came on in April 2019 and the car was repaired by the dealer at 
the end of that month. But the warning light came on again so the car was booked in for a 
further repair. 
Mr S complained to Santander Consumer Finance and said that he wanted to reject the car. 
He took the car to the dealer  on the day of the repair and signed  the job card but at 
lunchtime he spoke to a citizens  advice bureau and then e-mailed Santander  Consumer 
Finance and the dealer  to say that he wanted to reject the car. 
The repair was completed and the car was returned to Mr S  and Santander  Consumer 
Finance said that he couldnt reject the car. He wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and he didnt believe that the car would have been  repaired 
before Mr S called Santander Consumer Finance. So he recommended that it should: end 
the agreement  and collect the car; refund any deposit paid by Mr S for the car (with  interest);  
remove any adverse information  about  the agreement from Mr Ss credit file; refund all 
payments from May 2019; and pay him £150  for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr S says that hes experiencing financial difficulties and Santander Consumer Finance has 
asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in summary, that: 
Mr S delivered the car to the dealer at 8am on the day of the second repair  but didnt 
send the e-mail correspondence about  his desire  to reject the car until 2:49pm and 
the dealer would  have begun the repair work by then;
the e-mail address that Mr S used for the e-mail to the dealer was for its head office 
so the repairer  would have been unaware of it; and
although Mr S mentioned rejection  when  he spoke  with it on the day before the 
repair, he was then happy to accept repairs and he delivered  the car to the dealer for 
it to be repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a fault with the car in April 2019  that 
caused its electronic  stability control  warning light to come on. The dealer repaired that fault 
but it re-occurred  the following day and a further repair  was necessary. The fault occurred 
within six months of the car being supplied  to Mr S and hed given the dealer an opportunity 
to repair  it. 
Ref: DRN72306302Because of that, I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr S and that he would have had the right at that time to 
reject the car. Ive listened  to the recording of a phone call that Mr S made to Santander 
Consumer Finance the day before  the second  repair of the car. I consider it to be clear from 
that call that Mr S wanted to reject the car and that Santander Consumer Finance dealt with 
that call as a complaint  about the car.
Mr S took the car to the dealer for the second repair the following day and he signed the job 
card for the dealer  to repair  the car. He then spoke with a citizens  advice  bureau  at 
lunchtime and e-mailed Santander  Consumer Finance and the dealer that afternoon to say 
that he wanted to reject  the car. He says that he was phoned by the dealer about  a part that 
was required and that he told the dealer that he wanted to reject the car.
The repair was completed and Mr S collected  the car but complained to this service. He says 
that hes not used it since  then and that its mileage  is 29,473.  I consider that Mr S had told 
Santander Consumer  Finance that he wanted  to reject the car the day before the second 
repair and that he told it and the dealer that he wanted to reject the car after hed taken the 
car to the dealer but before the repair was completed.
This is a finely balanced case  and I understand and sympathise with Santander  Consumer 
Finances reasons for rejecting Mr Ss complaint.  But I consider that Mr S should  be allowed 
to reject the car so I find that Santander Consumer Finance should end the agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected form Mr S.
The conditional sale agreement  shows that Mr S didnt make  an advance payment  for the 
car and he says that hes not used it since it was repaired. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to refund  to Mr S all of the monthly  payments  
that hes made for the car since it was repaired, with interest.  I understand that Mr S hasnt 
made all of the payments that were  due under the agreement and if Santander Consumer 
Finance has recorded  any adverse information  about the agreement on Mr Ss credit  file, I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
These events have caused  distress and inconvenience to Mr S and hes described the 
financial difficulties that hes experiencing. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for 
Santander Consumer  Finance to pay him £150 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience.
my decision
For these reasons my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order  Santander 
Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander  Consumer  Finance, to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr S 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr S the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  the 
car was repaired.
3.Pay interest on those  amounts  at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN723063034.Remove any adverse  information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ss 
credit file.
5.Pay £150 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander  Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 3 above. Santander  Consumer  Finance  must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7230630