K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that AIB Group  (UK) plc, trading as First Trust,  didnt tell her that shed 
reached the maximum limit on her regular monthly saver  account and that she was receiving 
a lower rate of interest on her savings.
She wants First Trust to pay her the interest  she says she lost, and to change  its systems so 
that other  people dont  lose out.
background
Mrs H opened a regular  saver account  in 2017 and paid in the maximum amount - £500  
each month. After a year a new saver period started. This meant her new contributions,  from 
month 13 onwards,  earned the regular saver rate of interest. But her existing savings of 
£6,000 (plus interest) earned  interest  at the banks standard rate.
Mrs H says she didnt receive a reminder that shed only receive the lower rate on her 
existing savings because, at the time, she hadnt  set up access  to online banking.
First Trust said there was no obligation  on it to remind her about the new saver period as this 
was set out in its terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
interest rate had been applied in line with the account terms and conditions and that there 
wasnt any obligation on First Trust to notify Mrs H at the end of the saver period.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that:
Regulations require  banks to tell their customers when interest  rates are changing. The 
purpose of the regulation is to protect  consumers  who may have  forgotten what was in 
the original paperwork. But First Trust has bypassed  the regulation.
First Trust says it wouldve told Mrs H that her account had been re-set  if shed  been  an 
online banking customer or if shed visited a branch. So shes  been discriminated 
against because  of the way shes chosen  to do her banking.
She didnt  understand how the interest worked on the account because  it wasnt made 
clear enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H opened a regular  saver account  in one of the banks  branches.  I cant  be sure exactly 
what was discussed,  but the bank says it wouldve given Mrs H a copy of the terms and 
conditions of the account and a one page account  summary. Having considered  these 
documents, I find the interest rate was applied  correctly to her account.
Ref: DRN79659622Mrs H says the paperwork wasnt clear.  But the top of the summary page shows  the two 
rates of interest that will be applied to the account.  In April 2017 the regular saver rate was 
2.50% and the standard saver rate was 0.25%. I think its reasonably clear that the 
maximum monthly amount of £500  applies during the saver  period of 12 months. It says 
that:
The Standard Saver Rate applies to balances above the Maximum Monthly Threshold.
And later in that document  it says that:
You can continue to save to your Regular Saver Account  after 12 months. A new Saver  
Period will begin on the anniversary  of your first lodgement. At this time, the Maximum 
Monthly Threshold will be reset to £500.
So after careful  consideration, I think it was made  reasonably clear that, if Mrs H chose to 
continue to make the maximum monthly  payments after the first 12 months, then the amount  
shed deposited  during  the first 12 months  would attract interest at the lower rate.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) regulations require banks to give reasonable 
notice of a material  change to a rate of interest. This includes providing notice when an 
interest rate expires at the end of a fixed period.  But I dont find this applies here.  Mrs Hs 
account was still attracting  interest  at the rate set out in the account  terms and conditions.
I further find that the rate of interest  was clearly set out in the monthly statements sent to 
Mrs H. Each  statement included  the following wording:
If you have  a Regular Saver account please  remember that the account  operates  on a 12 
month cycle. In month 13 the threshold  for the Regular Saver rate of interest  resets from 
£6.000 to £500 and the cycle begins  again, regardless of account balance.  Contact us for 
more details.
So if Mrs H was unsure  how this would impact her savings, she couldve  contacted  the bank.
In particular, her May statement set out the interest  rate following the new saver  period. It 
said that the interest rate was 2.5%  on her new deposit of £500,  and 0.25%  on her balance  
above this amount.
I understand Mrs Hs strength of feeling  on this matter,  and I have taken into account her 
personal circumstances at the time of the new saver period when her savings account would 
clearly not have been a priority. But Im afraid this doesnt change my conclusion. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont find First Trust was obliged to do any more  or that it treated 
her unfairly.
Ref: DRN79659623my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7965962