K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Clydesdale Bank  Plc (t/a Yorkshire Bank)  have refused 
to initiate a chargeback for payments made to purchase a holiday club membership.
background
Mr and Mrs J have explained they were sold a holiday club membership in 2006. They  say 
they made a payment of £7,119 in January  2006  and a further payment of £8,595 in July 
2007. Theyve said that both of these payments were made  by debit card.
Mr and Mrs J say the sale was completed  using high-pressure sales  techniques and they 
were misled into buying the membership and about the benefits it offered. Theyve explained 
that payments  were  taken without them being  allowed a cooling off period and that there are 
other deficiencies  with the membership contract that may mean  it doesnt  meet  regulations 
around this type of agreement.
Mr and Mrs J have said that since becoming members they experienced numerous 
difficulties in using  the services  sold to them. And theyve provided online  reviews to show 
that many  other people  have experienced difficulties with the company.
Mr and Mrs J asked Yorkshire  Bank  for a refund by way of chargeback in July 2018.  
Yorkshire Bank responded saying the chargeback could  not be initiated as the request had 
been made outside of the time limits for doing so. Mr and Mrs J thought this was unfair  as 
they were unaware  of the time limits or restrictions and had only waited this long as theyd 
tried for a long time to rectify things with the merchant. As they were  unhappy  Mr and Mrs J 
asked our service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator looked into this and found  that, due to the chargeback being requested 
outside of the time limit set by the card scheme, Yorkshire Bank  hadnt  done anything wrong 
by not processing  it and that it wasnt required to refund the transactions.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J have said that both of the transactions they are asking for a refund of were 
made by debit card from their Yorkshire  Bank account. Yorkshire Bank has provided account  
statements that show the second  payment of £8,595  was made  from their joint current 
account by debit card in July 2007. But statements from January  2006 dont show  the first 
payment they have  enquired about.  So it is unclear how the first payment was made.
Yorkshire Bank has provided information  about  the other accounts Mr and Mrs J have held 
with it over the years. And from the details provided  it doesnt look like any of these other 
accounts were used to make the first payment  either.  Depending on how that transaction 
was made  it may be the case that Mr and Mrs J are able to pursue  their claim for a refund of 
it under  different legislation  with whichever business provided them the account the payment 
was made  from. But here Ive only considered  whether Yorkshire Bank  has acted correctly 
by refusing to initiate  a chargeback.
Ref: DRN76672182Chargeback is the process by which card payment disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. The rules around chargebacks are set by the card scheme. There  
are strict rules on when the card issuer, here Yorkshire Bank,  are allowed to initiate a 
chargeback. Mr and Mrs Js account statements from the time of the transactions indicate  
that they had Maestro debit  cards. So the relevant card scheme here is MasterCard.
MasterCards scheme rules say that for Maestro cards a chargeback for goods or services  
not being provided has to be initiated within 120 days from when the payment  was made. 
The rules  also talk about being  able to process  a chargeback as long as it is requested  
within 120 days from the last date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or 
services  but only where an anticipated date is given for the services to be provided. Here 
Mr and Mrs J paid for an ongoing membership that they could choose to use at a time that 
suited them. So no anticipated  date for providing  services was given. The rules also mention 
that chargebacks  should not be initiated if more than 540 days has passed  since  the 
payment was made  although  this rule is more applicable to MasterCards  than Maestro 
debit cards. 
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to Yorkshire Bank over 10 years after the transactions 
were made. This is significantly  outside  the time limits set by MasterCard to issue a 
chargeback under the card scheme.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel very strongly that they have  been  misled into 
purchasing their holiday club membership and feel that the seller  has acted fraudulently I 
cannot consider  the actions of the holiday club in my decision, only what Yorkshire Bank 
have done. 
Although I can appreciate  the reasons why Mr and Mrs J did not approach Yorkshire Bank  
sooner, and I understand that they were  unlikely to be aware of these  time limits,  
Yorkshire Bank are unable to circumvent the rules  set  by  MasterCard. As Yorkshire  Bank 
was informed of a dispute too late to initiate a chargeback, it was unable  to help. For these 
reasons I dont think Yorkshire Bank  have done anything wrong by declining to process a 
chargeback. So I cant fairly say that Yorkshire  Bank  should  be held responsible for giving 
Mr and Mrs J a refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7667218