K821x#15complaint
Ms K and her son, Mr K, have complained about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) handled a claim  under their home  insurance policy  after they suffered  an escape 
of water at their property.
background
In August  2017,  Ms K and Mr K noticed  signs of water damage at their home.  Mr K 
contacted RSA. It advised them  to call a plumber to find and fix the leak.
Mr K called out someone from a company (which Ill call G) who concluded  the leak was 
from the cold water main but was unable to trace it.
Mr K called back RSA which arranged for its contractor  (which Ill call B) to attend.
B visited the property. It located a leak in the heating system underneath the dining room  
floor. It removed the defective section of piping and capped the end of the pipes. This was 
completed just under  two weeks following the date the claim had been made.
RSAs loss adjuster  visited  the property. The loss adjuster advised that Ms K and Mr K were 
responsible for repairing  the damaged section. It said that once this had been  done, the 
property could be dried and reinstatement  work carried out.
Ms K and Mr K didnt arrange for the repair. They considered  there was evidence of an 
ongoing leak. They contacted the loss adjuster which arranged  for B to re-attend.  However,  
after a further  inspection, B maintained  that there  was no other leak.
Ms K and Mr K continued to feel that another leak existed. RSA arranged  for someone else 
to attend the property  but they could find no trace of the leak.
Ms K and Mr K also considered the property was uninhabitable,  particularly for Mr Ks sister  
who suffered from asthma.  They asked  if they could all be moved to alternative 
accommodation (AA) until reinstatement had taken  place.  RSA offered to provide AA for 
Mr Ks sister only. Mr Ks sister didnt take up this offer because she didnt want to be in AA 
on her own.
Ms K and Mr K also told RSA that they were considering  replacing  all of the pipework in their 
house. They  considered that RSA should cover  the cost of this. RSA agreed  to cover the 
cost of repairing  the failed section of pipework in view of the delays which had occurred on 
the claim.  However,  it wouldnt  agree  to cover the cost of replacing the entire system.    
In October  2017, Ms K and Mr K arranged for the failed section of pipe to be repaired, thus 
enabling their central  heating to be restored. They also obtained reports, including  from G, 
which indicated that there was an ongoing leak in their cold water main.
Ms K and Mr K complained to RSA about  its handling of the claim. While  it was considering  
this complaint, RSA asked Ms K and Mr K to provide  the reports indicating  the ongoing leak.
In November 2017, Ms K and Mr K provided  RSA with the reports  indicating  an ongoing leak 
in the cold water main. RSA agreed that Ms K and Mr K should  appoint their preferred 
contractor (which Ill call D) to trace  and access the leak, to enable its repair.
Ref: DRN72254802In December 2107, D traced the leak in the cold water main  and carried out a repair.  
However, in the course of its work, it caused  a dent to a pipe. D came  back a short time 
afterwards to fix the dented pipe but in so doing  it caused  damage to a section of heating 
pipe. It came back again the next day to fix the heating pipe.    
Also in December 2017, RSA issued a final response letter on Ms K and Mr Ks complaint. It 
said that their buildings policy provided cover  for trace and access  of leaks but did not cover 
the cost of repairs to damaged pipes. It said that the property had been habitable and 
therefore, apart from Mr Ks sister  who had health  issues, no AA had been necessary. It 
considered that any delay  had been largely  due to Ms K and Mr K refusing to pay for the 
repair of the damaged pipework even though it had been explained to them  that drying of the 
property could not start until this had been  done. It said that the home emergency section of 
the policy did provide cover for pipe repair up to a maximum of £1,500. It sent Ms K and 
Mr K this sum towards the cost of repair, minus £146 which  it had already paid for an 
emergency call out. It nonetheless acknowledged  that there had been some  poor 
communication and delay  on its part which would  have  caused distress and inconvenience 
and for this it offered £250 compensation.
Ms K and Mr K were unhappy at RSAs response. They later referred their complaint to us.
Meanwhile, in January  2018, Ms K and Mr K had private work carried  out to replace a 
significant area of pipework in the property.
In February 2018,  drying of the property took place.  RSA agreed to cover the cost of AA for 
Ms K and her family during this two-week  period.
Following this, Ms K and Mr K obtained  quotes for the reinstatement  work.  RSA approved 
the quotes and the work took place.
Ms K and Mr K continued to be unhappy about  various aspects of RSAs  claim handling.  
They again  complained to RSA.  It issued a final response letter in February 2019 in which it 
maintained that, since the time of its first final response letter,  it had done nothing  wrong.
Ms K and Mr K were unhappy at RSAs response. They referred  this complaint to us also. 
I issued a provisional decision dealing with both complaints. My provisional findings  were as 
follows:
RSAs obligations under the trace and access  / home emergencies  cover
The policy offers cover  for damage  caused  by escape of water from fixed water  or fixed  
heating systems but states that this excludes  the following:
Damage to the appliance or system which the water or oil escapes from unless 
freezing causes the damage
The policy also offers  cover for trace and access. The policy states:
We will pay the cost of removing and replacing  any part of the buildings  necessary 
to repair  a household heating or water system that has caused an escape of water or 
oil.
Ref: DRN72254803Furthermore, the policy offers cover for home emergencies. The policy  states:
We will pay the cost of the repair, parts and call-out charges for  Repairs 
necessary to restore the service or prevent  further damage to the home as a result of 
failure or damage  to the plumbing or drainage  system
The home emergency section elsewhere  states:
If a permanent repair is necessary, the authorised tradesperson will carry it out, 
provided that it can be effected at a similar  expense to a temporary repair.  This cover  
may not provide the cost of full repair or replacement.
I consider that RSA initially  fulfilled its obligation  under  the trace and access  section of the 
policy by locating  the leak in the central heating system. However, while  it acted to prevent 
this leak from causing further damage, it should  have gone  further  and effected  a temporary 
repair as it was required to do under  the home emergencies cover. This would have enabled  
Ms K and Mr K to continue using the full central heating  system. As it was, they were left 
without a fully operating  central heating system for a period of seven  weeks  until they 
eventually arranged to have the repair done  in October 2017. I consider this would have 
caused Ms K and Mr K inconvenience.  I further consider that the repeated  denial by RSA 
that it was liable for any repair, rather than a clear explanation  that it was not liable for a 
permanent repair, would  have caused Ms K and Mr K confusion and frustration.
For the avoidance of doubt, RSA was not obliged to carry out a permanent  repair  of the pipe.  
That was always going to be Ms K and Mr Ks responsibility.
Furthermore, RSA was not obliged to replace the entire  piping  system as Ms K and Mr K 
appear to have been expecting it to do this at one stage.  In the end, Ms K and Mr K paid for 
this work  to be done privately.
deduction of £146 call out charge from £1,500 home emergency allowance
Ms K and Mr K think this deduction  was unfair  because the engineer  who attended  their 
property didnt do anything useful. However,  as far as I can see, RSA agreed to meet almost 
all of the eligible  claim costs under other  sections of the policy,  including  the track and trace 
cover. The only expense which should reasonably have been  covered under the home 
emergency allowance and which hadnt  already been covered elsewhere was for a 
temporary repair to the central heating pipe. RSA agreed to pay the full allowance  as a 
gesture of goodwill. I note that in October 2017,  Ms K and Mr K paid a plumber £108  to 
apparently effect  a repair and turn back on their central heating.  I consider that the balance 
which Ms K and Mr K received from RSA far exceeded the amount they could have 
legitimately claimed under  this policy heading.  Im therefore satisfied that RSA acted fairly.
the leaks
It appears to me that there were two leaks all along; one in the central heating system which 
was found and dealt with reasonably quickly by B and a second in the cold water mains 
which it failed to find.
Ms K and Mr K have suggested  that there  was no leak in the central heating system  and that 
B damaged the pipe during the trace  and access work. I dont find this argument persuasive.
Ref: DRN72254804I cant explain why B couldnt  find the leak in the cold water mains because  it appeared to go 
through the appropriate testing process.  However,  Ms K and Mr K have provided reports  
from more than one organisation which indicate that the leak was there all along. I consider 
that RSA acted appropriately by sending another contractor to try and find the leak and, 
when this was unsuccessful, inviting  Ms K and Mr K to provide the reports apparently  
showing the existence of the further leak. Once RSA was provided with these reports  in 
November 2017,  it agreed that Ms K and Mr K could  appoint their preferred contractor to 
trace and access the leak, which I consider  was fair. However, things would have 
progressed quicker  if RSAs contractors had found  the leak in the cold water  mains when 
they conducted their testing during  August and September  2017. This delay will have caused 
Ms K and Mr K inconvenience.
provision of AA
RSA provided AA for Ms K and her family for two weeks during the heat injection drying 
process. I consider this was fair as the house would have been very uncomfortable to live in 
during this period. I dont consider that the house was uninhabitable  for the rest of the time.  It 
had normal cooking  and washing facilities and I dont consider that the trace and access  
work which had been  carried  out rendered it hazardous, even taking into account  that Ms K 
was recovering from an operation. RSA nonetheless offered AA to Mr Ks sister in view of 
her asthma. I consider this was fair and that it did not need to extend this offer to other 
members of the family.
electricity costs / laundry  costs
RSA met the electricity costs in Ms K and Mr Ks property while  the drying work was taking 
place. I consider it was up to Ms K and Mr K to meet  the electricity costs in their AA. I dont 
consider that RSA needs to pay anything  towards  this despite the fact it was on a coin-
operated meter.
Ms K and Mr K say they incurred laundry  costs  while in AA due to the fact they didnt have 
access to a washing machine. Unfortunately, they dont  have  any evidence of these costs 
and so I dont  feel able to award  anything in this regard.
filling in holes / reinstating screed
Ms K and Mr K say that RSA should  have filled in 21 holes which  were made in the screed to 
insert heat injection drying equipment. I agree that RSA should have done this. In the end, 
Mr K didnt incur expense because, after RSA refused to do it, he filled in the holes himself. 
Nonetheless, this will have caused him some  inconvenience.
Ms K and Mr K also say that RSA should pay for the reinstatement of the screed. RSA has 
disputed it is liable  for this. If the screed  in question was removed as part of the trace and 
access process then, in theory, RSA is liable for putting it back. However,  I havent  seen  any 
invoice to show this cost. Ms K and Mr K have provided an invoice for the complete 
replacement of their piping system  which they had carried out in January 2018. However, as 
I have already explained, RSA is not liable for this cost. It might be that this work included 
the removal of the remaining screed and the reinstatement of all the screed,  including the bit 
which had been  removed for the purposes  of track  and trace. However,  in the absence of 
any evidence to show the cost of reinstating  the specific  areas  of screed removed  as part of 
Ref: DRN72254805the track  and trace process, I cant reasonably require RSA to make a payment  to Ms K and 
Mr K.
compensation for loss of earnings 
Mr K says that the stress  and anxiety caused by RSAs  poor handling of the claim made him 
ill and consequently led to a loss in his earnings.  I havent seen any evidence  relating to 
either Mr Ks health or income  to support this. But even if there were evidence to show that 
he suffered a loss of earnings due to being  off work due to stress and anxiety, I think  it would 
be hard for Mr K to show that this was the fault of RSA. The fact is that claims of this nature 
can be stressful, even if handled well by the insurer. I dont consider that Mr K has shown 
RSA handled  the claim  so poorly that it caused him to become  ill.
Ms K and Mr K have also made  reference to the number of site visits by contractors for 
which at least one of them had to be present and how this affected their ability to do their 
respective jobs. However, I again  dont consider they have shown that RSA has caused 
such an unreasonable demand on their time that they should  be entitled to compensation for 
loss of earnings.
other outstanding expenses
  
The investigator of the second complaint recommended that RSA should pay Ms K and Mr K 
£65 for the cost of repairing a telephone line and £45 for the cost of refitting a carpet. 
I consider that these  costs should  be fairly met by RSA and note that it has already agreed 
to this.
compensation for distress and inconvenience  
I have noted various  ways  in which RSA should have handled  the claim better. It should 
have offered to carry out a temporary repair of the damaged central heating pipe. It should  
have realised there was also a leak in the cold water  main.  These  errors caused  Ms K and 
her family to be without  central heating for seven weeks and held up the claim. Furthermore, 
RSAs failure to acknowledge and clarify its obligations under the policy will have caused  
frustration to Ms K and Mr K. There was further  minor inconvenience caused to Mr K when 
he had to fill in the holes  in the screed.  And I can see that the communication  throughout 
was poor,  with Ms K and Mr K at certain times  being  told one thing by RSA and another  by 
its loss adjuster. Indeed, even the first final response letter RSA sent was confusing  in that it 
clearly implies it would  pay Ms K and Mr K a total of £500  compensation  yet RSA has told us 
that it only paid £250. Im not sure what the true situation is.
The investigator of the second complaint recommended that RSA should pay a further £250 
compensation which was for its failings since December 2017.  After taking everything into 
account, I think RSA should  pay total compensation of £750, from which it may deduct any 
compensation it has already paid following its first final response letter.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Ms K and Mr K didnt accept my provisional  findings. I summarise their response  below:
RSA didnt make them  aware that it was their responsibility to arrange a repair  of the 
damaged pipe;
Ref: DRN72254806the policy was poorly  worded and implied that RSA was liable  for the full cost of repairs,  
including to any damaged pipe;
there was no leak in the heating system  as was demonstrated by the fact that only B had 
said this out of six different people who had attended the property;
the house was not habitable from a health  and safety perspective and so RSA should 
have provided  AA for longer than simply the two week period when heat injection drying 
was taking place;
Mr K had to buy some  materials to fill in the holes in the screed though  he doesnt have 
the receipt for this, nor is a breakdown  invoice  available  to show the cost which  was 
incurred in reinstating the screed; RSA should  nonetheless pay them however much its 
own contractors would  have charged  for this work;
Mr Ks GP has confirmed that he found it necessary to take time off work due to anxiety 
caused by the claim and RSA should therefore compensate him for this; and
the proposed  compensation  was insufficient given the distress and inconvenience RSA 
had caused them.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
I dont agree that RSA failed to make  Ms K and Mr K aware it was their responsibility to 
arrange repair of the damaged pipe. I can see that RSA advised  them  on several occasions 
that the policy did not cover the cost of this repair (albeit, as noted in my provisional  
decision, RSA should have clarified  that it was not liable for the cost of a permanent  repair  
but that the cost of a temporary repair was covered under their home emergencies  cover) 
I have explained  in my provisional decision exactly what costs  RSA was liable for under the 
policy. It may be slightly confusing because it involves three different sections of the policy,  
namely escape of water,  trace and access, and home emergencies. Im satisfied that RSA 
was not liable for the cost of permanent repair of a damaged pipe from which  water  was 
escaping.
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision that I consider  there  were  two separate  
leaks and Im not persuaded by Ms K and Mr Ks argument that there was never a leak in the 
central heating system.  Ms K and Mr K say that five other people  failed  to find this leak but in 
the case of four of these people, they only attended the property  after B had found the leak 
and capped off the pipe so it is not surprising that they found no evidence of the leak. I cant 
explain why G, who attended  the property before B, didnt find the leak in the central heating 
system in the same way that I cant explain  why B didnt find the leak in the cold water 
system, but this doesnt cause me to think the leak in the central heating system never 
existed. I dont find it suspicious, as Ms K and Mr K have suggested, that B didnt leave the 
defective piping with them.  If they had wanted to inspect this, they could have asked for it at 
the time.
Ref: DRN72254807Ms K and Mr K have restated the reasons why they believe  the property was uninhabitable.  
I have already explained in my provisional decision why I disagree this was the case, except 
when the heat injection drying  took place. 
Ms K and Mr K say there was a financial cost which was incurred in filling in holes and 
reinstating screed. I acknowledged in my provisional  decision that these were  tasks for 
which RSA was liable. However, Ms K and Mr K havent been able to quantify  these  costs  or 
show that they were  anything more than negligible. I therefore dont consider that RSA 
needs to pay anything in respect  of these costs.  I have already taken account of the 
inconvenience caused to Ms K and Mr K by RSA failing to fulfil its obligations. 
Mr K has provided a letter from his GP stating that the issues surrounding the claim caused  
Mr K anxiety for which  he needed  to take time off work. However,  as I said in my provisional  
decision, claims of this kind can be stressful even if handled well by the insurer.  I sympathise 
with Mr K over the fact that he became ill during this period  and was thus unable  to work. 
However, the letter from the GP doesnt persuade  me that his illness was due to the failings 
of RSA. I remain of the opinion  that RSA doesnt have to pay Mr K compensation for loss of 
earnings.
I note that Ms K and Mr K are dissatisfied with my award of compensation. However, after 
taking everything into account, I remain of the opinion that total compensation of £750 is 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused  to them  by RSAs failings.
In view of the above, and taking into account  my provisional findings  and the non-response  
of RSA, Im satisfied that my provisional decision  should  stand.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following:
pay Ms K and Mr K the £65 cost of repairing their telephone line;
pay Ms K and Mr K the £45 cost of re-fitting their carpet; 
add interest to the above sums at the annual simple rate of 8% calculated  from the date 
the costs were incurred  to the date of settlement;*  and
pay Ms K and Mr K £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience, less any amount 
it has already paid in compensation following its final response  letter  of December  2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 December  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If RSA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms K and Mr K how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms K and Mr K a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7225480