K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about the service they received from Mortgage  Compare  Limited 
(trading as Mortgage and Insurance Professionals). They had two mortgage applications 
which did not proceed over a period  of several months. They  feel that MCL  misled them  into 
believing that it was used to dealing  with complex  cases. They want MCL to refund the £299  
administration fee that they paid, and compensate them for the time they have wasted. And 
they want MCL to stop chasing them for the remainder of the arrangement fee and lost 
procuration fee.
background
Mr and Mrs A wanted to re-mortgage their house and consolidate  some  debts. They  
completed a fact find with MCLs adviser  in May 2018 and paid an upfront processing fee of 
£299. MCL submitted one application to a lender which was declined at a late stage  in the 
process. And a further application  failed  as the second mortgage lender asked for certain 
information about Mr As earnings that was not supplied.
Mr and Mrs A complained to MCL. They said, in summary that they had fully briefed MCLs 
adviser on their need and the fact that they had had a few previous mortgage applications 
which had failed. And the adviser had reassured  them that MCL was a firm of experienced 
professional brokers  adept at handling  complicated cases. They  felt that their application had 
not been properly handled and/or  represented  by MCL. And they asked  for a refund of the 
payment of £299.
MCL didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. It said, in summary, that it could find no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs A were given  incorrect advice or that they received poor service. 
While the first application was declined at a late stage, MCL  had no control over the lenders 
decision and couldnt insist that it divulge information to MCL. And it said that the second 
application failed  because the lender asked for certain information about Mr As income. 
Despite numerous  requests,  MCL  had been  unable to obtain  a clear understanding of Mr As 
employment history or earnings from either Mr A or his accountant.
MCL also drew Mr and Mrs As attention to a clause in its client  agreement which  allowed  
MCL to charge  where  it was unable to progress an application due to the client failing to 
provide documentation or information. And it sent them an invoice for £2,259.47  for the work 
it had done in advising and arranging the mortgage, and its lost procuration  fee.
Our adjudicator felt that MCL had dealt with Mr and Mrs As complaint fairly. He said.
The client agreement made it clear that certain fees would be payable  where  MCL 
was unable to progress the application  due to the client failing to provide 
documentation or information. The illustration  for the second mortgage  application  
stated that there was a £995  intermediary  fee and a £1,264.47 procuration  payable to 
MCL by the mortgage lender. So, based  on the documents Mr and Mrs A had signed,  
he could see no reason for MCL  to refund  the £299 paid or to ask it to stop its 
counter claim for the lost procuration and remaining  outstanding arrangement  fee.
He had also looked to see whether Mr and Mrs A had provided the information 
required by MCL,  and whether that information  was correct. Having reviewed all the 
evidence, he was satisfied that the information given in the mortgage applications 
correctly reflected the information in the fact find that Mr A had completed over the 
phone with the broker, and signed.
Ref: DRN77852622The evidence suggested that MCL made  numerous attempts to get the application to 
the first lender  accepted. However, ultimately  the first lender declined  the application. 
It didnt give a reason.  Lenders having  the right to decline an application without 
giving a specific reason. From  what he could see MCL hadnt  done anything wrong.
Mr A then gave permission to MCL to submit  a new application  to a second mortgage  
lender. After submission  of the application, that lender requested further  evidence  of 
income. MCL made  several  attempts  to obtain the income  requested. The evidence  
suggested that there were inconsistences  between the information  recorded in the 
fact find and other sources of information.
Mr and Mrs A dont  agree with our adjudicators view. Mr A says in particular  that he was 
able to obtain a mortgage within  3 weeks of engaging a new broker.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr A asked that I call him so that he can explain his points directly  to me. But, after reading 
all the evidence and comments  and listening to telephone recordings I find that I have 
enough information to reach a fair decision about this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence I agree with our adjudicator that MCL hasnt 
treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and 
Mrs A, so Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The crux of Mr and Mrs As complaint is that MCL  mislead them by leading them to believe it 
would be able to arrange a mortgage  for them, when  in fact it could not. Ive considered what 
Mr A has to say on this issue but, having  done  so, I dont agree. 
In relation to the first mortgage application,  I note that this was declined by the lender at a 
late stage. As our adjudicator has explained, lenders have the right to do so without giving 
any reasons. But having reviewed the evidence I cant see that MCL made any errors in the 
application. So Im not persuaded that it is reasonable  to say that MCL is responsible for the 
lender declining the application, or that it didnt handle the application properly.
The second  mortgage application failed after the lender requested further  evidence  of 
income. I can see from the documents supplied that MCL made a number of efforts  to obtain  
this information  from Mr A and his accountant, but was unable to do so. So again I dont find 
that this application failed  as a result of any error  by MCL.
I note that Mr A says that he was able to obtain a mortgage within  3 weeks of engaging a 
new broker. But different  lenders  have different criteria and ask for different information.  And, 
although I appreciate the point Mr A is making,  this doesnt change  my decision.  
Ive seen a copy  of the client agreement  Mr and Mrs A signed.  This provides that where  MCL  
is unable to progress  an application due to the client failing to provide documentation or 
information the broker fee for administration work carried  out plus any lost procuration fee 
will be payable.  Im satisfied that the fees and payments were clearly set out in the mortgage  
illustration. And Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the information  the lender was 
requesting was not forthcoming. So, in the circumstances, I dont think it is reasonable for 
me to ask MCL to write off the amounts  it says are due. 
Ref: DRN77852623I also note that the Important information about our mortgage services document  makes  it 
clear that the £299 that Mr and Mrs A paid is non refundable. So Im not persuaded it is fair 
to ask MCL  to return this amount  to Mr and Mrs A.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785262