K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mrs W says Lloyds  Bank PLC (trading  at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc) 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive considered some of the paperwork that was completed during 
the sale. On the mortgage application  there are two options for PPI near the end of 
the form. Theres an option to apply for PPI and an option to decline PPI. Neither has 
been selected. So I think that the PPI was presented as optional. 
Ive also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate 
form for the PPI. On the PPI application  form, Mrs W has signed  separately to agree 
to take PPI. A separate direct debit mandate  form has also been signed to set up 
payment for the policy.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. I also dont think  that her 
employment affected her eligibility  for the PPI and wouldnt  have made  it very difficult  
for her to be able to claim  on the policy. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN73473132 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including what shes  said about not needing  
PPI because of her existing means of making her repayments. But based  on what  Mrs W 
has told us, I still think that she could have found the PPI useful if she was unwell and 
unable to work or if she was made unemployed. 
I say this because  the PPI could have paid out for longer than Mrs Ws existing means likely 
would have lasted.  For example, Mrs W has said that she was entitled to less than three  
months sick pay, whereas the PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
The PPI also would  have  paid out in addition to Mrs Ws savings and likely for longer. Having 
the PPI also would have meant that Mrs W wouldnt need to use her savings   keeping them 
intact for future use. Or shed also have the option  of using her savings to help pay for other 
living expenses that she may have had. 
So I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable  and the policy was right for 
Mrs W.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont award  
any further compensation. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7347313