K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains Nationwide  Building Society  provided her with incorrect information and 
as a result  her account went over its authorised overdraft limit whilst she was on holiday.  
She further complains it contacted her to tell her this by phone when she had given her 
mobile number on the understanding  it would only be used for text messages.
background
Miss W was planning to be away. She went to a Nationwide branch to cancel some standing 
orders and says she asked how much money  she needed to pay in to make sure her 
account stayed  within the authorised limit. She says she put in £5 more than she was told. 
She did this because she was going on holiday and wanted to make  sure all was well with 
her account.
Subsequently her account exceeded  its overdraft limit and she says she received a number 
of calls to tell her this. Miss W found  these calls upsetting as she was on holiday and thought 
her account  had been hacked. She had also asked Nationwide  only to use the number  for 
text messages.
Nationwide says it didn't intend to upset her or disrupt her holiday and it is sorry for this. It 
was just trying to make her aware her account  was in an unauthorised position. Under the 
terms and conditions of the account  it was entitled  to phone her. It paid her £25 for failing to 
keep her informed of the progress of her complaint.
The adjudicator didn't  recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt it wasn't Nationwide's  
intention to cause  upset by making  the calls.  Instead its intention was to let Miss W know  
that her account had exceeded the authorised  overdraft at the earliest opportunity. He didn't 
feel he could safely conclude what was discussed between Miss W and Nationwide at the 
time of her visit. But he did think that it was the account holder's responsibility  to make sure 
there was enough  money in the account so that it would stay within the overdraft  limits. He 
thought the £25 Nationwide  paid for failing  to keep Miss W informed about the status of her 
complaint was fair.
Miss W disagreed. She said Nationwide's  error led to her not paying enough money in to 
cover the account  in her absence. Unfortunately  because  she has dyslexia and visual stress 
she is reliant on other people doing as they say they will. Her account was meant to be 
dormant in her absence and she ensured  this by cancelling all transactions before she left. 
The robot calls to her whilst  she was away were excessive especially given the number  had 
been given on the condition it was only used for text messages. Her holiday - the first one 
she'd had in several years  - was destroyed by fear her account  had been  hacked.
The adjudicator subsequently contacted Nationwide to confirm the number of calls made and 
the timings. It then said it didnt make  calls to Miss W whilst she was on holiday but wouldn't 
have been wrong  if it had done so.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I considered what I thought was most likely to have happened 
when Miss W attended the Nationwide branch before  her holiday. 
Ref: DRN79091572The evidence provided showed during Miss Ws visit to the branch standing  orders were 
cancelled for the next day, a mini statement was produced and £90 cash  was deposited. 
Miss W said that she was told she needed  to deposit £85 to make  sure she stayed within the 
authorised overdraft limit. Nationwide  said it would have printed a mini statement  and let the 
customer work out what was needed to be paid in. The time that elapsed between  the mini 
statement being produced and the payment being made in was one minute. 
Miss W has visual disturbance and dyslexia and so has to rely on others  for help.  I didn't  
think, given Miss Ws disability, that it was likely that she would have been  able in one 
minute to make a calculation about  how much she needed to pay in. Instead I thought it was 
most likely the Nationwide employee  told her what she needed  to pay in and produced  the 
mini statement whilst they were discussing  the account. 
I also considered whether  Miss W received calls from Nationwide  whilst she was away.  I 
believed Miss W when  she said she received calls. I could see there was a reason for 
Nationwide to call but there was no evidence  that it did. I thought this was very odd. I 
couldn't say for sure what happened but I did think if Miss W hadn't  gone over her overdraft 
limit Miss W wouldn't have received calls. And I thought  Miss W wouldn't  have gone over her 
overdraft limit if she had been  given the correct information by Nationwide  or been told she 
needed to make the calculation herself  or with the help of the person with her.
Miss W was upset  by the calls because she was afraid her account  had been  hacked. I 
thought this wasn't an unreasonable  assumption given the efforts  she had made  to ensure 
the account stayed within  its limits  during  her much anticipated holiday.
So subject to further comments by the parties I proposed  to order  that Nationwide  pay 
Miss W a further £250 to compensate her for the upset caused. Any charges incurred as a 
result of going over her authorised limit should  also be refunded.
responses to my provisional  decision
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional  decision for the following reasons:
In its view a one minute delay between the mini statement being provided and the 
money being deposited into the account  doesnt  indicate that Miss W was told by the 
Nationwide employee how much she needed to credit  her account with, as this was 
insufficient time to look out for any pending  transactions due to debit the account 
It had spoken  to the employee at the branch and she remembered Miss W. She 
denies she worked out the amount Miss W needed  to pay into her account and says 
she gave Miss W a mini statement so that she could  work this out for herself.
It had also spoken to the Branch Manager who confirms that the employee  followed  
the correct procedure by providing Miss W with a mini statement. 
Miss W has the responsibility to monitor her account and to ensure there  are 
sufficient funds  available to cover the outgoings;  she should be aware  of any pending 
payments and charges that are due on her account. Therefore, it believes it is more  
likely that Miss W had already decided  how much  she needed to deposit into her 
account and the mini statement consolidated her thoughts.
Miss W entered has previously been  referred to its Collections team  due to her 
exceeding her agreed overdraft limit. 
It believes the main issue for Miss W is the calls she received and receiving  these 
calls is its correct process as set out in its terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN79091573Miss W was pleased  with my provisional  decision. But she did say she would like to receive 
a written apology from Nationwide.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been given two contradictory  accounts of what happened when Miss W attended the 
branch prior to her holiday. Only one can be true and I must decide which I think  is most  
likely.
Nationwide has provided evidence Miss W has been over her overdraft limit before. I dont 
think this is particularly relevant. The point here is that Miss W was going on holiday and 
didnt want to be troubled by Nationwide whilst away. 
Nationwide has said that for its employee  to have said what  Miss W has said she said she 
would have not been following its processes. It has also said she didnt have enough time or 
information to provide  the response  she is supposed to have given.
I agree  that she didnt  have enough time or information  to give Miss W a correct  answer  to 
the question of how much she needed  to pay into her account  to ensure she didnt  go over 
her authorised overdraft  limit. But I do think she did provide Miss W with an incorrect answer 
to her question. This is because I find Miss W and her companions account of what 
happened persuasive and reliable. I have  found  Miss W to be honest and straightforward 
throughout. She is open about the challenges  she faces dealing with paperwork and I just 
dont believe  she wouldnt have got help from her companion if she had been  told what 
the Nationwide employee says she said. The time that elapsed  doesnt suggest Miss W did 
seek help from her companion. All of this persuades  me that Miss Ws account  and not the 
Nationwides employees account  is more  reliable.
I dont think Miss W would have gone into an authorised overdraft had Miss W not been  
given the incorrect  information.
I dont think Miss W would have received calls from Nationwide  whilst she was on holiday if 
she hadnt been given incorrect information.  I accept Nationwide  was entitled  to make those 
calls under the terms and conditions  of the account.  But the only reason it was calling her 
was because of the consequence of its error. And Miss W had done all she could to prevent 
the possibility  of those calls.
I think Miss Ws holiday was upset  by the calls.  And I think the compensation set out in my 
provisional decision is fair.
Miss W would like Nationwide to apologise to her. Nationwide has said it is sorry Miss W 
feels it has broken her trust. I dont think it needs to apologise further although Im sure 
Miss W would welcome it if it did.
Ref: DRN79091574my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide  Building  Society  to:
Pay Miss W a further £250  for the distress  caused to her; and
Refund any charges  incurred  as a result of Miss W going over her authorised  
overdraft limit in the period from 19 September 2017 to 2 October 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7909157