K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the service they received from Commitments  Protection Ltd 
(CP).
background
In mid-2018 Mr and Mrs E paid CP £1,1194,  following an unsolicited  visit from one if its 
agents. Mr and Mrs E say they understood this fee was for CP to pursue a claim against  a 
lender for a mis-sold mortgage.
Following this, in September 2018,  CP provided  Mr and Mrs E with a mortgage review 
report. Mr and Mrs E then gave CP authority to proceed with a mortgage  complaint against a 
lender.
In mid-2019, Mr and Mrs E complained to CP. They said theyd contacted CP and had been 
told their claim  had been thrown  out of court because their mortgage was taken out before 
January 2005  and it was below £65,000.  They felt CP had misled  them  into believing  they 
had a very good claim to retrieve money  theyd  lost from their mortgage being mis-sold  to 
them. They said CP should have told them from the beginning it wouldnt be able to help 
because of the date theyd taken  out their mortgage.  They were also unhappy with a lack of 
communication from CP.
CP said Mr and Mrs E had paid £1,194 for a full personal review which  incorporated a 
mortgage review, where an opinion was obtained  from a financial expert. It said the opinion 
fell into category  C and it was sent to Mr and Mrs E in September  2018. A data subject 
access request was sent to the lender and was then forwarded on to solicitors  once  the 
documentation was received. The solicitors  assessed the case  and found there was no 
quantum for them to litigate. 
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator explained why she thought our service could consider everything  that had 
happened. including the fee Mr and Mrs E had paid. She thought CP had acted unfairly 
towards Mr and Mrs E, who had paid £1,194 for a full personal review in June 2018. This 
was for a contract period  of one year. But she hadnt seen evidence that CP had done any 
work regarding the full personal view since the mortgage review report was sent to Mr and 
Mrs E in September  2018.  Our investigator  thought it would be fair for CP to refund Mr and 
Mrs E nine months fees (plus 8% statutory  interest).  She also recommended CP pay Mr and 
Mrs E £100  trouble and upset for poor customer service.
CP said it didnt agree  with our investigators  opinion. It said the solicitors  should have told 
Mr and Mrs E their claim  for a mis-sold  mortgage  wouldnt be progressed  to litigation in 
March 2019. Its records  didnt show that Mr and Mrs E were offered any other financial 
products or review and it couldnt give an explanation for this. It said it also couldnt  see that 
a portfolio of templates had been sent to Mr and Mrs E.
As CP have disagreed  with our investigators view,  Mr and Mrs Es complaint  has been 
passed to me. 
Ref: DRN78761012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Jurisdiction
I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria set out in our case-handling 
rules. These can be found in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP)  section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook  (available online). The types  of activities Im allowed to consider are set 
out in DISP 2.
Since 1 April 2019 the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) 
has had the power  to consider complaints about  claims management  companies,  which  
might previously have been  considered by the Legal  Ombudsman.  
CP has told us the service  it provided was a two stage process. The first involved a review  of 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage (and other financial products). They  were  then given the option  to 
move on to the second stage, which involved CP making a claim on Mr and Mrs Es behalf. 
CP has suggested that only the second  stage of the process is a regulated  claims 
management activity  and that our service cant consider complaints relating to the first stage
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (Claims Management Activity) Order  2018 
sets out the kinds  of activities that are considered to be a claims management activity.
These include:
Advice, investigation or representation in relation to a financial  services or financial 
product claim
Each of the following  activities  is a specified kind of activity when carried  on in relation to a 
financial services or financial product claim 
(a)advising a claimant or potential claimant;
(b)investigating a claim;  and
(c)representing a claimant.
Investigating  is defined  as carrying out an investigation into, or commissioning  the 
investigation of, the circumstances, merits or foundations of a claim. And representing 
means representation in writing or orally, regardless of the tribunal, body or person before 
which or to whom the representation is made.
CP says Mr and Mrs E paid £1,194 for a full personal review. It arranged for a financial 
expert to conduct a mortgage review and give an opinion  on the likely success  of Mr and Mrs 
Es mortgage mis-sale claim.  Im satisfied that this falls under the definition of investigating 
a claim.
Ref: DRN78761013When it sent Mr and Mrs E the mortgage  review report, CP gave Mr and Mrs E four choices  
on how to proceed.  From  what I can see they chose option 4 which was instruct  
Commitments Protection to act on your behalf . Mr and Mrs E then gave their authority to 
represent them in a claim.
So, Im satisfied that both stages of CPs  process are regulated activities. This means  I can 
consider all of its actions in relation to this complaint.
Service issues
Mr and Mrs E say they were led to believe the fee they paid was for CP to pursue a claim for 
a mis-sold mortgage. CP says the fee was for a full personal review  which incorporated a
mortgage review for which an opinion was obtained  from a financial expert.
I dont have any notes  to show me what was discussed in the meeting  CP had with Mr and 
Mrs E. CP has provided a receipt to show Mr and Mrs E paid the fee in June 2018. The 
mortgage review report  provided  in September 2018, classes  Mr and Mrs Es case as 
category  C meaning there is a reduced chance  that this case will be accepted for 
litigation.  But Mr and Mrs E werent  given this information until almost  three months  after 
theyd paid the fee. So, this doesnt  give me any indication of what  Mr and Mrs E were  told in 
their initial discussions with CP. 
Mr and Mrs E might  have believed they were paying  for a mis-sold mortgage claim. But I 
dont have enough evidence to show me that CP told them this is what they were paying for 
or misled them about the success of their claim  in the initial meeting. 
The paperwork shows  that Mr and Mrs E had paid for a full personal review. So, Ive gone 
on to consider if Mr and Mrs E received the service they had paid for. 
The welcome email Mr and Mrs E were sent with the mortgage review  report says:  We will 
be working with you over the next 12 months and anticipate working around 1.5 hrs per 
month on covering  your Full Personal Review. If you add this the Agents time in travel,  
giving their advice  and administration of your review, it all adds up to good  value for your 
money.
It goes on to explain the benefits of your full personal review which include: mortgage 
review, home insurance review, life assurance review,  pension and investment review, 
funeral plan review  and discounted legal services.  
CP says that according to its records, Mr and Mrs E werent offered any other products aside 
from the mortgage review.  It isnt able to explain why. Mr and Mrs E gave their authority for 
CP to proceed with their mortgage  mis-sale  claim in September 2018. CP says it then sent a 
data subject access request to the lender and the documentation  was sent to the solicitors.  
I havent been provided with enough information to show me exactly how much  time CP 
spent working with Mr and Mrs E covering their Full Personal Review. But from what Ive 
seen, it only completed one aspect of it  the mortgage review. And most of the work  on that 
appears to have been done by September 2018. Mr and Mrs E paid the fee in June 2018. 
This means  CP likely only completed work for Mr and Mrs E for roughly three of the twelve 
months it said it would. So, I think it would be fair for CP to reimburse Mr and Mrs E for the 
remaining nine months. 
Ref: DRN78761014Mr and Mrs E paid CP £1,194 which works  out to be £99.50 a month. So, I think  CP should  
refund them  £895.50 for the nine months. It should add 8% per year simple interest from the 
date of the payment until the date the settlement is made. 
Mr and Mrs E have  also complained about  a lack of communication from CP. They say they 
had to contact  CP for updates on their claim. They werent made aware that the solicitors  
werent going to proceed with their claim  until they phoned CP a couple of months after this 
decision was made. 
CP says the solicitors  should have told Mr and Mrs E that the claim for the mis-sold 
mortgage would not be progressed to litigation.  
The welcome email CP sent to Mr and Mrs E in September 2018 says if the Solicitors 
accept the case  they will litigate  your complaint against the lender and see your case 
through to completion keeping you updated every step of the way. But it also says if the 
solicitors decide not to take your complaint on. Commitments Protection will provide you with 
a portfolio of Templates  to process the mortgage complaint yourself.  And CP has 
acknowledged that it didnt send the portfolio of templates to Mr and Mrs E. Given the 
solicitors didnt take Mr and Mrs Es case forward for litigation, I think  CP was responsible  for 
updating Mr and Mrs E on the progress  of their claim and I havent seen anything to show  
me that it did. 
Ive no doubt Mr and Mrs E were frustrated  because of the lack of communication  from CP. 
They were  also inconvenienced as they had to call for an update themselves. So, Im 
awarding an additional £100 trouble and upset  to compensate them  for this.
Putting things  right
CP should pay Mr and Mrs E:
£895.50 plus 8% per year simple  interest  from the date the fee was paid until the 
date the settlement is made.
£100 compensation for trouble and upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint and direct Commitments 
Protection Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876101