K820x#14Mr A complains that AIG Europe Limited  have declined his claim for permanent  disability 
under his personal accident insurance policy.
background
Mr A made a claim to AIG on his Disabling  Injuries Protection Plan following the loss of use 
of his left foot.
Mr A said he was sitting on the floor filing at work.  He said during this time he was sitting  on 
his foot for a prolonged  period  of time.  Hes said he noticed a pain when he got up, but 
thought nothing of it. Some months  later he found  out his foot was fractured. This developed 
into Mid Charcot Foot, which in turn led Mr A to lose the full use of his foot. Mr A then made 
a claim to AIG.
AIG declined  the claim. It said the injury Mr A suffered wasnt caused  by an accident, as 
defined in the policy. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A complained to us. He thought his injury was caused  by what a 
reasonable person would consider an accident, and he didnt think  it was fair AIG used a 
more restrictive meaning. He also thought AIG didnt do enough to investigate  the cause of 
his injury.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt AIG was acting 
fairly when  declining the claim based  on Mr As policy  terms.
Mr A disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. I will explain why.
It is for AIG to decide what it will and wont provide cover for. It must define  the cover  it 
provides clearly and unambiguously in the policy document.  
Mr As policy  says hes covered for permanent disability if the injury is caused by an 
accident. The policy defines an accident  as: "A sudden, unexpected and specific  event, 
external to the body, which occurs at an identifiable  time and place". 
I understand Mr As point  that the definition contrasts with dictionary definitions, but AIG is 
not obliged to use a dictionary definition. Im satisfied  the policy definition is clear  and 
unambiguous. This being so Im satisfied  that by assessing the claim using this definition 
AIG has not treated Mr A unfairly. 
AIG has accepted that the most likely cause of Mr As injury  was when he sat on his foot. 
Mr A has said AIG hasnt investigated  the cause of the injury  fully. But when making  a claim 
it is for the claimant to show theyve suffered a loss thats covered by the policy.  So I dont 
find that AIG did anything  wrong in taking Mr As explanation of what he thought  caused  the 
injury. Nor do I find that it was obliged to make further enquiries  in this regard. 
Ref: DRN76950042The question I need to consider is whether the injury to Mr As foot was caused by an 
accident as defined by the policy.
If Mr As injury  was caused by him sitting on his foot for a prolonged period of time,  then by 
definition, it wasnt caused by a sudden event.  And if Mr As injury was caused  by either him 
sitting on his foot, or when  he got up to stand,  it wasnt caused by anything  external to the 
body. 
Mr A felt the injury may well not have  been  the incident that he had described. This was one 
of the reasons he felt AIG should have made further enquiries. But this only leads me to 
conclude that if the injury  wasnt  caused as he described, Mr A cant  identify a place and 
time that it did occur. This is a further  requirement  of the policy  definition.
In summary,  for Mr As claim to be met, his injury must  have been  caused by an accident as 
defined in the policy and meet the definition in full. Which in this case,  it doesnt. I recognise  
that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision but I dont find that AIG has treated Mr A 
unfairly in declining his claim accident claim.
my decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7695004