K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the service she received from Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited in respect  of her home insurance  claim for an escape of water.  She also complains 
about the quality of workmanship  provided  by its contractors. 
 
background
Mrs R suffered a leak from her pipe in October 2017. She made a claim to Lloyds, which it 
accepted, and repairs were started in February 2018. The leak was repaired but Mrs Rs 
hallway and carpet were  damaged by the contractors in the process.  Mrs R complained  to 
Lloyds and it issued  a final response letter on 28 September 2018. It arranged for the 
contractors to pay Mrs R £633.31 so she could arrange to have  its poor workmanship 
repaired. Lloyds  itself paid Mrs R £1,364 which was made up of £268 to cover the damaged  
wallpaper and labour,  £396 for new carpet  and compensation of £700 for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  been caused.  
In October  2018 there was a leak from the same pipe again. Lloyds said this would need to 
be classed as a second claim for which a second  excess would need to be paid. Lloyds 
contractor replaced the pipe. Mrs R complained to Lloyds again  that its contractor had been 
rude to her and accused her of fraud.  She also complained that this second leak was the 
result of the failed repair of the first leak a year earlier. Lloyds looked  into Mrs Rs complaint 
and appointed a loss adjuster to visit and assess the cause of damage.  And it issued 
another final response letter on 20 December  2018. 
In its final response,  Lloyds said the loss adjuster suggested cutting a small access  hole in 
the ceiling  below the leak to which Mrs R had agreed. Lloyds said it would arrange for that to 
happen in the new year. Lloyds also said itd spoken  to its contractor about Mrs Rs 
complaint that shed  been spoken to unpleasantly  and that the contractor had confirmed itd 
dealt with the issue internally. Lloyds said that unfortunately it couldnt share the outcome of 
that with Mrs R. Finally Lloyds apologised and said it was making  her a payment of £440 
which was comprised of £220 for additional  electricity use and £220 compensation for 
trouble and upset  caused. 
Mrs R contacted Lloyds  again at the start of February 2019 to complain about the delays 
with her claim since the appointment of the loss adjuster,  that she remained without the use 
of her bath,  that she wasnt  being  updated  and that she hadnt  received any further payment 
towards her electricity costs. Lloyds looked into Mrs Rs complaint and issued another  final 
response letter on 20 February 2019. It said it wasnt upholding her complaint about any 
delays or service issues relating to its contractors because the contractors that were being  
used werent on its approved panel and had had to be appointed by Mrs R herself.  
Lloyds went on to say it could see Mrs Rs contractor  had sent its costed schedule of works 
to the loss adjuster on 25 January 2019 and that the loss adjuster had replied  the same  day 
asking if it could source a matching bathroom tile. Since that time it had been established a 
matching tile wasnt available and the loss adjuster had been  in discussion with the 
contractor regarding the scope of works. It said that it was satisfied that the loss adjuster had 
chased the contractor on Mrs Rs behalf.  
Lloyds said it was unable  to offer her an alternative contractor because none  were available 
in her locality. Lloyds  said itd referred  the electricity usage to the loss adjuster to assess. 
Ref: DRN77068552Finally, Lloyds accepted  that it had been  responsible  for some service issues  experienced by 
Mrs R so it paid her compensation of £75 for the trouble  and upset this had caused  her. 
The contractor finished the repair in May 2019.
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigations,  Mrs R complained to this service in 
February 2019 about the poor workmanship, poor communication, the stress of having to 
live in an upside down  home and the way shed been spoken to by Lloyds contractors.  
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. He 
thought Lloyds had dealt  with Mrs Rs complaints fairly and reasonably. Mrs R replied to say 
shed never  had any compensation for the complaints shed made so couldnt understand 
how our investigator thought that her complaint had been dealt with fairly. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs R, I dont think her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Its my role to decide whether or not Lloyds  has treated Mrs R fairly in the way its addressed  
her three complaints. I have to say that I think it has. Its worth stating here that I can only 
look at matters up to and including the date of Lloyds last final response letter on 20 
February 2019. I appreciate that Mrs R has told us that shes  experienced another  leak in 
June 2019 but Im afraid that I cant look at that here as it occurred after the date Lloyds 
issued its last final response. 
I can appreciate that suffering two water  leaks, in October 2017 and October 2018, will have 
been a very stressful experience for Mrs R and her young family. But all insurance claims,  by 
their very nature, attract a certain degree  of trouble and upset; thats  to be expected. The 
need to make a claim in the first place isnt the fault of the insurer  but where an insurer 
makes an already difficult situation  worse, through its words  or deeds, then this service  is 
able to make  it pay a consumer compensation for any avoidable trouble and upset it has 
caused. 
Here I can see, and Lloyds accepts,  that its contractors failed to offer an acceptable level of 
service and workmanship. So I can understand Mrs Rs frustration and disappointment. And 
I can see from the file that Mrs R had to repeatedly  chase Lloyds at times  for updates  on 
what was happening with her claim. And I can see that Mrs R was without  use of her bath for 
long periods of time which will have  been particularly inconvenient with a young family.
But in total,  Lloyds has paid Mrs R £995 in compensation for all the shortcomings  she 
experienced, and distress  and inconvenience  caused, by it and its contractors handling of 
her claim. I have to decide if thats a fair and reasonable amount in all the circumstances  and 
I think that it is. Indeed,  if this complaint  had passed  across my desk  without Lloyds having 
already made any compensation  payments its unlikely Id have awarded as much as this. It 
doesnt mean I think Mrs R hasnt been caused  avoidable trouble and upset by Lloyds;  I 
think she has. But it does  mean I think it has compensated her fairly for it.  
Ref: DRN77068553Lloyds accepted that Mrs R was unhappy with what it was doing  about the second leak so it 
arranged to appoint  a loss adjuster to carry out a detailed investigation into what had caused 
it (to try to discover if it was the result of a failed repair the previous year)  and to oversee the 
repairs now needed. I think  that was a reasonable action for it to take in the circumstances. I 
can understand why Mrs R didnt want Lloyds contractor to return but I can also see that 
Lloyds only had limited  access to contractors in Mrs Rs locality  so it was agreed that she 
would appoint her own, to be overseen  by the loss adjuster (on an eyes only basis). I think  
this was a reasonable way for Lloyds to address this issue. 
Lloyds told Mrs R that itd spoken to the contractor (who originally attended  in October  2018  
to try and trace the leak)  about her complaint that she had been  spoken to unpleasantly.  It 
also said that it was unable to share the outcome of that conversation  but that the issue had 
been dealt with internally. And I can see that it apologised that Mrs R even had to raise  the 
issue. I think that was a fair way to address this aspect of Mrs Rs complaint. I cant 
reasonably make Lloyds  disclose the outcome of any internal  disciplinary  matters.  
I can see too that Lloyds made sure its contractors paid Mrs R for the costs associated with 
rectifying the damage theyd caused to her wallpaper and carpet  so Im not going  to 
recommend that it pay any more  for this. 
Lloyds has said that it was still investigating the second leak and whether it was the 
responsibility of its contractors or should be a separate claim. It said it would only charge 
Mrs R a second policy excess  if it was found to be a separate  claim. I think  thats fair.
So, on balance, I think that Lloyds has dealt with each of Mrs Rs complaints fairly  and 
reasonably so Im not going to make it do any more. I know  Mrs R said shed  not received 
any compensation but I refer her to the three final response letters in which Lloyds says it 
had paid the sums into her bank account.  Ive seen no evidence  that Lloyds  didnt arrange  
the bank transfers  as stated. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7706855