K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the service shes received from TSB Bank  Plc in relation to a cash-
point (ATM)  withdrawal. Mrs R says no cash was dispensed by the ATM.  
background
Mrs R has a current account  and a savings account  with TSB. On 24 January 2019 she used 
the card associated with her savings account  to attempt  an ATM withdrawal for £200. Mrs R 
says the machine didnt dispense any cash.
A few days  later Mrs R noticed  her account had been debited with the £200 withdrawal. So 
she raised this with TSB. TSB initially credited her account  with £200 whilst they 
investigated. 
TSB say that by 6 February  2019 theyd completed their investigation and they wrote to 
Mrs R to tell her they would be re-debiting the £200  from her account. On 20 February  2019  
TSB took back the £200 theyd initially refunded. 
Mrs R says she never received TSBs letter. When they took the £200 back this put her 
savings account  overdrawn. So some further credits to that account  reduced the amount of 
the overdraft, but werent available for Mrs R to use. 
Mrs R complained to TSB who declined  to refund the £200. They said the ATM had 
balanced and there wasnt enough  evidence to support that the funds hadnt been 
dispensed. But they offered Mrs R £150 compensation which was made up of £100  to 
compensate for them being unable to send a duplicate of their initial  decision letter and 
delays in responding to the complaint. And £50 to cover any expenses  such as the cost of 
phone calls that Mrs R had incurred  in bringing  her complaint. 
Mrs T doesnt accept this and the matter was referred to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt  think  it should be upheld. She concluded that TSBs decision was fair in 
the circumstances and that the compensation was fair. 
Mrs R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator for essentially the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why. 
In cases like this I must  make my decision based on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened. Mrs Rs account differs when compared to the technical  evidence supplied by 
TSB and the ATM provider. The evidence shows that the ATM balanced when it was next 
checked following  Mrs Rs withdrawal. The ATM  provider explained that any funds not 
dispensed would have shown as a surplus. There was also no evidence that the ATM had 
been tampered with in any way. 
So overall, I find the technical evidence  more persuasive than Mrs Rs testimony. And I think 
its most  likely that the £200 was correctly dispensed  to Mrs R. I think  if there had been an 
Ref: DRN79990852error with the ATM that this would have been  recorded at the time. So it follows  that I think  it 
is fair for TSB to hold Mrs R liable for that amount.
I understand that Mrs R thinks TSB should  have  sought CCTV evidence.  Even if it were  
available I dont think CCTV would  have provided conclusive evidence. It likely would have 
shown Mrs R stood at the ATM (something  that no one disputes). But I think  it would be 
unlikely to have  shown whether or not cash was dispensed and if so how much.  I think  the 
log from the ATM would always have provided  better evidence.  And generally,  I wouldnt 
expect TSB to be responsible for gathering  CCTV evidence from an ATM they dont own. 
I can see from TSBs systems that they dispatched  a letter to Mrs R informing  her of their 
decision to hold her liable  for the ATM withdrawal  on 6 February 2019. So whilst I can 
understand that it was a surprise for Mrs R to find the £200  had been debited from her 
account  I cant  fairly hold TSB responsible for the letter  not safely reaching her. 
Once Mrs Rs savings  account had been  re-debited with the £200, it went overdrawn. And 
further credits to that account, some  of which had come from Mrs Rs family  members 
reduced how overdrawn the account was. But they werent available for Mrs R to use. 
Mrs Rs savings account doesnt have an overdraft facility. And so I dont think  TSB were  
wrong to use further credits to that account to reduce  the amount they were owed. I note that 
Mrs Rs current  account remained in credit  at the relevant time.  Mrs Rs statement doesnt 
record that TSB have  imposed any charges or fees in relation to the savings account.  So 
overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly  here.
I agree  with our investigator that the £150  compensation  that TSB have  already  paid is fair to 
compensate for the impact of the service failings  in dealing with this complaint. And so Im 
not telling  TSB to increase this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999085