K820x#14complaint
Mr K says that British  Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL for short) has treated him unfairly 
regarding his home emergency policy since 2014.
background
Mr K says that BGIL has treated him unfairly. He says his hot water storage unit started  to 
leak in 2014. He called on BGIL to look into the issue who advised him to replace  the 
storage unit. BGIL replaced this storage unit with different equipment, but from the same 
manufacturer as the original type of unit was no longer manufactured. 
Mr K says since  that time there  have  been  continuing issues  with the replacement 
equipment which culminated with him complaining in 2018. BGIL notes that the replacement 
equipment was serviced by it each year between  2014 and 2018 and found to be in working 
order. It makes  the point that throughout that time Mr K didnt call BGIL  out to deal with this 
replacement equipment. BGIL also point out that the boiler Mr K had was installed in 2002  
and since 2013  it has repeatedly recommended that is replaced. Mr K says there  is nothing  
wrong with his boiler.
Mr K is unhappy because he says that since 2014  hes not had the same  levels  of hot water  
or temperature of hot water since BGIL took out the old leaking unit. He says he didnt get a 
like for like replacement. BGIL say it did replace as close to like for like as it could and 
doesnt feel hes been treated unfairly.  Mr K feels he has been treated unfairly and wants the 
same levels of hot water and temperature of hot water that he used to have  through either 
further modifications or replacement. He says this is particularly  important  as he has a 
disabled wife who receives pain relief from hot baths. 
Mr K wasnt  happy so he complained. BGIL didnt agree. So he complained  here and the 
investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr K remains  unhappy, so this complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BGIL and Mr K dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what I think  is 
most likely to have happened. 
Having considered the entirety of the matter Im not upholding this complaint. I say this for 
the following  reasons.
I can see that when  the replacement  equipment was installed in 2014 there were some  
changes and modifications made to how it operated. But once the systems were up and 
running appropriately I can see that it operated and was serviced  annually  for some years. 
BGIL has pointed this out that during these years  of usage Mr K didnt call them out in 
relation to his hot water  provision. This timeframe included a number of winters. And if there  
had been ongoing problems Id have expected Mr K to have complained  at those times 
before when he did complain. 
Ref: DRN75249872Having considered BGILs arguments  regarding the choice of equipment  to replace that 
which was leaking in 2014 I note Mr K has quoted an online forum for the manufacturer 
which shows that there are two recommendations, one of which was installed and another  
option. BGIL has shown  it checked  with the manufacturers at the time and followed the 
manufacturers recommendation as the other option  wasnt available  in 2014 (only becoming 
available subsequently). So I dont think BGIL have treated Mr K unfairly  here.
Mr K is adamant that there is no issue with his boiler. I note it was installed in 2002 and that 
as early as 2013  BGIL  has recommended it being  replaced  to him. I can see that due to it 
not being installed by BGIL and being the age it is the replacement  of this boiler  is not 
covered by the insurance BGIL provides. So if the boiler isnt operating as it should  Mr K 
faces a significant cost in its replacement which he will have to bear.  I think  it possible that 
the boiler may be contributing to the issues Mr K is suffering. And by recommending its 
replacement BGIL has treated him fairly.
Mr K has argued for certainty on particular issues and asked for supporting evidence around  
what BGIL has said. However this service is set up to be an informal alternative  to the 
courts. I have considered the evidence  that both parties  have put forward  and I see no 
reason to challenge BGILs arguments particularly as they are supported by its 
contemporaneous records.
I understand the particular importance of hot water to Mr K and his wife. It seems clear  that 
Mr K faces further costs  to provide the amounts and temperature  of water he wishes. But I 
dont think it follows that BGIL  has treated  him unfairly in what  it has done. Ultimately  I am 
not persuaded the installation by BGIL  in 2014  was unfair on Mr K. And I think this is 
supported by the fact that Mr K didnt call BGIL about this issue  for some  years after the 
installation was set up appropriately. As a consequence of all of the above I think  BGIL  has 
treated Mr K fairly here. As such I wont be asking it to do anything  more. I appreciate Mr K 
will be disappointed by this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against British Gas Insurance  
Limited. So it needs to do nothing further  about this particular complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524987