K821x#15Complaint
Mr N has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) took 
all of his wages out of his account leaving him with around £50 each week  for bills and food. 
Mr N says that SNC shouldve taken  a reasonable amount towards  his repayment rather 
than the full balance because this forced  him to take out further loans. He also feels  SNCs 
interest charges  are deceptive.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision I sent on 
17 March 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.  Mr N accepted the findings  
made in the provisional decision and so didnt have  anything  further  to add. SNC didnt 
agree with the provisional decision and it provided  some further comments  it wanted us to 
consider.
Ive carefully considered  everything SNC has told us. In summary it said:
SNC clarified its position on how payments  are collected. It told us that customers  do 
not choose to enable  the auto-repayments feature  this is the default repayment  
system, but customers for whom this does  not suit can choose to repay in other  
ways.
It checked that Mr N had enough  disposable income to meet his repayments. 
It believes Mr N only borrowed more due to increasing his credit  limit. And his 
disposable income increased almost every month demonstrating an improving, rather  
than worsening, financial situation.
It believes Mr N was able to meet all his commitments and still maintain the kind of 
lifestyle he was used  to. 
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, having  reviewed the additional 
comments provided to us by SNC, I still think Mr Ns compliant should  be partly upheld  and 
Ive explained  my reasons below. 
I accept SNC has now clarified that the auto repayments is the default payment setting for 
these account.  However,  this didnt have any bearing on whether I thought SNC was correct 
in allowing Mr N to continue to drawdown  on the account. 
As our approach sets out, and for the reasons I explained in the provisional decision, SNC  
needed to monitor  Mr Ns facility to ensure he wasnt likely experiencing difficulties in 
repaying and using the facility.
A loan being pounds  and pence affordable at the outset doesnt  mean  the loan repayments 
continued to be sustainable for Mr N because through monitoring the account it may become 
apparent that Mr N wasnt able to sustainably make his repayments. And this is supported by 
Ref: DRN79073142the guidance in place  at the time the facility  was approved, for reference  Ive included the 
key parts  of this.  
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to consider the ability of the 
customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement  (like Mr Ns facility) , 
to make payments  within a reasonable period.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of 
things a lender  needs to bear in mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. 
Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm should  consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
And having reviewed  the evidence in this case,  Im satisfied this point  was reached by 
6 May 2017.  By this point,  Mr N had been given a higher  credit  limit on three occasions in 
around three  months  and he had requested 24 drawdowns within this time. So, in my view, 
the sheer number  of drawdowns as well as a number of credit  limit increases in a relatively 
short space of time ought to have indicated to SNC that Mr N was having some  problems. 
Ive considered what SNC says about  Mr Ns disposable income  and that this was increasing 
over time  based  on the review  of Mr Ns bank statements.  But had Mr N had enough  
disposable income, I think its reasonable to say that he wouldnt have needed to keep 
requesting monies  from SNC as soon as he repaid what he owed. Mr N was mainly 
borrowing either on the same day or within a few days of repaying what he owed. In my 
opinion, this indicates that Mr N may have been having some wider  money  problems likely 
intensified due to being paid a weekly income  because he was having to borrow on or near 
the days he was making  repayments to cover the hole left in his finances by repaying these 
drawdowns.  
Finally, SNC also says, based  on the information it can see in its access to Mr Ns bank 
statements that he was able to meet all his commitments and still maintain the kind of 
lifestyle he was used  to. Regardless of whether  Mr N was able to meet  his normal monthly 
commitments, this doesnt mean  SNCs facility  was sustainable for him and as Ive explained 
above and in my provisional decision the manner in which Mr N was using the facility ought 
to have been an indicator that Mr N was having difficulties.
So having  thought about the points SNC has made, these  havent changed my mind  about 
why I think Mr Ns facility should be upheld from 6 May 2017. So, for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN79073143outlined above,  and in my provisional decision I still think SNC was wrong to have continue 
allowing Mr N to use his facility from 6 May 2017.
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr N, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fee and charges from the current outstanding balance  
and then refund all the interest  and charges applied to Mr Ns facility from 6 May 
2017 onwards;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date 
they were date to the date of settlement*
 
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ns credit file from 6 May 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79073144EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr N has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading  as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  took all of his 
wages out of his account  leaving him with around £50 each week for bills and food. Mr N says that 
SNC shouldve taken  a reasonable amount towards his repayment  rather  than the full balance 
because this forced  him to take out further loans. He also feels SNCs interest charges  are deceptive.
Background
Mr N approached  SNC for a Safety Net facility in January  2017. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer  could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would  be deposited  into 
their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net amount  of the customers 
choosing.
Mr N was initially given a facility with a £350 credit limit in January 2017.  His limit was increased on a 
further six occasions with his last credit limit approved  for £1,000 by August 2017.  Mr N stopped 
using his facility in November 2017 and SNC has since told us that Mr N repaid  his balance in full in 
June 2018
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Ns complaint. He thought the checks  SNC carried  out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate. And he didnt  think  the way Mr N used his facility  was 
concerning. So he didnt think SNC had done anything wrong. 
Mr N disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for his complaint to be looked  into again. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered. Having carefully  thought  about  
everything Ive been provided with, Im intending  to partly  uphold Mr Ns complaint  and Ive explained  
my reasons for doing  so below.
From what Mr N has told us, I dont think he is disputing  that SNC shouldnt have given  him his 
facility. I think  his complaint  is more  about the information he was given at the start of his relationship 
with SNC  and what happened once his facility was approved. 
Mr N has specifically  raised the fact that SNC  took the full balance he owed  each month, leaving with 
him with no option but to borrow again. And that this meant  he was continuously repaying a large 
amount of interest each month on each drawdown  as the interest was capped for 40 days. 
SNC had a responsibility to monitor Mr Ns facility  and take action where signs of financial difficulty  
were apparent. At the time Mr N took out his SafetyNet facility, the regulation of consumer credit was 
the responsibility of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The consumer  credit sourcebook 
(section 6.7.2) says:  a firm must monitor the customers repayment record  and take action where 
there are signs  of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Our adjudicator didnt think SNC had done anything wrong whilst Mr N held his facility. But having  
reviewed Mr Ns borrowing history, I think there were signs that Mr N wasnt using  his facility in a 
sustainable manner  and that a pattern  had emerged in his use of the facility. And I think SNC  should 
have been aware of this by 6 May 2017  and halted any further  use of the facility  at this point.
Firstly, SNC  has told us that a consumer has a number  of options with regards to repaying  their 
facility. They can choose to repay their outstanding balance in full, pay what  they owed  in monthly 
Ref: DRN79073145instalments, or to repay a minimum amount which is normally around £20. SNC also,  says that if the 
customer chooses to have the automatic repayment function activated on their account, then the 
repayment is taken once there is an influx of funds  into the account  - which is designed to minimise 
interest repaid, and this explains  why repayments are normally taken when a consumer  is paid their 
salary. Finally, SNC says this automatic  payment function could  have been deactivated at any time by 
the consumer by using the dashboard on their on-line account.  SNC  also provided the option for 
consumers to make manual  repayments. 
I acknowledge that meeting  the full repayments each month  was a struggle  for Mr N. SNC has 
provided a credit agreement signed by Mr N at the point he took out his facility.  The credit agreement 
explains Mr Ns options  when making his repayments. And from his borrowing history, I can see he 
was initially making manual  repayments to SNC.  So, this leads me to think that SNC provided  Mr N 
with enough information  for him to make an informed decision  on how to make his repayments.  
However, this doesnt mean that SNC didnt  do anything wrong whilst Mr N held his facility. Ive 
looked at any patterns in Mr Ns borrowing history with a view to see if SNC should  have become 
aware that his borrowing had become unsustainable and somewhat, harmful.  
I dont have any concerns about Mr Ns initial use of the facility in February 2017. But from March  
2017, I think  Mr N was showing signs of a potential reliance on his facility.  I say this because his use 
of the facility increased significantly in March 2017. He used  his facility on 12 occasions,  borrowing a 
total amount of £725 whilst repaying £638.53. Mr N was generally requesting relatively small deposits.  
Whist this is not concerning on its own, I can see Mr N was generally clearing  his loan balance  in full. 
But within a couple of days and sometimes on the same day, he would  return  for further funds. This is 
important, because  when SNC  approved the facility, it was entitled to believe that Mr N would repay  
what he owed over a reasonable period of time. But a few months into his borrowing, it was clear  this 
was not happening.
In April 2017,  Mr Ns borrowing increased significantly again. This time he had borrowed a total of 
£1,050 over 8 drawdowns  whilst repaying a total of £1,178 for what  he owed  which  was nearly 
double the amount he repaid the month before. And he continued to request  further funds within  a few 
days of his repayments.  This was not the actions  of someone in a stable financial position. Although 
this wasnt  a payday  loan, Mr N was in effect  using the facility to borrow a series of loans and repay  
them in full like a payday loan. And this is something which SNC should have considered  when 
monitoring his facility. 
By 6 May 2017, I can see Mr N had been given a higher credit limit on three occasions in around 
three months  taking his limit from £350  to £590. He had also requested 24 drawdowns within 
around three months and by this point and he wasnt using his account  in the manner it was intended. 
In these circumstances, I think  SNC  should have realised that Mr Ns borrowing  had become 
unsustainable by 6 May 2017 and that there was a significant risk that he would continue  to use his 
account in the same  way going forwards. This is reinforced by the way he actually used his account 
after this point.  I can see Mr Ns credit limit was increased  a further three times taking his credit limit 
up to £1,000.  And it appears he was generally borrowing  his maximum credit limit each month,  whilst 
making repayments  equal  to a significant amount  of his weekly income.  
Having looked at the Terms and Conditions,  the amount of interest Mr N was liable for would be 
capped after 40 days. But given the way his facility  was managed, he was always being charged 
interest on every drawdown  because he repaid each drawdown within 40 days, meaning in this case  
the interest cap never came into effect.
Overall, I think  SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility  from 6 May 2017 and not allowed
Mr N to continue using it from this date. So I think Mr N has lost out as a result of SNCs
actions.
Ref: DRN7907314