K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc blocked  and subsequently closed his account -
without any explanation. Hes also unhappy that his credit file has been  negatively impacted.
background
Mr A opened  a current account  with Santander in January 2015.  
In April 2019, Mr A received late payment notifications  from his utility providers and a lender 
due to non-payment of his regular  bills. He contacted Santander and was asked to visit a 
branch with proof of identification  to find out what was happening. 
Mr A states that Santander told him his account  was blocked due to an alleged fraud that 
occurred with an account he holds with another bank. Mr A confirmed to Santander that he 
does hold an account with that bank, but the account details quoted by it didnt belong to 
him. 
In May 2019, after several conversations between Santander and Mr A, Santander  took the 
decision to withdraw  banking facilities from Mr A with immediate effect. Santander informed 
Mr A that his account would remain blocked and would be closed after 30 days. Mr A was 
required to contact Santander to transfer his credit balance elsewhere.  
Unhappy with Santanders lack of transparency  about the fraud  that had allegedly occurred, 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He also raised concerns about his credit  file being 
impacted. 
One of our investigators  didnt uphold the complaint. He found that Santander acted within  
its terms and conditions  and didnt find that it had recorded negative  information with 
external credit reference agencies about  Mr A. 
Mr A asked for the complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for largely the same reasons.
To be clear, this decision is only about whether  Santander did anything wrong, Ive not 
considered the actions  of Mr As other bank as it is not a party to this complaint.
Blocking the account
Santander blocked Mr As account in April 2019. It didnt need to give a reason to Mr A for 
this action. But Im satisfied from the information  Ive seen that it acted reasonably in
doing so. Santanders action was a commercial judgement to make  and here,  Im satisfied 
that it was entitled  to make that judgement.
Ive seen that Mr A was invited to provide some further evidence from his other bank. He 
couldnt because  he says he didnt hold the account details quoted.  I appreciate Mr A was 
unable to produce this information but Im satisfied Santander did try to get some  further  
evidence to support  Mr As assertion that he was not part of any alleged fraud. 
Ref: DRN76627252I also appreciate Mr A would have  gone to some  trouble to reorganise  his direct debits due 
to the blocks applied to his account. I dont find that this was avoidable considering  the 
action Santander  was obliged to take.  
Closure of the account
Santander wrote to Mr A to tell him it was closing his account and withdrawing banking
facilities. I find it didnt need to give him notice of its decision to close the account. I say this 
because Santander  was in receipt  of information  which reasonably  led to the conclusion that 
Mr A was in breach  of the terms  and conditions of the account. Specifically, clause 17.3 
says:
It is a condition that you do not.  e) act in a way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of 
fraud or other criminal  activities
And clause  17.3 allowed Santander  to close the account without notice if a condition  had
been breached.  However, Santander  decided to give Mr A 30 days notice before closing the 
account whilst the account blocks remained in place. I think  this was reasonable as it gave 
Mr A the opportunity  to withdraw his credit balance via bank transfer  very quickly after 
Santanders decision to close  his account.
Credit file
Santander has confirmed  that it hasnt loaded  any adverse information about Mr A with 
external credit reference agencies. Despite Mr As claim that his credit file has been 
impacted by Santander, Ive seen no evidence to suggest this. So, I dont find that Santander 
has caused any adverse effect on Mr As credit  file.
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont find that Santander have 
treated him unfairly by blocking  and subsequently  deciding to close his account. I also dont 
find it has acted incorrectly by limiting  the information it has shared with him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662725