K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed his wife to close a joint account  
they held despite there  being a no operations marker on it saying both their signatures 
were required  for any account  operation.
background
NatWest said in its final response that it hadnt made an error. It received a request to close  
the account and a Court order. A request to remove the no operations marker was made  and 
as the account  was one to sign the closure request was accepted, the no operations marker 
removed and the account closed. 
NatWest has also said it was obliged  to act in accordance  with the Court order.  There were 
no funds in the account at the time of closure. There was in fact a debt of £21.14 owed 
which has been written  off.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
NatWest allowed the other joint signatory on the account to close it without Mr S 
agreement. But he wouldnt  have been in a better  financial position  if the account  had 
remained open. 
The no operations marker stops  either  account  holder accessing money in the 
account. And there werent any cash withdrawals or transactions - except the 
application of bank charges - after the marker  was placed on the account.  The 
account closure hasnt  caused a significant impact.
He understands  Mr S frustration but NatWest  acted reasonably closing the account  
as it had a Court  order asking it to do so. It hasnt  done  anything wrong and he wont 
be asking it to do any more.
Mr S remains unhappy. In summary  he says he was told in the branch that a no operations  
marker would  prevent  any further  transactions happening and prevent the account from 
going overdrawn for which he would be liable. His personal circumstances mean that 
NatWests actions have  actually significantly impacted him. NatWest  shouldve told him of 
the lifting of the no operations marker  and account closure as he didnt subscribe to online 
correspondence. Hes unhappy with the way hes been  dealt  with. The Court  order says the 
parties must  agree to the closure. So, two signatures shouldve been  obtained.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Mr S was clearly under the impression from what  NatWest told him that the no operations  
marker would  stop anything happening on this joint account. And I can understand his 
frustration when he found out itd been closed without his agreement.
Ref: DRN75794562But Im not persuaded that the outcome wouldve been any different  or worse for him if he 
had been consulted about or told of the closure.  
Mr S says the Court order says both parties  must  agree to the joint account closure. But that 
isnt the case.  What  it actually says is that the parties have agreed they shall co-operate in 
the closure of all joint bank accounts  and the balance  or liability of any such  account shall be 
paid equally  by both the parties.
Given this I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably  by reconsidering the application  of the 
no operations marker and then closing the account based on one partys signature in line 
with the accounts original  signing  mandate.  
In addition Mr S hasnt suffered financially as a result of what  NatWest did or the account  
closure. There was no money in the account to be paid out to any party.  And in fact hes now 
actually better off by the account  being  closed as NatWest has written off the small balance  
owed of £21.14, half of which Mr S was liable for.
I understand Mr S strength of feeling.  Even so, taking everything  into account, I dont think  I 
can fairly or reasonably require NatWest to do anything more. 
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7579456