K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that a hire agreement  under  which a car was supplied  to him was 
misrepresented to him by Autorama UK Limited,  trading as Vanarama.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a hire agreement  with Vanarama that he signed  in 
June 2017. Vanarama says that Mr L complained to it in September 2018  that the 
agreement had been mis-sold to him. He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to 
this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He said that he 
was unable to show that there was a misrepresentation of the agreement. But Vanarama 
had agreed to give Mr L a £200  distress and inconvenience payment which he thought was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman  and says that he was 
told that he could  get a flexible credit agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says that he wanted a flexible credit agreement as he knew  that his circumstances 
would be changing.  He says that he explained his requirements to Vanarama and to the 
finance provider  before he ordered a car and agreed  to the hire agreement.
But theres no other evidence to show  that he told Vanarama that he wanted a flexible credit 
agreement. He electronically  signed  a suitability and statement of demands and needs 
document and a vehicle order confirmation  in June  2018. There  was no reference  in the 
statement to the flexibility that Mr L says that he required and in it he confirmed that he 
wanted to keep the car for 36 months and then hand it back. The order  confirmation showed 
that he was going to pay an initial rental of £1,626.66 for the car and then a monthly rental 
on £542.22 and that the term of the agreement was 36 months. The order confirmation 
refers to a 14 day cooling  off period but theres no other provision giving Mr L the flexibility  
that he says that hed explained to Vanarama. 
Mr L electronically signed a hire agreement with a credit provider three  days  later.  It 
contained the same payment arrangements as were  on the order confirmation  an advance  
rental of £1,626.66 and then 35 monthly rentals of £542.22. And the signature  box said:
This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. Sign it only if 
you want to be legally  bound by its terms.
Vanarama says that Mr L complained to it about  the cost of the agreement in September 
2017 and then asked for an early termination quote  in September 2018  as his monthly 
payments were too high. It says that he was dissatisfied with the quoted cost to terminate 
the agreement  early and then complained  that the agreement may have been mis-sold to 
him. But he didnt  complain that the agreement had been mis-sold to him until nearly fifteen 
months after the car had been  supplied  to him. Hed been in regular contact with Vanarama 
Ref: DRN73760362since the car was supplied to him but hadnt raised  his concerns about the agreement being  
mis-sold to him until September  2018.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement  was mis-sold or 
misrepresented to Mr L by Vanarama. But Vanarama has agreed to pay £200 to Mr L as a 
gesture of goodwill for the distress  and inconvenience that hes been caused.  Thats  more  
than I wouldve required it to do in these circumstances. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to take any other  action in response to Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part. And I order 
Autorama UK Limited, trading as Vanarama, to pay to Mr L the £200 that its already agreed 
to pay to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7376036