K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont  pay his home  
insurance claim for accidental damage to an underground pipe on his property. 
background
In January 2018 Mr P noticed flooding  in his rear garden. He appointed a local contractor 
who established that an underground pipe had been damaged by tree roots. The pipe 
carried surface water from an adjacent school playing field into the main  drain  at the front of 
the property. Mr P paid for the pipework to be replaced, and then made a claim to L&G for 
accidental damage.  L&G sent contractors out, who established that the pipe run didnt serve 
the building  so it couldnt be considered as an insurance claim. This was under the 
accidental breakage to underground  pipes part of the policy.
Mr P complained to L&G who advised him that it could only consider  the claim if he 
established that the pipes  were his legal responsibility. He contacted the school, local 
authority and water company none  of whom said they were responsible. Mr P referred this 
information back to L&G but it still declined the claim as Mr P hadnt shown that the pipe 
served the buildings.  Mr P in particular was unhappy that he was required to obtain the 
information if L&G was always  going to decline the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that L&G had acted fairly in that as the pipe 
didnt serve the property  under the cover for the damage in the policy it wasnt liable to pay 
the claim.
Mr P didnt agree, he pointed out that the definition of buildings  in the policy included pipes 
and that he had established that he was legally responsible for the pipe in question.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim here has been considered under the cover for accidental breakage of pipes in the 
policy which  is for Accidental  breakage to underground  pipes  or cables serving  the 
buildings.
Here the tests and investigations carried out by the contractors appointed  by L&G indicated  
that the pipe in question  operated  solely  to take surface water from the adjacent  playing 
fields. They  established  that it isnt connected  to any pipework  in the building removing or 
supplying any water to it. So as it doesnt serve the buildings there is no cover for the 
damage under the policy.
But this begs the question of why Mr P was asked to establish that he was legally 
responsible for the pipes. The accidental breakage term has an exclusion for Damage for 
which you are not legally responsible but if the claim was going  to be declined  any way it 
wasnt going to affect it whether or not Mr P was legally responsible.
I think the answer lies in whether the claim might  have been  covered for extended accidental 
damage for the buildings. As Mr P has pointed out, the definition of buildings  includes 
Ref: DRN70206412underground pipes  for which  you are legally responsible but doesnt mention whether the 
pipes needed  to serve  the buildings. It appears  from L&Gs  notes that it had in mind to 
consider accidental damage. But Mr P doesnt  have cover for extended accidental damage 
in his policy.
So I can understand it if Mr P feels that his time was wasted in trying  to establish legal 
ownership of the pipe.  And L&G didnt really  make it clear to him why it was asking for that 
information. But there may be a possibility of Mr P talking  some form of legal action to 
recover his costs even  if not recoverable under the policy.  So although I dont think  L&G 
handled his claim  very well, it did from the outset say it wouldnt be paying the claim  and it 
would have been useful to Mr P to find out about the legal responsibility for the pipe. I should 
emphasise that I havent made any determination about legal responsibility   Mr P would 
need to take legal advice  in that respect.
As there is no cover under the accidental breakage term of the policy  and as Mr P has no 
cover for this sort of accidental damage, I think that L&G acted fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Legal & General Insurance  Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7020641