K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  that Everyday  Lending  Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly and
that it has treated  her unfairly  in other  ways.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in February  2021  that I summarise  below.
Miss S was given a loan of £3,000 by EDL in January 2017. The loan was due to be repaid
in 36 monthly instalments  of about  £256.  The total amount payable, including  interest  was
just over £9,233.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
EDL needed  to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I said that EDL was required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks 
in order to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loan.
EDL asked Miss S for information  about her income and it requested  a payslip to verify her salary. 
EDL also acquired a credit report and reviewed bank statements from Miss S. EDL allowed around  
35% of her monthly income for regular living expenses and it calculated her monthly payments to 
outstanding creditors.  From what Id seen,  I thought  the checks that EDL carried out before it 
agreed to lend to Miss S were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, on balance,  I didnt think that EDL made  a fair lending  decision on this occasion.
EDL was aware from its checks that Miss S had at least 5 credit cards with outstanding
balances, loans from five different  short  term or payday lenders and she was persistently
overdrawn up to just below her £2,500 limit, incurring regular bank charges.
Miss S told EDL that she would clear the balance of three payday lenders with her loan.  I
accepted that this consolidation  would, to some extent, have reduced her monthly  outgoings.
But I thought EDL would have been  aware  that even after consolidating some  of her payday
lending debt. Miss S would continue to be indebted  with two other high cost loans, five credit
cards, a substantial overdraft and over £9,000 of new debt to EDL.
EDL calculated that the three payday loans being  consolidated had a total balance  of around
£2,491 - but Miss S would  have to repay over £9,000 to repay her £3,000 loan from EDL.  I
thought EDL ought reasonably to have been  aware from the information it had gathered 
about the way Miss S was managing  her finances that the consolidation of these payday 
loans by taking  further, costly lending was unlikely to help Miss S make  sufficient  inroads  
into her overall existing debt position  - and in fact it potentially increased  her indebtedness 
over the longer term.
The FLA Lending  Code 2006 says that factors which may show a high risk of a consumer
experiencing financial difficulty include spending  more than 25% of monthly  income on
credit. Even after consolidating  her payday  lending, Miss S would still be committing  around
24% of her monthly income to meet repayments to other creditors - and this was only on the
basis of making minimum payments to her credit  cards and not including the amount she
owed on her overdraft. I thought EDL ought to have realised that this did put Miss S at high 
risk of experiencing  financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN74281132In addition, EDL was aware that Miss S was regularly transferring money out of her bank
account because  she was building a house  overseas. It seems that over £2,000 was debited
from her accounts for this purpose  in the period covered by the bank statements provided to
EDL. It didnt seem to me that this regular financial commitment was fully taken into
account when  EDL assessed her disposable income. It seemed unlikely that Miss S would
have simply stopped building her house  for three  years - so I think  EDL ought to have fairly
realised that Miss S was likely to continue spending  on this project  whilst she was repaying
her EDL loan and that it would potentially considerably reduce her disposable  income each
month. I thought EDL also ought  to have  considered  the possible risk that Miss S might take
further high cost lending to be able to continue transferring money overseas to build her house.
I thought EDL ought fairly to have considered this consumers  financial circumstances  as a
whole and had it done so, I thought it ought to have realised that Miss S was struggling  to 
manage her finances.
I thought EDL focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Miss S on a
pounds and pence basis. But the lender was required to establish  whether  Miss S could  
sustainably meet her loan repayments  - not just whether  the loan payments were technically  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make  their repayments. But it 
doesn't automatically follow  this is the case. This is because  the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I thought on balance that EDL ought reasonably to have realised that Miss S was finding it 
very difficult to manage her financial position; that she was or was close  to becoming reliant 
on short  term/payday  lending  and other  credit  to meet her ongoing financial commitments 
and that it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay her loan over the 
extended loan term. I thought in these particular circumstances, EDL should reasonably 
have concluded  that it was not appropriate  to lend to Miss S. 
Miss S also complained  that the interest  charged  on her loans was too high. She says
she felt intimidated and embarrassed by her situation when the loan was arranged  so she
agreed to the high interest rate being  applied, even though she thinks  it was unfair.
I thought Miss S was aware  that she was taking  a high cost loan and I didnt  have enough 
information for me to say that I thought EDL acted unreasonably or unfairly in some  other  
way towards Miss S at the time.  But I didnt think Miss S will ultimately have been 
disadvantaged by what may or may not have  happened in the branch when the loan was 
agreed because  I was intending to uphold her complaint about the loan.
Miss S thinks its unfair that only the £3,000  capital  sum borrowed appears on her credit
report, rather than the full repayment figure of around £9,233.  Miss S says this led to other
lenders agreeing to lend to her, which she thinks wouldnt  have happened  if the full amount
repayable to EDL had been disclosed on her credit  report. Miss S says this has all
contributed to her debt spiral.
Ref: DRN74281133Im sorry  that Miss S found herself  in a difficult  situation. But it is standard  practice for only 
the capital sums borrowed to appear  on credit reports. Other lenders are likely to have
been aware that interest would also be payable on the EDL loan. And I didnt think  it would
be fair for me to hold EDL responsible  for how other lenders assessed the level of Miss Ss
debt when they decided whether or not to lend to her.
Overall, I hadnt seen anything which made me think that EDL acted unfairly  or unreasonably 
towards Miss S in some  other way. But taking everything into account, I didnt think  EDL 
should have agreed to provide the loan to Miss S. 
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Miss S says she 
accepts my provisional decision. She says she has fully repaid the loan. She also says that 
she thinks EDL hasnt  treated her sympathetically and she has had to pay more than she 
could afford.  I havent seen any response  from EDL to my provisional decision and the 
deadline for further comments is now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and Miss S for responding to my provisional  decision.
Ive not received any new information that changes my mind  about this matter.  Having 
carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen, I confirm  the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.   I uphold Miss Ss complaint about her loan 
and EDL should put things right.
Putting things  right
Miss S says she thinks  she has fully repaid the loan. I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss S to 
have repaid the principal amount that she borrowed, because  she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Miss S 
made as payments  towards the capital.
 
If reworking Miss Ss loan account  results in her having effectively made  payments 
above the original capital borrowed,  then EDL should refund these  overpayments with 
8% simple interest  calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have  arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled*.
If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss S.
Remove any adverse  information recorded  on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN74281134my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7428113