K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1990 Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage during a branch  meeting. At the same  time they 
also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage payments in the event they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost just over £15 a month and it provided a benefit split equally between  them   
50/50  of the monthly mortgage  payment.
The mortgage account closed in 1994.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that because  things happened  so 
long ago there wasnt enough evidence  to say that Mr and Mrs H werent most likely given a 
choice about PPI. And there was nothing  to indicate  the policy was unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs H disagree.  In summary they said:
their main complaint  is that PPI wasnt presented as optional.
Mr H had 12 months full sick pay; enhanced redundancy pay; several  thousand pounds  
in savings; and a private income protection policy - so they didnt need PPI.
The adjudicators  rationale was based on what they thought  or was likely  not based  on 
fact.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Firstly  it doesnt appear to be disputed that this was an advised sale where  BoS 
recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs H. This means BoS had to ensure the policy  was 
right or suitable for them based on their needs and circumstances at the time. And it also 
had to give Mr and Mrs H enough  clear and timely information about  the recommended 
cover so they could  decide if they wanted  to go ahead with it. Ive kept this in mind in 
deciding this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs H have said theyre  concerned about the rationale of the adjudicator in 
assessing their complaint  and that it was done on the basis of what they thought or was 
likely - not based on fact.
Ref: DRN78979852I feel it necessary to stress to Mr and Mrs H that this is entirely  the right way for the 
adjudicator to have  considered their complaint  and indeed  its how Ive approached  things.  
Ours is a fair and reasonable approach where we consider  the evidence  presented  by both 
parties to reach our findings.  But where  there  are gaps  in the evidence and there is missing 
information, we consider  what we think is most  likely to have happened in light of the 
evidence we do have.  I hope this allays Mr and Mrs Hs fears that their complaint was, and is 
now being, properly  considered.
did BoS make it clear to Mr and Mrs H PPI was optional?
As the adjudicator said, the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs H happened  many years ago. And 
their mortgage account closed  around 25 years ago too. Because  of this its not surprising or 
unusual that BoS no longer has any paperwork from the time  businesses arent obliged to 
keep records indefinitely.
So while I hear what Mr and Mrs H say about not been given a choice, given the passage of 
time and the lack of supporting information,  I cant fairly conclude  that PPI was presented to 
them as they say. I think its likely they were given a choice  but I can understand  why they 
cant now remember this.
was PPI suitable?
did BoS properly inform  Mr and Mrs H?
 
Whilst I accept  its possible that BoS might  not have taken all of the steps it should have to 
ensure PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, given what theyve told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it was wrong  of BoS to have recommended  PPI. I say 
this because:
Mr and Mrs H were both eligible for the policy.
they were both working  on an employed basis and in good health at the time,  so they 
werent caught by any significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  for example to 
do with existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances.
I think they had a need for cover. Mr and Mrs H say that Mr H was entitled to 12 
months full sick pay, enhanced redundancy pay, he had a separate  income 
protection policy and Mrs H had some  savings. 
While Mr H most likely  had a good  level of sick pay given his tenure with his 
employer, Im mindful that its very unusual for an employer to provide the level of 
sick pay he says he had  the same  goes for the level of redundancy pay. Im also 
mindful in terms of the savings Mr and Mrs H say they had that BoS records show  
they borrowed 100% of the purchase price of the property  they were  buying. And this 
was quite common at the time. But it does strike me as odd that Mr and Mrs H would 
choose to borrow  more money than necessary if they had ready access to savings 
not earmarked  for a specific purpose.
And while Mr H has more  recently referred to a private income  protection  policy  he 
had at the time, which he says means  they didnt need PPI, hes not been able to 
provide any supporting information or documentation about it. So Im mindful  of how 
much weight I can place on this.
Ref: DRN78979853So overall and having weighed things up carefully, I think PPI was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs H in any event. Mr and Mrs H were buying their first home and they borrowed 
significantly against the value of the property. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  
their sick pay and for up to 24 months if needed, so I think  it wouldve played a useful 
part in helping them  protect  their home at what would likely  be a difficult  time  any 
savings and other means they had at their disposal could be used to support other 
essential ongoing household expenditure.
At just over £15 a month the policy appears to have  been affordable, so its cost didnt 
make it unsuitable.
I accept given the lack of available  evidence and information that BoS might not have 
provided Mr and Mrs H with clear and timely information about  the policy, including setting 
out the cost. But for the reasons why I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  Mr and Mrs 
H wouldve been put off taking the policy out had BoS done anything  more.
So overall I dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to have recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs H and 
theres nothing to indicate  more likely than not - that it was mis-sold. It follows  that I find Mr 
and Mrs H have not lost out as a result of taking out PPI with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897985