K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about commission  payments made by Financial Administration  Services  
Limited (trading as Fidelity) to a third party, financial adviser.
background
Mr J invested £6,000 into a personal  equity plan with Fidelity in March  1999, following advice 
from a financial adviser.  Mr J is now aware that ongoing commission  has been paid from 
Fidelity to that financial adviser which he believes  is unfair. 
Mr J says he did not receive any ongoing advice  from the adviser and did not agree to any 
deductions being made from his funds. Mr J also says there  is a disparity  between  the 
charges applied to his account and that of his wife, despite the same  product having been 
taken at the same time. He relies  upon  this to show that Fidelity  have continued  to make 
commission payments.
Fidelity say they provided an execution only service for Mr J, which meant  they acted on his 
instructions. In line with Mr Js application for the investment, a third party financial adviser 
was added as a servicing agent. As at 1999  it was common practice for commission to be 
paid to third party intermediaries or brokers. A pre-arranged percentage of the platform  fee 
was paid to the financial  adviser on an ongoing basis, the balance  being retained by Fidelity.  
Following a change  in regulations in 2015,  ongoing commission payments stopped  and as 
no specific fee agreement  was received from the third party,  nothing  further  was paid to 
them. From November 2015, platform service fees were then charged  separately (as seen in 
the 2016 statement).  Where consumers held adviser-linked accounts  the fee was 0.25% per 
annum plus a £45 per annum investor fee. The fee for direct customers  was 0.35%. It was 
not until April 2018 that Mr J asked for the financial adviser to be removed from the account, 
his request was processed,  which meant the fees chargeable for his account reduced.
Fidelity have apologised for giving misleading  information in their initial responses, theyve 
now clarified that application form did not detail how much ongoing commission was paid to 
the third party  financial  adviser. Theyve apologised for the delay in providing the right 
information and have paid Mr J £30 in compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Fidelity had acted on the instructions  
given in the application form, to link the broker to the investment. At the time Mr J invested  it 
was common practice  for ongoing trail commission to be paid to brokers and so Fidelity  did 
nothing wrong  in making the payments. Whether  or not correct advice was given at the point 
of sale was a matter between Mr J and the broker. She noted that Fidelity did remove the 
financial adviser when  Mr J wrote  to them in April 2018, in doing so the fee structure 
changed as set out above. She thought  Mr J hadnt  lost out due to Fidelitys delay in 
responding.
 
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72392432This investment was sold through  a third party, financial adviser. So any mis-sale of the 
investment would fall to be dealt with by them. Fidelity are the product provider and they 
provided an execution  only service to Mr J. My decision is limited to their involvement only.
commission
The application form from the time records the name of the appointed broker (the financial 
adviser) and gives the following  instructions:
0.0% IC
2.5% COMM
Fidelity have clarified this meant there was no initial charge (IC) for the investment but 
commission (COMM) at 2.5% was payable to the financial adviser,  amounting to £150.  Mr J 
accepts that £150 was payable to the financial adviser in line with this agreement  but he 
requests a refund of the balance of the ongoing commission  payments.
Ive seen that a financial  adviser was appointed at the time of sale. The adviser has 
remained linked to the account,  until they were removed in April 2018.  It is clear from the 
face of the application  form and the statements  provided from 2011, 2016 and 2018 that the 
financial adviser remained linked  to the account. On balance, I am satisfied that Mr J knew  
or should known  that a financial adviser remained  appointed.
At the time Mr J took out this investment, it was common industry practice for trail 
commission to be paid to intermediaries, such as brokers, usually taken from the annual 
management charge.  In this instance, Fidelity  say that a pre-arranged  percentage was taken 
from the platform service fee and paid as ongoing  commission to the appointed financial 
adviser. Had no adviser been  appointed  Fidelity  would have retained the full platform service 
fee. There was no requirement on Fidelity  to share  information about the payment of 
ongoing commission at this time. The rules  changed only for new products bought after 31 
December 2012.
Im satisfied that Fidelity  changed its fees structure in response  to a change  in regulations in 
2015. Theyve explained that commission payments stopped but the platform  fees remained  
payable to Fidelity. The amount  of fees payable  varied depending on whether an adviser 
was linked to the account. Ive seen that Fidelity provided links to their fees structures  in 
each statement. And as Ive said, Mr J knew or ought to have known that the financial 
adviser had remained  linked as their details appeared on the statements.
When Mr J wrote to Fidelity in April 2018, they removed  the financial adviser from the 
account and the fees charged were  reduced  to those for direct customers, namely at 0.35% 
per annum.   
Mr J points to the fact that a different fee structure  was applied to his wifes account  for a 
period of time, but thats simply because her signed authority to remove the financial adviser 
was given at a later date.  
customer service
Ive seen that Fidelity  made an error in their initial response about the commission payments 
and there  were delays  in responding to Mr J. Fidelity have apologised for the delay in 
Ref: DRN72392433providing the correct  information to Mr J. Theyve  paid £30 for the inconvenience this has 
caused. I agree that Fidelity could have  handled this matter  better. Ive seen that theyve  
apologised and theyve  paid some compensation. I consider was fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking Fidelity  to do anything more. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J, but for the reasons  given above I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7239243