K820x#14summary of complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is that she was given  unsuitable advice by 2 Plan Wealth  Management 
Limited to transfer  her existing personal  pension  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).  
Her complaint is that it did so when the adviser knew she was considering  investing  in a 
Harlequin property  investment  once the transfer  was completed.  Her  claim is that such an 
investment was unsuitable and has caused her loss.
background to complaint
I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision and a later provisional jurisdiction decision that 
dealt with jurisdiction  and the merits of the complaint.  An  anonymised version of the second 
provisional decision is attached as an annex.  It sets out the reasons why I thought we can 
consider Mrs Hs complaint and why I thought it should not be upheld.
2 Plan has not commented on my provisional decision.  Mrs H does not agree with it.  Her 
solicitors have made a number of points on her behalf, including:
They agree  with my comments  about  jurisdiction.
They agree  that 2 Plan is responsible for the pension transfer advice and this means 
2 Plan was therefore obliged to consider the overall transaction.
They do not agree  that Mrs H is a relatively  sophisticated investor.
Mrs H does work in the financial services  industry but in a back office role.  She does 
not have the high level professional qualification I implied in my provisional decision.  
Mrs H does have some  qualifications  and does work with financial matters but that 
does not qualify her as a sophisticated  investor.
Mrs H has no knowledge of pensions  and is not an authorised person.
Mrs H was not a sophisticated client for the purposes of the rules and regulations  
relating to the promotion of UCIS investments.
There is no such category as a relatively sophisticated investor.  Mrs  H was simply a 
retail customer.
A SIPP was not suitable for her owing to its high charges.
It would  have been apparent to any reasonable and competent  financial adviser that 
if such a high risk investment were to fail (as was more  likely than not due to the 
nature of the investment) then the SIPP would have been unaffordable.   The  SIPP 
product was inherently unsuitable  for Mrs H.  
It is an aggravating factor that no plan or forethought was given to the use of rest of 
the money invested in the SIPP.  Approximately  £150,000 was transferred to it but 
only around £50,000 invested in Harlequin.   So too much was invested  in a UCIS  that 
is not suitable for anyone while the balance was left to be eaten away  by fees.
It was the view of the court in Burns v FCA and of the FCA in its public 
announcements that UCIS investments are unsuitable for the vast majority of retail  
investors such as Mrs H.
It is not disputed  that such  investments may be suitable for some investors but Mrs H 
is not one of them.
The fact that Mrs H and her husband  own two buy to let properties  is in no way 
comparable to the Harlequin investments.  They are the properties  they owned  
before they married  and which they decided  to rent out to provide an income.  They 
do not regard  them as investments.
It is not appropriate to rely on any evidence produced by 1 Stop.  That  business  was 
investigated by FCA and it was very critical of it.  
Ref: DRN74836992Mrs H wanted advice  on alternatives  to standard managed funds.  This did not in any 
way mean that she wanted to gamble with her pension by investing in a high risk 
speculative UCIS  investment that was not suitable for her circumstances or needs.
I said in my provisional decision that Mrs H did seek  advice and she had little in the 
way of conventional investments.  These points should have led me to conclude Mrs 
H was not a sophisticated investor and that the SIPP and investment were not 
suitable for her.
In other  cases other ombudsmen have concluded that such  investment are not 
suitable for unsophisticated investors  and that even when suitable any investment 
made should be no more than 5% of the portfolio.
It is accepted that hindsight  should play no part in any assessment  of suitability.  Nor 
should the fact that the investment was potentially a fraud.  It can only be viewed on 
the basis of Harlequin being a UCIS and that is enough.  As a UCIS it was inherently 
unsuitable from the outset and with a significant  if not likely risk that the investment  
would fail.
It is irrelevant what the state of the investment was at the time Mrs H invested.   The  
only relevant factor  is that a reasonable and competent  adviser  would have 
recognised it as a UCIS.  Such an adviser  would then have flagged  it up as too risky 
and unsuitable  for Mrs H.
It should be assumed  that a reasonable investor  would  not have invested if these 
matters had been drawn to her attention.  
Mrs H did not rely on any advice from the adviser he moved to the Caribbean  and 
was no longer regulated.
Mrs H denies she has any appetite for risk.
The later advice  from 1 Stop is not an intervening act.  1 Stop was not instructed to 
review the Harlequin advice and therefore  had no obligation to do so  as confirmed  
in Denning v Greenhalgh Financial  Services Ltd [2017] EWHC 143 (QB).
Mrs H had the remarkably bad luck in receiving two lots of unsuitable  advice in 
series.  Had 1 Stop never been involved the same losses would have been  suffered 
in relation to Harlequin.
my findings - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  we may deal 
with Mrs Hs complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional decision (annexed)  it is my 
finding that we can consider Mrs Hs complaint.
my findings - merits 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint.  And it remains  my view that it would 
not be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold the complaint.
My view remains as set out in my attached  provisional decision where I refer to the advisers 
as Adviser 1 and Adviser 2 and their separate company as the advisers company.  
My view is that Advisers 1 and 2 were  acting for their company not 2 Plan in relation to 
Harlequin.  Mrs  H authorised a payment to that non-regulated company from her SIPP  for 
that advice.  Given  Mrs Hs professional qualifications and experience I cannot accept that 
she inadvertently authorised payment  to the advisers company from her SIPP without  
understanding that the money  was being  paid to the advisers company and not 2 Plan.
Ref: DRN74836993However Adviser 1 and 2 were acting for 2 Plan in relation to the pension switch.   It remains  
my view that Adviser 1 gave advice on that switch.  And so it remains my view that as 2 Plan 
advised on the pension switch it should  have considered the plan to invest in the Harlequin 
investment. 
It is accepted by Mrs H that it is not right to use hindsight in assessing the suitability of the 
Harlequin investment  for her.  The point is made that regardless of the way things have 
turned out the investment should have been regarded as unsuitable because it was a UCIS 
investment.
I do not agree that things are that straightforward.  Neither the court  in Burns v FCA nor the 
FCA in its alerts etc said that Harlequin  is unsuitable  for all retail investors.  Both, in effect, 
say such UCIS investments are unsuitable  for most retail clients   not all.  So  the point is 
that cases have  to be considered individually.  And that is what I have done.
I do accept that UCIS investments were,  at the time, subject to additional rules meaning  they 
could not be promoted to all investors.   But they were not subject to a complete ban for all 
retail investors.  One category of investor to whom  they could be promoted at the time was 
investors for whom the adviser  thought  the investment was suitable.   
I agree  that a UCIS  investment is likely to be higher risk and unsuitable for most retail  
investors.  But it is also important to keep in mind  that UCIS  is not a single asset  class  as 
such.  It is important to think about  the underlying investment when thinking about  the 
suitability of a UCIS  and not just the fact that the investment  is unregulated  and a collective 
investment. 
I did not say Mrs H was formally  categorised as a relatively sophisticated investor.   I accept 
there is no such formal category.  I used the term as a description.   And  it remains  my view 
that it is an accurate  one.   
There is no requirement for an investor  to experience all the common types of retail 
investment in order to achieve any sophistication as an investor.   Not  doing what most retail 
investors do might be a sign of sophistication or it might not depending  on the 
circumstances.  So the point that Mrs H had relatively little experience of retail  investments 
does not automatically  lead to any conclusion.  Nor does the point that Mrs H sought advice.
On the second  point  it should be remembered that Mrs Hs version of events  is:
I was interested  in investing  some  of my pension  in investments, other  than standard  
managed personal  pension  funds.  We were recommended a financial adviser called 
[Adviser 1]
And on her behalf the following has been  said: 
Mrs H, and her husband, had initially received financial advice on separate matters 
from [name given], an independent financial adviser  and employee  and/or agent of 2 
Plan...  They subsequently  sought advice on investment  in property overseas.  At this 
stage [the existing adviser] informed them that he was not able to assist  but 
recommended another Adviser called [Adviser 1] 
So according to Mrs Hs version of events  she approached her existing adviser  to ask about 
investing her pension in something  other  than standard managed  funds such  as overseas 
Ref: DRN74836994property.  In my opinion this is not a usual requirement for an average retail investor.  And 
this is not the simple  buying of a holiday home  to use for holidays.  This was a non-standard 
investment idea for a pension to replace existing managed funds  the sort of investment 
that a retail investor  usually invests in.  
And the idea came  from Mrs H not her financial adviser or an unregulated holiday property 
salesman.  But  the existing  adviser was not willing or able to advise Mrs H on such matters 
and he referred her to another adviser  Adviser 1.  So Mrs H had in mind something that 
was not within the normal range of things  her existing independent financial adviser advised 
on.  Instead of deciding  to stick with her existing  adviser and the sort of things  he was 
prepared to advise  on, Mrs H wanted  to go beyond that range and was prepared to deal with 
a new adviser to do so.
As I have also mentioned  Mrs H worked  in the financial  services industry.  She  was not a 
pension expert and she was not a financial adviser.  But she does have some professional 
qualifications and many years of experience  in finance.   Mr H is also a qualified  professional  
and though the investment is not in his name he was also involved.
Mrs H and her husband  had properties which they let out.  It does not matter how this came 
about.  The fact is it meant they understood first hand things  like the need  for revenue to 
cover expenses including borrowing  costs and so on.  
Also Mrs H says she invested in the second  Harlequin property with Adviser  1s assistance 
in the Caribbean not his advice.  
None of these  matters meant Mrs H was so experienced and/or sophisticated  that she 
wanted to take the steps she was contemplating (ie what  became the pension  switch and 
first Harlequin investment) without any advice.   It does however mean that she was able to 
understand the risks involved in the overseas  property investment even though  it was held in 
a collective scheme rather than as an individual property  holding.  
It should be remembered that if a second property is to be used as an investment the 
investor will want to let it out when not occupying it in order  to try to maximise the return on 
the investment.   If that property is not situated  near the investor some sort of arrangement 
needs to be made to manage the letting.  And residential property  including holiday 
properties  cannot ordinarily  be held in a SIPP.   This  means that some form of indirect  
holding will be required in order  to invest via a SIPP.  So  investing  via a collective scheme 
that includes the management  of the property is not automatically wrong or a cause  for 
concern. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  in my view Mrs Hs personal  and professional 
experience meant she understood the investment and the risks it involved.  
Mrs H also understood she was investing,  initially, about a third of her pension  fund in the 
scheme.  She was willing and able to take those risks if she wished to do so.   
I do think the state of the Harlequin investment at the time of Mrs Hs investment was 
important.  But for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision I think  Mrs H would have 
invested in Harlequin if 2 Plan had drawn  her attention to the then known possible short 
comings of the scheme at the time.   
Ref: DRN74836995A SIPP was a suitable way of achieving Mrs Hs objectives. The fact that Mrs H did not yet 
have plans to invest the other two thirds of the money in the SIPP  did not mean the switch to 
the SIPP was unsuitable and should  not have  been  recommended by 2 Plan.
It remains my view that if 2 Plan had considered  the suitability of the Harlequin  investment it 
would not have been obliged to advise Mrs H not to invest.  I do not therefore consider  that it 
is fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against 2 Plan.   I say this regardless of 
the later advice received from 1 Stop.  
my final decision 
It is my decision that we can consider Mrs Hs complaint against  2 Plan Wealth Management 
Limited but I do not uphold that complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN74836996ANNEX
background to complaint
Mrs H provided  background information that included the following:
I was interested in investing some of my pension  in investments  other than standard, 
managed personal pension funds.  We were recommended a financial adviser [Adviser  1] 
who was affiliated  to 2 Plan.  We met Adviser 1 in early  2010 and he recommended  various 
investments, including Harlequins [sic].
Adviser 1 accompanied my husband and I to a Harlequin presentation  Subsequent to this, 
and based on advice from Adviser 1, I took the decision to transfer my personal  pension to a 
SIPP and use part of it to put down  a deposit  on a Harlequin unit on the Marquis estate in St 
Lucia.  Adviser  1s advice was to use the SIPP fund to pay the deposit,  and then for the SIPP  
to borrow the balance of the purchase price, when required.  I  was advised  that the pension 
could borrow the balance of the purchase price,  when required.  I was advised  that the 
pension could  borrow up to 50% of its value, and based on a financial model  produced by 
Adviser 1, projecting  value and returns from the property, this suggested there would  be no 
issue for the SIPP to borrow the balance (70%)  of the purchase price  required,  to be paid in 
instalments at various stages of the build  of the property (with the option to defer until final 
completion), and additionally that the investment  should provide  ample return to service  the 
loan within the SIPP.  We were advised that the loan required  for completion would  be 
arranged by Harlequin, who would be arranging  for all purchasers.  The  target  completion 
date for this property  was 31 December 2013.
I therefore  transferred  my personal pension  to a SIPP with Rowanmoor in June/July 2010,  
and subsequently the SIPP paid the 30% deposit required for a one bedroom unit at 
Harlequins Marquis estate in St Lucia  the amount of £49,500 was paid by way of deposit.   
I do not know  whether Adviser  1 was paid a commission  by Harlequin,  but £1,000 was paid to 
him for the advice, from my SIPP.
We subsequently asked Adviser 1 for advice on how to invest the balance of the SIPP fund 
which had not yet been invested, and various investments were suggested but none entered 
into.  Adviser 1 and [Adviser 2] emigrated to the Caribbean in late 2010.
As a perk of investing  with Harlequins  [sic], my husband and I were offered a holiday at the 
Harlequin Buccament  Bay resort in St Vincent.  We took up the offer, and on holiday we 
struck up a friendship  with [name given,  who] was a selling agent of Harlequins  [sic] 
properties.  We understood from the time we spent with him on holiday that he was a financial 
adviser.
I still had significant funds held in the Rowanmoor SIPP  in cash, which had yet to be invested.   
[Named selling agent] seemed like a decent,  sensible, and competent individual, so once we 
were back  in the UK we contacted him to see if he could give advice on further suitable SIPP  
investments.  We had 2 or 3 long meetings with [him]  in London.  At the conclusion of the 
meeting I accepted [the selling agents] advice  to proceed with other investments out of my 
SIPP   Additionally  at that point  I transferred  my SIPP  from Rowanmoor , in part to allow 
the split of the original Harlequin  investment,  such that the SIPP would own 30% of the 
property and I would own the remaining 70% personally
 [The selling agent] worked with an FSA regulated  firm, 1Stop Financial.  They provided  the 
paperwork to enable the transfer of the SIPP  from Rowanmoor,  the necessary  transfer of 
ownership of the Harlequin property from the SIPP,  to split ownership: 30% SIPP  and 70% 
me personally, as well as the paperwork for the other investments.
Ref: DRN74836997In addition, shortly after our holiday to Buccament Bay, we decided to purchase another  
Harlequin property  We had not yet contacted [the named selling  agent] and so [Adviser  1] 
assisted with finding us a resale unit, which we subsequently purchased personally
In terms of documentation provided in relation to the Harlequin investment, we received a 
professional brochure from Harlequin during the presentation  we attended  In addition, 
Adviser 1 provided  us with a spreadsheet showing financial projections  for an investment in a 
Harlequin unit.  Adviser 1also  initially  provided  regular email updates on Harlequins [sic] and 
its various projects.
In the event, the Harlequin Marquis Estate development  has not been built and the project is 
in liquidation.   Investors  have  been formally trying to recover  their money  from Harlequin  
since at least mid-2015 and the project has been  in liquidation since 2017.  
The advice from 1 Stop to transfer  away from the Rowanmoor SIPP,  with the in specie 
transfer of the Harlequin investment, was in January 2011.  The transfer was in around April 
2011 and the remaining funds in the SIPP invested  in around May 2011.  So  this was within 
a year of the transfer from the personal  pension to the Rowanmoor SIPP.  
The second  round of advice was subject to a separate complaint against 1 Stop but as that 
firm went into default the matter was referred to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.   
my view  - jurisdiction
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint.  I have also taken into account evidence I have seen about Adviser  
1 and Adviser 2s separate  limited company I will call the advisers  company in another case  
I am considering.
In another case I have  seen a marketing letter from the advisers  company from November 
2009 ie shortly before the events in this complaint.  That letter said:
As many of you will know, the primary aim of [the advisers company] Ltd is to assist  people 
in achieving their own Financial Independence  whatever that may mean  for them.  Since  
some strategies require using products and structures that are regulated by the FSA,  we have 
to use an FSA regulated company to advise on and transact these  instruments  hence our 
association with 2 Plan as the regulated  firm.
But over the years, often from our bitter experience,  we have recognised that regulated 
investments and their managers  do not hold all the answers (if indeed any in some cases!) 
and we look to other strategies to make Financial Independence a reality rather  than the 
dream it is for most.  Those  on our Financial  Independence Programme will know what I 
mean when  I say that often just the formulation of a plan alone demonstrates some harsh  
realities that lead people to alternative  strategies and investments.
we prefer to buy assets that are providing a secure or even guaranteed yield, and that have 
some level of underlying protection or evidence  that the value is unlikely to fall still further.
This inevitably led us to property and as an asset class and, over the years, this is where 
much of our Financial  Independence has come from.
below I have outlined some projects and a strategy based on the if I were  you basis
Ref: DRN748369981.Caribbean   over the past few months, I have many conversations with friends, 
clients and advisers as to where the best opportunities lie.  The Marquis Estate in 
St Lucia would have to be my first choice  for capital growth, income  and personal 
usage.  As a start to finish 5 star business model, with partners like Gary Player, Pat 
Cash, Liverpool Football Club etc, it is second to none.
2.Detroit - £36K per property.   Essentially, buying affordable  housing outright with no 
borrowing
3.Other  parts of the US - As Detroit  but with actual guarantees
4.Rotunda Land  Florida
5.Fort Myers Condos  Florida
6.Cyprus  apart from some attractive tax breaks, there are great opportunities  to take 
advantage of the growth  that Cyprus is beginning to see
This letter was consistent  with some other  evidence  which was particular to the complainant 
in that case and which I do not need  to go into here.  All I need to say is that I was satisfied 
in that case that Adviser 1 and Adviser 2: 
intended to operate  through 2 Plan in relation to FCA regulated matters and through  
their company in relation to matters that are not regulated,
and they (mistakenly) regarded investments in Harlequin as a matter that is not 
regulated meaning they dealt with it through their company.
the Harlequin  investment, part 1:
In this complaint  as I explained in my provisional  decision  there is no direct evidence about  
who gave the advice to invest in Harlequin   whether it was advice from 2 Plan or the 
advisers company.   There  is however circumstantial evidence  that the advice was given by 
the advisers company.  And that is consistent with the way of doing things set out in the 
above letter.
It remains my view that the advisers  company advised Mrs H to invest in the Harlequin 
investment.  I say this for a number  of reasons:
I know Adviser 1 was familiar with Harlequin  investments and recommended them to 
other clients.  Mrs  H says Adviser 1 accompanied her and her husband  to a 
Harlequin presentation and that after that she decided to invest  in Harlequin  based 
on Adviser 1s advice.  I accept that is so.  The issue is in what capacity was Adviser  
1 acting?
 
Mrs H said she only dealt with Adviser 1 because she was introduced  to him by her 
existing 2 Plan adviser and because she checked on the FSA register where  she got 
confirmation that he was an appointed representative of 2 Plan.  And  she was only 
prepared to deal with him in that knowledge and on that basis.
However Adviser 1 was not an appointed  representative of 2 Plan.  The  FSA/FCA 
register showed he was acting  on behalf  of 2 Plan, that he was an employee or agent  
of 2 Plan itself,  not an appointed representative of 2 Plan.
The advisers company was not an appointed representative of 2 Plan.
Mrs H did have dealings with the advisers  company  as she wrote  a letter to Adviser 
1 giving some instructions in relation to Harlequin and the Rowanmoor SIPP.
Ref: DRN74836999Mrs H also authorised  a payment to the advisers company from the Rowanmoor 
SIPP by endorsing an invoice on the advisers companys note paper.
Mrs H works  in the financial services industry.  I cannot accept that she 
inadvertently authorised a payment of £1,000 to the advisers  company  from her 
SIPP without having some understanding that the money was being paid to the 
unregulated firm  the advisers  company - and not the regulated  firm 2 Plan - the 
firm she says she wanted to deal with.
Further, Mrs H took Adviser 1s advice  in 2011  after he had moved to the Caribbean 
and Mrs H knew he was no longer regulated in the UK.
I cannot therefore accept that the capacity  in which Adviser 1 acted  was so crucial a 
matter for Mrs H, such that she would not have dealt  with Adviser 1 in anything but a 
regulated capacity.  
The fact that her existing 2 Plan adviser  could not or would not advise on the type of 
investments she was interested in tends  to indicate that she was seeking something 
that was in some way not usual or routine for a 2 Plan adviser.
Mrs H did authorise a payment of £1,000  to the advisers company for introductory 
services. 
In the other case I mention I have  seen an identical invoice for £1,000  for 
introductory services  without further elaboration.  But  in that case  the covering 
email from the advisers company said the invoice was for the introduction of the 
Merricks Estate Project.  This was in January 2009 and the Merricks Estate Project  
was a Harlequin investment in Barbados.
There is no direct evidence  2 Plan (or rather Adviser 1 and/or Adviser 2 acting in their 
capacity as agents of 2 Plan)  advised on the Harlequin investment.  There  is no 
evidence recording such advice and no evidence  2 Plan was paid for such advice.  
The advisers company  was a sub-agent for Harlequin and it, not 2 Plan, was paid 
£1,000 by Mrs H.
On balance the evidence shows it is more likely than not that Adviser  1 was acting  in 
his capacity as an employee or officer of the advisers company when he advised  on 
the Harlequin investment.  
However that is not the end of the matter. There is still the matter of the advice to set up the 
Rowanmoor SIPP and transferring the existing  personal pension  to it.  
the SIPP advice:
There is evidence of some involvement of 2 Plan in relation to the Rowanmoor SIPP.   Again  
there is no direct evidence to support the claim that the advice  was given by Adviser 1 or 2 
acting for 2 Plan.   There  is however some circumstantial evidence that supports that view:
While  Mrs H has said that she wanted  to invest her pension in something  other  than 
standard managed funds, and she works in financial services, I accept she has no 
particular expertise in pensions.  
Ref: DRN748369910On the face of it, a SIPP was likely to be a suitable proposition for Mrs H but there is 
no evidence that she personally selected  a SIPP from Rowanmoor on an execution 
only basis.  It is far more likely that this transaction was the result  of a 
recommendation from Adviser 1 (or 2) as Mrs H alleges.
It was Adviser 1 and 2s stated way of operating (as seen in another case) that the 
advisers company  would  deal with unregulated matters and 2 Plan would deal with 
regulated matters.  
The law relating  to collective investment schemes is complex.  The  investment into 
real property  is not usually a regulated  investment.  It is understandable that the 
advisers company  may not have appreciated that Harlequin was a collective 
investment scheme and that advice to invest in it was regulated advice.   And there is 
evidence that it did not understand in the form of the marketing  letter, quoted above.  
The position in relation to advice to set up a SIPP, and transfer  an existing personal 
pension to it, was not however in the same category.   This  would have  been  clearly 
understood by any regulated financial adviser that this was regulated  investment 
advice.  And there is no evidence  that Adviser 1 or 2 did not understand this at the 
time.  So according to their stated way of operating this advice should have been  
given by them acting  as 2 Plan agents.
As I understand  it, at that time Rowanmoors normal practice was only to accept 
business from authorised financial advisers.   It is more likely than not that Adviser  1 
and 2 would  have known this at the time.
Rowanmoor has said the payment out to an unregulated firm (the advisers company)  
was contrary to its normal practice.
2 Plan was recorded as Mrs Hs financial  adviser  on the SIPP  application form.
2 Plan was recorded as Mrs Hs financial  adviser  in relation to the SIPP by 
Rowanmoor.
While  it is the case that 2 Plan did not receive any payment from Rowanmoor that 
does not in itself prove that it did not give the advice to set up the SIPP.
The fact that Rowanmoor  made  a payment to the advisers company from the SIPP 
on Mrs H instruction  does not in itself prove  that the advisers  company  gave  the 
SIPP advice.  The payment could have been, and does appear to have been,  for the 
introduction of the Harlequin investment rather than the advice to transfer to a SIPP.
If the payment  of £1,000 was for the Harlequin  advice that may mean the SIPP  
advice was unremunerated.  That is odd but it does not mean Adviser  1 and 2 were  
not giving  the advice  as 2 Plan advisers.   It may well be that Advisers 1 and 2 were 
paid further commission in relation to the Harlequin investment that they did not 
disclose to Mrs H.  Certainly it is known that high levels of commission were paid out 
to Harlequin master agents.  And  so some  payment  from the master  agent to the 
advisers company  does  seem  possible or even likely.  In  such circumstances  
Adviser 1 and 2 may have been  content  with the level of income  they obtained from 
the overall deal without worrying  about commission from Rowanmoor.
Ref: DRN7483699112 Plan says any pension switch recommended  on its behalf should have been  
submitted to 2 Plan for approval.  And so should any advice to invest in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). This may help to explain why 
Adviser 1 and 2 did not seek any commission from Rowanmoor  it would have led to 
a payment to 2 Plan and then attention  and scrutiny  from 2 Plan that they may have 
wanted to avoid.
The fact that an agent acts in a way that is contrary to the interests of his principal 
does not automatically  mean that the principal is not responsible  for the acts of the 
agent. (I will return  to this point later.)
On balance I think there is enough evidence  to say that Adviser  1 and/or Adviser 2 advised  
Mrs H to set up a SIPP with Rowanmoor and transfer her existing personal pension  to it in 
their capacity as agent for 2 Plan. This means that I may consider the complaint about the 
advice to set up the SIPP  and transfer of the existing pension to it against 2 Plan.
the Harlequin  advice, part 2:
Further, it has been made clear by the regulator  that at the time of the events in this case  a 
regulated adviser  giving advice to set up a SIPP  should  be mindful of the suitability of the 
entire transaction.  
In an Alert published in January 2013 the FSA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some  financial advisers are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk, often highly illiquid unregulate d investme nts (some which may be in Unregulate d 
Collective Investment Schemes) . Examples of these unreg ulate d investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice  generally requires conside ration 
of the other investme nts held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a product which 
is a vehicle for investme nt in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), conside ration of the 
suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the expected unde rlying 
investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to financ ial adviser s 
that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in impleme nting a wider 
investment strategy the pension transfer must take account of the overall investme nt 
strategy the custom er is contemplating .
For example, where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowi ng that the custom er will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investm ent 
must form part of the advice  about whether the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
Ref: DRN748369912takin g into account the individual circumst ances of the custom er, the original pension 
produc t, including its underlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the custom er, then the SIPP 
is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
Although the Alert was published after the advice in this complaint in 2010  it relates  to the 
rules that were in force at that time.  The Alert does not create new,  or alter any existing, 
obligations.
In this case Adviser 1, acting as a 2 Plan agent, was aware of the intention  to invest in 
Harlequin using  money  from the personal pension  that was to be transferred to a SIPP.  So  
the suitability of the overseas property  investment  should have formed  part of the advice 
given by 2 Plan.
2 Plan was a whole of market adviser.  It has said that advice to transfer pensions and 
advice to invest in UCIS  should have been referred  to it to approve.   It has not said that it 
had a blanket policy of refusing to authorise any such advice.  It has however  said that the 
Advisers 1 and 2 were acting outside  the scope of their authority by failing to get such 
preapproval.
Were the Advisers acting  outside  the scope  of their authority?
The Advisers were agents of 2 Plan.  They were not appointed representatives.  The  normal  
law of agency therefore applies rather than the law relating  to appointed representatives.
I have seen a copy the agency  agreement between 2 Plan and Adviser  1.  I have not seen 
the agency agreement with Adviser 2 but assume it is the same in all material  respects.
2 Plan says the agency agreement is commercially sensitive and asks that I do not share it 
with Mrs H or her advisers. 
I may, under the rules  under which I operate, receive evidence in confidence.  I may provide 
a summary or description of the relevant evidence.  I have  considered the agency 
agreement.  2 Plan says Adviser 1 was acting  outside the scope of the agreement  because:
he was required to comply with certain  processes (pre -approval of pension switching 
and UCIS)
he was required not to carry on a business similar to or in any way competitive to 2 
Plan.
Agency is a relationship between two persons where one (the principal) expressly  or 
impliedly allows the other (the agent) to act on his behalf so as to affect his relations with 
third parties.  All others are third parties.   In this case 2 Plan is the principal.  Adviser 1 is the 
agent and Mrs H is a third party (as is Rowanmoor).
Ref: DRN748369913The agreement is several pages long and contains many provisions.  The appointment 
clause says 2 Plan appoints  Adviser  1 to be its agent to provide the Services and the 
adviser agrees  to provide  the Services  to 2 Plan in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Agreement.
The term Services  is defined as the services provided by the Adviser under this 
Agreement, including but not limited  to selling Products to Clients  
Some of the advisers  duties and services set out in the agreement include:
to provide the Services with all reasonable care and in a professional  manner  
to procure the sale of products in accordance with any guidance and policies adopted 
by 2 Plan from time to time 
to ensure as far as he is able that clients can meet the financial obligations they enter 
into
to keep detailed  records and comply with 2 Plans file management and quality 
standards
to pay any commission received from third parties to 2 Plan.
The agent  also agrees:
not to breach any rules or regulation  of the FSA
or carry on any business that is similar to or competitive with the business of 2 Plan.
The allegations in this complaint amount  to allegations of breaches of all or most of these 
provisions.  
Does that mean Adviser 1 was acting outside  the scope of his authority as 2 Plan says?  In 
my view it does  not.  2 Plan have conflated two issues.  One is acting in breach of the terms 
of the agency  agreement  and the other is exceeding the scope of the authority given to the 
agent under  the agreement.  One  is a matter  that is internal to the relationship between 
agent and principal and the other  is external and can affect third parties.  If this were not the 
case there would  be no need for the indemnity clause the agency agreement  also contains 
in which  Adviser 1 agreed to indemnify 2 Plan for any loss it suffers as a result of its reliance  
upon his skill, expertise  and experience and the accuracy of his representations and 
statements.
If 2 Plans interpretation were correct it would not be liable if Adviser  1 gave unsuitable 
advice to a customer  in breach of FSA conduct  of business rules and (most likely) 2 Plans  
guidance and policies, and his obligation  to 2 Plan to provide  service to it with reasonable 
skill and care.  That cannot  be right.  
The clients  of 2 Plan are entitled to common law and regulatory protections in just the same  
way as the clients of a regulated firm that acts through employees  rather than agents. It 
cannot avoid such liability by saying the agent  acts outside its authority if it gives unsuitable  
advice.  
2 Plan may have  a right of action against  the agent  but that is a different matter.   It does  not 
concern the client  and it does not concern my jurisdiction  to consider this complaint.
Ref: DRN748369914I do not accept that giving alleged unsuitable advice, even if contrary  to some internal 
requirement to first get the advice checked, is advice that is beyond the scope of the agency 
agreement if the advice is of a type that is normally  within  the scope of the agents authority.    
I note that the court  came to a similar  view in the closely  related issue of the authority of an 
appointed representative under s.39 Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000.  In Adam 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC Mr Justice Jacobs said:
139. I agree with the Claimants that the authorities  indicate  that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility.  The  fact that there may be actual authority for a particular  transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko ), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  need  to be fulfilled before a product was offered, does not mean the 
transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant business for which 
responsibility is taken.  Equally, the approach  must not be so broad  that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.  (my emphasis.)   
I cannot see that Adviser 1 and 2 having their own business, the advisers  company,  is any 
different as regards the scope of their authority as agents.  
In my view, giving advice  on the setting up of a SIPP  and the advice to transfer an existing 
personal pension  to it is within the scope  of the agency  agreement in this case.
It is therefore my view that I can consider a complaint about the SIPP  advice against  2 Plan.  
And the SIPP complaint may, and does, include the complaint that 2 Plan should have 
considered (and advised against) the plan to invest in the Harlequin  investment. 
my view  on the merits  of the complaint:
In forming my view about whether or not we can consider this complaint  I have  also 
considered all of the evidence  and arguments  in order  to decide what  is fair a reasonable in 
all of the circumstances of the case.  And it is my present view that it would not be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold the complaint.
the SIPP:
Mrs H is a relatively sophisticated investor.  She  works in financial  services,  though  she is 
not involved with pensions, nor with retail  investment advice, as far as I am aware.   She had 
certain ideas about her pension but was not so certain about them  as to just carry them out 
without advice.  She says:  
I was interested  in investing  some  of my pension  in investments other  than standard,  
managed personal  pension  funds. 
This was a view Mrs H was entitled  to come to and on the face of it a SIPP would  be the 
right way to go about fulfilling  this objective.   And there is no complaint about  the 
recommendation of the Rowanmoor (as opposed to any other) SIPP as such.
Ref: DRN748369915the investment:
In a Harlequin brochure it described its property investments  as follows:
Investing in a Harlequin property
Harlequin Hotels & Resorts  sells freehold investment properties within its 5 star hotels and 
resorts in the Caribbean.
These properties are used  for accommodation within Harlequins  hotels and resorts and 
therefore generate a rental income.  A rental guarantee of 10% of the original purchase price  
is provided for the first two years, paid from completion, followed by a 50% net room rate 
share ongoing.  Investors are able to occupy their property for 30 days  each year without 
charge.*
 properties are suitable  for SIPP investment.  A SIPP is a self-invested personal pension 
enabling the investor to choose where their pension fund is invested.*
*Investors using a SIPP are not entitled to occupy their property for 30 days during the year 
without charge.
Mrs Hs investment was in described  on the contract  for sale as:
The property is numbered [number given] located on the Ground Floor.  The property will 
have a built up area of approximately 827 square feet consisting of a bedroom, a living  room, 
a bathroom and a terrace and shall be sold freehold.
There has been much adverse comment about  Harlequin and the advice to invest with it.  
The Serious Fraud Office  has been investigating Harlequin for some  time.  And I note that 
the FCA issued  a warning  about it in June 2013.   It included the following:
We have seen an increasing  number  of Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) schemes 
whose underlying investment is in an overseas  property  purchased through Harlequin  
Property, a UK based overseas property sales agent that is not regulated by the FSA.
Our expectations  where  financial advisers recommend overseas  properties purchased 
through harlequin Property
When advising a customer to invest in any overseas property investment  through  the 
customers personal pension or a recommended pension scheme,  financial advisers have to 
ensure that they give careful consideration  to particular features of the investment in question.  
This applies generally including in relation to advice on any overseas property investment 
sold by Harlequin  Property.
For example, if a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will sell 
current investments  to invest in an overseas  property, then just how suitable  the overseas 
property investment is must form part of the advice to the customer.  If, having  taken into 
account the customers  circumstances, the financial adviser believes that the original 
investment is more suitable  for the customer than moving to an overseas property, then the 
financial adviser must explain why the investment in the overseas  property via the customers 
SIPP is not suitable for the customer.
Ref: DRN748369916What to do before recommending  an overseas property  investment through Harlequin  
Property
In order  to make sure a recommendation to invest in an overseas property investment is 
suitable for their customers,  the FSA expects advisers to have  undertaken thorough  due 
diligence on the various developments being sold through harlequin property to fully satisfy 
themselves that it is a suitable investment taking into account  relevant factors.  This should  
involve:
-consideration  of how building work is progressing  on the various sites and any factors 
involved in reported delays to completion;
-establishing precisely how their customers funds  will be used  during the construction  
phase and the terms of the purchase agreements;
-a full assessment  of all publically available information about the overseas property 
investments through  Harlequin property and on all the parties associated with the 
investments.
Advisers must also meet their standard obligations to consider the customers personal 
circumstances and all other relevant factors  to ensure the recommendation is suitable.
I note that in the case of Burns v FCA [2018]  UKUT 0246 the Upper Tribunal said the 
following about the business  model of a group of firms that had recommended  Harlequin 
investments:
273. It would  have been readily apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by 
interests in a defined benefit scheme or in a personal  pension  invested in a spread  of 
traditional investments,  to switch his benefits into a SIPP  which was wholly invested in either  
a single  or very small number of inherently  risky overseas property investments was a wholly 
unsuitable course of action for the investor to take  
This is strong  criticism but the reasoning should be noted.  The  court did not for example say 
that Harlequin investments were so fundamentally  flawed  that they should never have been 
recommended to anyone, ever, for their SIPP.  Nor  did the FSA warning.  The  facts  of an 
individual case have  to be considered.
the suitability  of the Harlequin investment for Mrs H: 
The setting up of the SIPP and the transfer of the existing pension to it was specifically 
linked to the investment in Harlequin.   So 2 Plan should have  satisfied itself that it was 
suitable for Mrs H.  This broadly means that 2 Plan ought to have been  satisfied  that:
the investment  met Mrs Hs investment objectives and attitude to risk
the investment  fitted Mrs Hs financial position  and she could reasonably  afford to 
take the risks involved
Mrs H understood and was prepared to accept those risks.
In this case there is no evidence or fact finding  available for either the SIPP  advice or the 
Harlequin advice.   There is however some relevant information available  in this case.   I have 
also looked at Mrs Hs 1 Stop complaint.  From  all of this information I can build the following 
picture:
Mrs H was a relatively sophisticated investor  but only in so far as:
 
Ref: DRN748369917oshe was [a qualified  professional]
oshe worked in the financial  services  industry
oshe had  existing  conventional buy to let properties in this country  which 
have some similarities, though are not identical to, the Harlequin investment.
But it should not be forgotten that Mrs H did seek help from an adviser.  She was not so 
sophisticated or expert  that she did not want or need advice.  
Mrs H did have very little conventional  retail  investment experience. (Though she had an 
existing IFA, the other 2 Plan adviser [who referred her to Adviser  1].)  
  
The fact find completed  with 1Stop in December 2010
shows that Mrs H could  possibly  be categorised as high net worth and/ or a 
sophisticated investor.  She was probably a person to whom a UCIS could be promoted 
under the rules  and regulations in force at the time (subject to the required formalities).
In any event, an adviser could recommend a UCIS investment if he thought it was 
suitable for the client and so suitability is the main issue.   
Bearing in mind the investments made and Mrs Hs professional training and 
experience, I think the attitude to risk of high recorded in December 2010 is likely  to be 
a fair reflection  of her attitude to risk in Spring 2010 when  she was advised to set up the 
Rowanmoor SIPP. 
I am also satisfied that Mrs H did indeed want to invest in something more specialised,  
and higher risk than the managed fund her pension was in.
It should be remembered that a managed fund is far from risk free.  Stock  market  linked 
volatility would be normal and significant  loses could not be ruled out.
Mrs H was already investing  in two buy to let properties.  And  the properties were  
mortgaged meaning she was investing borrowed money.  Put  another way the 
investments were geared which  involves risk.
Mrs Hs retail investment experience may not be clear but from her [professional]  
trainingshe will have  understood  points  such as:
oFinancial projections and the point that they are made on assumptions that 
may or may not prove to coincide  with actual  experience as events unfold.
oThe returns on an investment involving rental  income are not guaranteed and 
depend on consistent levels of problem free letting.
oThe risks involved  are different  to, but not necessarily  any lower than, equity 
based investments.   
oGreater levels of concentration, rather than diversification, increases specific 
risk.  Investment  in one single property will normally be far more risky that 
investment in a diversified  fund.  
oAn additional investment in the property sector moving from an equity based 
managed fund increased her concentration in that sector.
oInvesting off-plan  in a property that has not yet been built involves risks not 
present in buying an existing property.
Ref: DRN748369918oBuying overseas will inevitably lead to some  foreign exchange  risk or the 
expense of hedging. 
The advice was to invest  around a third of the pension fund in Harlequin.   The  
remainder of the purchase price was supposed  be paid through  the income produced by 
the investment,  rather than through further  payment from the pension  fund.   There  was, 
at the time, no plan for how the rest of the fund was to be invested.  
Bearing all the above in mind, I think that it would not necessarily have been unsuitable, in 
principle, for Mrs H to invest approximately a third of her [approximately  £150,000] pension 
fund in an overseas  property if she wanted  to do so.   My view is therefore that the 
investment was not, in principle, unsuitable, for Mrs H.
The FSA Pension Alert in January 2013 says:
the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the 
customer is contemplating.
If the obligation was only to consider these  matters at a high or strategic level, the advice to 
set up a SIPP and to transfer the existing pension to it in order to invest in an overseas 
property investment was not unsuitable for Mrs H.
However the Alert did go on the say:
For example, where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds  to invest  in an overseas  
property investment under  a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property  investment 
must form part of the advice  about whether  the customer should  transfer into the SIPP.
This tends  to indicate that the FSAs  view was that compliance with its conduct of business 
rules in existence at the time of the advice requires consideration of the specific investment if 
it was known. In this case the identity of the specific investment was known at the time of the 
SIPP advice and so the specific investment should  have been considered.
some comments about  Harlequin:
Harlequin property  investments  have proved to be unsuccessful.  It is not completely clear  at 
this time why that is.  The chairman of the Harlequin  group  of companies has been charged 
with fraud  by the Serious Fraud Office.  The alleged activity occurred between  January 2010 
and June 2015.  That matter is not yet resolved.  There has been litigation between  
Harlequin companies and its former accountants  and developers in relation to another  
development.  Some matters have  become  clear  in relation to that development including  
the point that money raised from investors  was the main or only source  of finance for the 
project and that money raised  from investors  in one project was not guaranteed to be spent 
only in or on that project.
As I understand it Harlequin  did have completed resort projects in 2010.   Indeed  in this case  
Mrs H has said that as a perk of investing in the Marquis Estate she was able to holiday in 
the Harlequin Buccament Bay resort  shortly after the advice in this case. 
And it does  look like the projects  such as the Marquis Estate were intended to be bona fide 
projects and that as a result of problems with other Harlequin projects Harlequin and 
therefore Marquis failed  and is now in liquidation.  The liquidators do hold the land on which  
Ref: DRN748369919the project was to be built. The investment was seemingly a genuine off plan investment  
rather than a fictitious or scam investment.
It is important  not to use hindsight when judging  what a reasonable adviser acting 
reasonably at the time would have  thought  in the circumstances of this case.
What should 2 Plan  have advised  in relation to the Harlequin  investment?
At the time of the investment the property had not been build but Harlequin  had 
produced and was operating other holiday resorts.  As  I understand it the Marquis 
Estate project had only been  announced  in the autumn or late summer  of 2009 and the 
projected completion date was the end of December 2013.  I am not aware  of any 
known or unexplained delays in the Marquis Estate project at the time Mrs H was 
thinking of investing  in it (early  2010).
  
I am not aware of any publically available information about  overseas property  
investments through Harlequin or the parties  associated with the investment that, in 
early 2010, would have given serious cause for concern.  
 
Harlequin did have  problems with the Buccament Bay project in St Vincent and the 
Grenadines.  It had had problems with its contractor (Ridgeview)  on that project and it 
was replaced by ICE in 2008. By early 2010  that project was subject to delays and some  
investors had started to complain  about that project but it is not clear whether this was 
known about or sufficient to cause concerns to a prudent potential investor in the 
Marquis Estate project.  It should  be remembered that this was in the immediate  
aftermath of the global financial crisis when at least some  difficulties or delays may have 
seemed to be general rather  than specific problems with Harlequin.
  
It is not clear from the contract how the purchase monies were to be used - though  it is 
the case that additional payments after the first 30% payment were to be made as the 
building of the project progressed.  Clearly this did not in itself safeguard the funds that 
were invested but it did provide some degree  of comfort.
There is now some evidence  that investors and journalists were misled  by Harlequin in 
relation to the use of investors funds  at the time (see Harlequin  Property  (SVG) v 
Wilkins Kennedy [2016] EWHC  318 (TCC)).
The Buccament Bay project did have particular problems relating to land ownership for 
the entire site, and planning permission, which meant there  were  particular issues for 
that project.  I am not aware of similar  issues in relation to The Marquis Estate project.   
Nor so far as I am aware were those  issues known by investors or reasonably  
discoverable by investors in Marquis in early 2010.
My view is that investing in a unit on the Harlequin  Marquis Estate specifically is less clear  
cut than on the general issue of investing in overseas property as a general proposition.  
There was an issue about the financing of the project and a lack of any clear written term or 
contractual agreement  to control the use of investors money.  This might have been  enough  
to raise concerns  for some advisors and investors.
Would it have put Mr and Mrs H off had it been pointed out to them?  I think it is unclear.   
The lack of clarity on the issue  did not seem to cause them undue concern and they are 
[both qualified professionals] and they were investing pension  money  in the project.  
Ref: DRN748369920And if they had asked  it is likely  they would have been told what Harlequin seems  to have 
told others when asked (see paras 82 and 83 of the judgment mentioned above)  that the 
money would  only be spent on the Marquis project.
If 2 Plan had said it was not completely clear that Harlequin was completely reliable in terms 
of delivering its projects on time and that there  was no guarantee that the money  would only 
be spent on Marquis would Mrs H still have gone ahead?  I think it is not clear that the 
answer would  have been no.  I say this because:
The case, as it were, against Harlequin  was not clear and compelling at this stage.  
The best 2 Plan could  probably have done  at the time was to say things were not 
clear so Mrs H would be taking  a risk.
But Mrs H had a high appetite for risk.
And she was attracted  to an overseas property investment.
She would  seem  to have been  drawn to the idea of holidaying  in the Caribbean.
And she was later prepared to invest in another property on Adviser 1 advice when 
he was no longer regulated.
So on balance I do not consider it was unsuitable to recommend  the Harlequin investment to 
Mrs H in early  2010.  It did seem to be an investment involving a level of risk she was 
prepared to take and could understand and afford  to take, if she wanted  to do so.
Or put another way, I do not think that there was an obligation on 2 Plan, when giving the 
SIPP advice,  to advise  Mrs H not to invest in the Harlequin Marquis Estate investment it 
knew she was intending to make.
the advice from 1 Stop later in 2010:
I do however recognise that the above  point is not clear  cut and in my view there is another 
point to consider  that makes the conclusion that this complaint should not be upheld  more 
clear cut.
The next point  is that within a year of making the Harlequin Marquis  investment, Mrs H 
consulted another  unregulated adviser  in the Caribbean  and the regulated adviser  firm he 
worked with in the UK, 1 Stop.  It clearly reviewed the investment in the Marquis property.  It 
recommended the change  in ownership  of the Marquis property so that instead of being 
100% in the SIPP only 30% was held in the SIPP and 70% outsider  her SIPP.   
If the investment was unsuitable in early  2010 it would seem highly likely that it was still 
unsuitable in late 2010 when 1 Stop gave its advice.   If the investment was unsuitable 1 Stop 
should have advised Mrs H to sell the investment as soon as possible and invest  the 
proceeds in something  suitable.
Its not clear that the investment:
was worthless at the time of the 2 Plan advice (in late 2010), or 
could not have been disposed of if Mrs H had been advised  to do so  as I 
understand it Mrs H bought a second Harlequin investment at that time on a resale 
basis which tends  to show that there was some kind of secondary market for 
Harlequin investments  at the time.
Ref: DRN748369921This means  that the second adviser  could,  if the investment was unsuitable, have 
recommended action that would have ended Mrs Hs involvement with the investment at a 
time when  she would have suffered no loss.  The advice by the second adviser does 
therefore seem to be an intervening event that breaks the chain of causation if the Harlequin 
was unsuitable  when 2 Plan advised  in relation to the SIPP and pension  switch.
my provisional decision
It is my provisional decision that we can consider  Mrs Hs complaint  against 2 Plan but that it 
is not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold  the complaint.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7483699