K820x#14complaint
Ms F says Bradford & Bingley plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms F took out the PPI policy  in 1996  in a meeting at the same  time as she was 
re-mortgaging. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a 
monthly amount  for it, after the first six months  which were  free. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  to Ms F that the PPI was optional,  and she had to 
agree to take it out. 
Ms F says she had no knowledge  of being  sold PPI at any time. I cant know  what was said 
in the meeting but Ive thought carefully  about Ms Fs comments,  and Ive looked  at all the 
available paperwork.  
Ms Fs mortgage application  form shows she indicated that she wanted  PPI. And the option  
was given to decline it. She selected  the level and type of cover she wanted and answered a 
number of eligibility questions. Her mortgage offer confirmed she was taking out PPI and set 
out the cost (after the six months  free) separately. So overall, I think the balance of evidence 
shows Bradford & Bingley  made it clear PPI was optional and Ms F chose  to take it out. I can 
understand she might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the policy to Ms F so it didnt have to check  it was right 
for her. But it had to give her enough information  so she could make  an informed decision 
about whether  she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information the society gave  Ms F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think she wouldve been put off taking out the policy if shed received 
better information. I say this because:
Ms F was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances  at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Ms F wasnt affected by any of the things, such as a pre-existing medical condition or 
type of employment, which limited  the policys main  benefits. As she couldve benefitted 
from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely  she needed  better information about  
the policys exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN73047552Ms F was entitled to two weeks full pay and then the statutory allowance  if she was sick 
but the PPI would have  paid out in addition to this, and for up to 12 months. Shes told us 
she had savings worth around  three months salary but the PPI would have meant she 
could use them to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact 
for her future  needs.  Ms F was borrowing quite a large sum of money over a number of 
years secured against  her home. The impact of missing repayments  would  have been  
significant for her. So I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Ms F if she was sick, had 
an accident or lost her job.
-I dont know when  during the sale the society first made  clear  the cost of the policy   it 
was set out in her mortgage offer. But the PPI was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable. 
It follows I dont think Ms F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7304755