K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr F bought  the policy in 2004 at the same time as he took out a credit  card.  Our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint 
was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 28 February 2020, a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 28 March 2020. Both parties have contacted us to say they 
received my provisional  decision and that they had no further submissions to make in the 
case. So I am proceeding to my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Im minded not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Barclays told us that the PPI was sold over the internet. Barclays  have provided a copy  of Mr 
Fs application form from September 2004.  From  what  we know about how these policies 
were sold online at this time, Mr F had to select the cover online to get it and he would have 
been presented  with an option to decline it. Mr Fs online choice was reflected in the 
application form that was subsequently generated and sent to Mr F for him to sign. The form 
reflects that PPI was selected  for the card and Mr F signed the form, which  most  likely 
suggests he agreed to its contents. So, I think it most likely that Mr F agreed to taking the 
policy at the time of the sale, and did so knowing that he had a choice about doing so, even  
if he doesnt recall that now.
Barclays says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr F, so it didnt need to check that the PPI 
was right for him. But it did need  to provide  Mr F with information that was sufficient for him 
to work out if it was right for him. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I dont think that better information would have 
put Mr F off the PPI. I say that because based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that Mr F was most  likely eligible for the policy and wasnt  affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  I 
say this as he told us whilst his initial sick pay was good it dropped  significantly after six 
months and that he had no other  means  he could rely on if anything went  wrong.  This policy  
couldve covered  10% of Mr Fs monthly  balance for up to 12 months in the event he was too 
ill to work,  or if he lost his job. So, I think Mr F couldve found this cover useful.
Ref: DRN71246352In saying that Ive thought about the medical  condition that Mr F told us he had at the time of 
the sale. Mr F told us it had been  diagnosed  many  years  earlier  and he was on low level 
medication for it. And despite  having  the condition for over a decade Mr F told us that the 
condition hadnt  cost him any time off work at the time of the sale. Mr F told us that his 
medication was increased some  years but that was some years after the sale. So, I dont 
think that better information about  this potential  exclusion would have put him off the policy. 
So, having  thought about everything carefully,  I dont  think that better  information  would have  
put Mr F off the PPI.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Barclays Bank  UK Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  13 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7124635