K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage through  Lloyds in 2003  and at the same time PPI 
was added to their account.  This was done  at a meeting  with the bank. The policy  covered  
Mr H only for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our adjudicators 
view, so their complaint  was passed to me. They said,  in the main, they felt pressured into 
taking PPI and were forced into taking out a policy they didnt want. Mr H was also unhappy 
because when he tried to make a claim it wasnt paid.  This was because  he wasnt  
unemployed for over 60 days.  He thinks he was targeted, because he was the higher earner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when the insurance was added. But, looking at the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs H signed at the time, I can see they signed  the mortgage  application 
to say they wanted PPI. Mr H completed a separate  PPI application form to say he wanted 
PPI cover for him only. The paperwork made  it clear  that PPI was optional. So, I think  it likely 
that PPI was discussed and Mr and Mrs H opted to take the cover and thats why it was 
added. Im not persuaded that they were pressured into taking out PPI. This is a very 
subjective area, and I havent seen enough to be able to fairly reach the conclusion that that 
was more likely.
Lloyds recommended Mr and Mrs H take PPI, so it had to consider whether  it was suitable 
for them. In addition, it had to give them  information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so that they could make an informed choice about  whether PPI was right for them  and they 
wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need to consider whether I think 
Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of that. 
Only Mr H was covered under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage,  Ive taken into 
account Mrs Hs circumstances too, to decide if PPI was suitable for them. 
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mr H. Ill explain why.
Mr H appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances. It doesnt look 
inappropriate that the cover  was just in his name. 
Mr H said he wouldnt have got any sick pay through work. He said they had life 
cover and between  3 to 6 months  worth of pay in savings. If Mr H was too sick to 
work or made unemployed unexpectedly, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months per successful claim. If Mr H wasnt working it couldve been difficult  
Ref: DRN78317352financially and having the policy in place wouldve allowed them  to use their savings 
to meet  their other household expenses. So, I think this couldve provided them with 
a valuable benefit.
Mrs H was also working. She said she wouldve got redundancy pay only. Without  Mr 
Hs income, or Mrs Hs, if she was off work sick, it may have been difficult  for them to 
meet their mortgage repayments and usual  household expenditure. So, I think  PPI 
couldve been useful  in their circumstances.
I cant see that they had duplicate insurance protection.  Mr Hs other policy  was life 
cover, which wouldve  only have paid out on death, not for accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
I cant see that Mr H wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, so I dont  think  having  better information about  these things  wouldve  
made any difference to their decision to take out PPI. Mr H likely couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered.
The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially.  They  didnt have to pay interest on the premiums. I cant see 
that the policy was unaffordable. 
Its possible the bank  couldve  given Mr and Mrs H clearer information,  particularly  about  the 
costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still taken out 
the policy because  of the protection it afforded them and it appeared suitable for their needs 
and affordable.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs H have said,  including  that when Mr H 
made a claim he wasnt covered. But, from what Mr Hs said it seems  the policy didnt pay 
out because he wasnt out of work for more than 60 days. So, I cant see that Lloyds acted 
unfairly or unreasonably given the policy terms.
This means  Lloyds doesnt need  to pay back all of the premiums Mr and Mrs H paid.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs H about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds  Bank PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
Ref: DRN78317353ombudsman
Ref: DRN7831735