K821x#15complaint
Mrs V is complaining that she wasnt made  aware  that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with Specialist Lending Limited  (SLL) to fund an online  education  
course for her children with a supplier  that I will call E. Shes also unhappy she wasnt  
allowed to cancel it.
background
In June 2018 Mrs V says she saw an online advert  advertising Es services  and she clicked  
on the link. Following this, E called her and arranged for one of its representatives to visit her 
at her house. She subsequently entered her children onto a Maths  and English course, 
which cost £4,672. She entered  into a five-year finance agreement  with SLL to pay for it.
Mrs V says her children  didnt  want to continue with the course  after a few months  so she 
says she contacted E to look to cancel the course.  E said she would need  to discuss  this 
with SLL. In December 2018 Mrs V cancelled the direct debit repaying the finance. SLL then 
wrote to her a number  of times over the following months to say she was in arrears on her 
finance agreement, but Mrs V didnt reply.  So SLL referred the debt to a debt collector. 
Mrs V then contacted SLL to query why it had referred the debt to a debt collector. SLL 
explained she had entered  into a non-cancellable five-year  contract  and her children 
changing their minds about  not wanting  to use it isnt sufficient grounds to warrant a 
cancellation. Mrs V complained about  this because  she says she was told it was a monthly 
tutoring service which she could cancel  at any time.  She said the salesman told her she had 
a trial period.
SLL didnt  uphold Mrs Vs complaint. It was satisfied from the documentation she signed that 
E would have explained she was taking out a loan and couldnt  cancel it after the first 14 
days. Mrs V didnt think SLL were acting fairly so she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mrs V thought  shed entered  into a monthly 
tutoring service. She said shed considered the paperwork Mrs V signed when she entered 
into the course and the finance agreement. She acknowledged the paperwork set out Mrs V 
was entering into a finance agreement and what the terms of the contract were. But she said 
English wasnt Mrs Vs first language.  And the investigator didnt think Mrs V had sufficiently 
understood she was taking  out a long-term  financial commitment. 
The investigator was satisfied Mrs V had been misled into entering into the finance  
agreement. She was also persuaded the salesman had told her she could cancel the 
contract at any time. And she didnt think Mrs V would have entered into the contract  had 
she known it was to run for five years.
So the investigator thought SLL should waive the outstanding balance on the finance 
agreement and remove all record of the finance from her credit  file.
SLL didnt  accept the investigators opinion. It said Mrs V had signed a number of documents  
which it said made it clear she was taking out a loan. And it set out the process it says Mrs V 
would have gone through to complete the application. It also disputed Mrs V wouldnt have 
understood the documentation. It said it had had a number  of telephone calls with Mrs V and 
on only a small number  of the calls had she used a representative to help her with the call. 
Ref: DRN77067612SLL also referred the investigator to the Customer Agreement/Order Form Mrs V 
electronically signed. And it said the document said "I understand that I have 14 days to 
cancel this agreement  with [E] starting from the day after the date I enter into it (i.e. the date 
of sale) if paying by way of finance,  I will have 14 days in which to cancel, usually starting on 
the day after the day on which the finance (ie. loan) agreement is made and/or as confirmed  
to me/us  elsewhere  on behalf of the Finance company." So it said this clearly set out Mrs V 
had 14 days to cancel  the agreement, and also referred to the finance directly as a loan 
agreement. 
SLL also said the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction  Form Mrs V had signed also 
confirmed Mrs V had 14 days to cancel the course  and finance. So it maintained Mrs V was 
given sufficient information that she was entering into a finance agreement and what  her 
cancellation rights  were. But it also highlighted it emailed the documents to Mrs V after the 
agreement was activated. So it says she was given  plenty  of opportunities to read and 
understand what agreement she had entered  into.
As SLL didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mrs V paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain  circumstances, as the finance provider, SLL is jointly  
liable for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply  here.
Further to this, section  56 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 has the effect  of making  E the 
agent of SLL during the antecedent negotiations leading  up to Mrs V entering into the loan 
agreement, starting  from when she was first approached by E. But essentially, this means  
SLL is responsible  for the acts or omissions  of E in relation  to the sale of the loan to Mrs V. 
In other  words, SLL has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt  do during 
the sales process.
Mrs V is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when her children  didnt want to 
use it anymore. She says she thought she was paying for a monthly subscription and was 
just trialling it and she says she was told by the salesman  she could cancel at any time. So 
she says she was misled into entering into the course and the finance  agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Mrs V had the right to withdraw from it within  the first 14 
days, but after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mrs V maintains she was told she 
could cancel it at any time and thought  she was taking out a monthly subscription. She says 
she wouldnt  have entered into the course had she known shed have to continue  to pay for it 
for five years. She also says she didnt know she was entering  into a finance agreement. So 
I think the key issues  I have to think about is whether the course and finance agreement 
were misrepresented  to her.
SLL has placed significant focus  on the paperwork  Mrs V electronically signed as evidence  
she knew what she was signing up for. I agree that we must  take the paperwork into 
Ref: DRN77067613consideration  particularly  in assessing whether theres a breach of contract  or not. But I 
also need to take into account  the salesmans responsibilities to provide clear  information to 
enable Mrs V to make  an informed choice  before  she agreed to enter into the course. And I 
dont think the finance agreement is necessarily  always an accurate description of the 
conversations that were  had before the contract started. 
In arranging the loan between Mrs V and SLL, E was acting as a credit  broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont  apply to SLL directly. But I think E was acting  on SLLs behalf in arranging  
the finance agreement.  So its something  I need  to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires  brokers  to provide  what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations  of the following things:
a)   the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  under  the 
agreement unsuitable  for particular types  of use;
b)how much the customer  will have to pay periodically  and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
c)the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  would have a 
significant adverse effect  on the customer in a way which  the customer  is unlikely to 
foresee;
d)the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement  including, where applicable 
and depending upon  the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i)the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii)incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment  or under-payment;
(iii)impaired credit rating and its effect on future  access to or cost of credit;
(iv)legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders  (or, in Scotland,  inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v)repossession  of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi)where an article  is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed;  and
e)the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers  back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise  or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer  time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA  and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general  expectations  from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining  that a broker must:
2)  take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that a product it wishes  to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable  for the customer's needs  and circumstances;
Ref: DRN770676143)advise a customer  to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer  hire agreement  before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles  which it expects financial firms (including E 
and SLL) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications  with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mrs V purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced  Mrs Vs assumptions about how she was going  to be paying 
for it.
E marketed  the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There  are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further  research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis  ranging from one month up to a year.  E itself appeared, 
based on statements  on its website  and on other  documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription  or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime  Licence 
model that it sold to Mrs V. 
From what  Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model  appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large  upfront payment and this gives the child access  to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required,  the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed  up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed  to repaying the loan after 
14 days have passed. This seems  to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs  tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons.  So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility  when considering 
either face to face or online tuition.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme,  they would  assume that it was being offered on a subscription  basis.  I think 
its unlikely they would  think they were  going  to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front,  by a loan. Because E was offering  a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken  Mrs Vs testimony into account  and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded  by what  shes  told us given what  subsequently happened and what  
we know about  the product she ultimately bought.
Ref: DRN77067615I think Mrs V has been consistent  in saying that she thought  she thought she was signing  up 
for an educational tool that she would pay for monthly and could cancel at any time.  
I dont think Mrs V was looking for a long-term tutoring commitment and I think  its likely she 
would have wanted to have the option  to cancel the contract. So, on balance,  I dont think its 
likely she would have entered into a five-year contract, unless she was given an indication  
she could cancel it at any point.
Ive considered SLLs comments that Mrs V signed the agreement.  But from what I know of 
the sales process, the salesman would  have asked Mrs V to tick a box on a tablet to 
electronically sign the documents. I can see Mrs V electronically signed the following: 
the finance agreement
the enrolment application
the terms and conditions
declaration of affordability
customer clarification and satisfaction  form
But, with the exception of the customer clarification and satisfaction  form, these were all 
electronically signed. So I dont know for certain  what she would have read before agreeing 
to entering into the loan agreement. 
I note SLL has said Mrs V was given  an opportunity  to review the finance agreement  before 
she ticked the box to enter into the agreement and it has given us a description of some of 
the application process. I understand the finance application  including affordability 
assessment  was carried out through SLLs online  portal. But I think  its most likely the 
salesman would have completed the application  on Mrs Vs behalf  asking  Mrs V the 
relevant questions SLL asked to enable him to complete  the application. So, I dont  think  this 
is enough for me to say Mrs V should have known  she was entering into a long-term  
financial commitment. Im also conscious English  is not Mrs Vs first language and from our 
dealings with her, its highly  likely she may not have  understood the paperwork without some  
form of explanation. 
Ive particularly thought about the customer clarification and satisfaction form as Mrs V hand 
signed this document and initially against a number of statements  including acknowledging  
that she was taking out a finance agreement and only had 14 days  to cancel the agreement.  
So SLL has raised a fair point that Mrs V signed  to acknowledge this. But I think  this needs 
to be weighed up against what the salesmen was likely to have told her. 
Mrs V has said throughout she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription to a 
tutoring service. Given what I know about what Mrs V wanted  to use the training for, Im not 
persuaded she would have entered  into the course  and agreement if shed known it was a 
five-year commitment. I think Mrs V has been relatively consistent in what shes told us 
about what happened. And, Ive ultimately found  her testimony  that she was told she could 
cancel the course  at any time to be plausible  and persuasive. 
So while I do not dispute Mrs V hand-signed to acknowledge she only had 14 days  to 
cancel, this has to be weighed up against her being  told she could cancel at any time. And, 
as I said, I think  its likely she was led to believe she was entering into a monthly subscription 
service as opposed to a long-term loan.
Ref: DRN77067616I dont think a lay person  would automatically  understand that a finance  agreement would 
mean they are taking  out a long-term  loan that cant be cancelled.  As I said,  Im persuaded 
by what Mrs V has told us that she was led to believe  she could cancel the course  and 
agreement at any time. 
I dont disagree with SLL that it was Mrs Vs responsibility to understand what she was 
entering into. But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty 
to ensure she had enough  information about the credit agreement   as I set out above   and 
about the finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before she agreed  to 
enter into the course and finance agreement.
Its also worth noting that the FCA has written to credit brokers  outlining some key risks it 
believes they should consider and act upon.  The FCA said it had found firms  brokering  credit 
agreements with third-party finance providers  had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. In particular it referenced brokers which sell products in the home as 
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales  took place without 
appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis.
While no specific  firms  were mentioned  in the FCAs letter,  Im mindful of the fact that in 
Mrs Vs case  E was brokering a credit  agreement with a third-party  finance  provider in order  
to sell her a product,  in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm including mis-selling.
Ive also seen some of the training  material provided by E to its salespeople, which I 
understand was current at the point Mrs V entered into the finance  agreement.  When  
covering how to explain the financial aspects  of the sale,  E doesnt  refer to the word  loan  
anywhere in these training materials. Instead,  I think the focus  seems  to have been on 
setting an affordable monthly  payment  and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such 
a way as to avoid making the arrangement sound  like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mrs V as clearly as he should  have done. And I think Mrs V has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said,  Mrs V has had a benefit from the course  because her children did use it for a 
few months. So I think its fair she pays for some of the amount payable. I understand Mrs V 
stopped paying the finance in December  2018   around 5 months into the agreement.
Taking everything into account,  I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that SLL 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance  agreement. And it can retain the payments 
Mrs V made up to December 2018  reflect the usage her children have had from the course.   
SLL should also arrange to collect any equipment  E provided Mrs V and it should do so at no 
cost to Mrs V.
As I dont think Mrs V would  have  entered into this finance agreement had she been given 
sufficient information  at the outset, I dont think its fair that it continues  to appear on her 
credit file. So I think SLL should  remove any record  of the agreement  from Mrs Vs credit file.
Ref: DRN77067617my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Specialist Lending Limited  to do the following:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
2.Arrange to collect any equipment E provided  Mrs V and it should do so at no cost to 
Mrs V; and
3.Remove all records  of the finance agreement from Mrs Vs credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7706761