K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mrs W was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided 
Mrs W with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment. It cost just over £24 a month 
and is likely to have  paid enough to meet Mrs Ws mortgage commitment  for up to two years.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs W suggests she wasnt given a choice  about taking out the PPI as she was told she had 
to have it to get the mortgage.  I cant be sure what was discussed between her and the 
bank, but I do have to say that, from what this service knows  about how Santander sold PPI 
at this time,  it did make customers  aware the PPI was optional   even if it said it was a good  
thing to have.  We know  also that Mrs W would have signed a separate application for the 
PPI and made choices  about the level of cover she wanted. 
Overall, despite what Mrs W remembers, I think the bank made her aware that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mrs W to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs W was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs W says she would have received good  work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to a sickness  or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to these 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  the policy in place would mean Mrs W 
could use her work-related benefits and savings to pay for other  expenses. This would 
probably have  been  all the more  important when the policy was sold given  that Mrs W was 
Ref: DRN74432602solely responsible  for repaying the mortgage  and had children to care for. So I think  Mrs W 
would have had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements.
- Mrs W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys  main benefits,  
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mrs W needed 
better advice  or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
- I dont know  exactly when Mrs W was told the cost of the PPI  it may well have been 
in the meeting. But I think  as Mrs W would have signed a separate  direct debit mandate  for 
the PPI  shed  have  known it cost something. I accept Mrs W says she was separated from 
her husband  and not well off at the time, but Ive seen  nothing that confirms it was 
unaffordable or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet her monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mrs W wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mrs W would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would  still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7443260