K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (previously Abbey  National plc) mis-sold her 
mortgage. She said it was unsuitable  because it continued until she was 70 years of age. 
She said Santander didnt enquire how she would pay her mortgage off when  she switched 
to interest only.
background 
Mrs C took out a mortgage  in 2003  on a capital repayment basis over a term of 15 years. 
Due to a change  in circumstances, Mrs C asked Santander to change her mortgage  to 
interest only in 2006  which they did.
Mrs C said she was notified  by Santander  in 2017 that the outstanding balance on her 
mortgage was to be repaid by the following  year. She said she has looked at various 
possibilities for resolving the shortfall,  but hasnt  had any luck. Mrs C said she contacted  
Santander and was at first told they would consider extending the term by five years.  But 
Santander later said they didnt  agree to this as they were  not sure there  would be a solution 
in place in to pay the mortgage off after five years.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this so she brought the complaint to our service. It was looked at by 
one of our investigators  who didnt  think that the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt 
think that Santander acted unreasonably.
Mrs C was unhappy with this so she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman who tried to resolve  the case informally between  Santander  and Mrs C. He said 
that Santander could have dealt  with things better when Mrs Cs mortgage term ended. The 
ombudsman contacted Santander and explained  that it seemed the value of the property 
Mrs C had given them at the time was less than it actually was  and Santander should have 
known this. He thought  they didnt treat Mrs C as fairly as they couldve done. So he thought 
that Santander should pay Mrs C £750 compensation for the trouble and upset that she had 
been caused. 
Santander agreed to this as well as also agreeing  to extend the mortgage term by two years 
on a new interest rate  subject to affordability  checks.
Mrs C didnt agree with this outcome. She made  the following comments:
she believes that if Santander contacted her on a regular basis with regard to her 
term ending and the shortfall  in her mortgage,  she would have been forced to 
consider alternative  options sooner  before the term actually ended
she was led to believe that Santander  were  going to consider extending her interest 
only mortgage by five years, but they didnt. She said there  was no discussion 
around this and it was nearly  impossible to get through to them on the phone  to 
discuss it
she said there would be a significant change  in her circumstances in five years where 
she would not need to sell her home. She said the property could be re-mortgaged  
by a family member  which would  mean  she wouldnt have to sell it
the two year offer by Santander is subject to affordability which  she knows she cant  
meet due to the higher  interest  rate so shes  not in a position  to accept it
she said that Santander have attempted to frighten her by accepting the offer by 
sending frightening letters and debt collectors to her door
Ref: DRN78026022As Mrs C didnt  agree, it has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
sale of the mortgage
Mrs C said her mortgage was mis-sold  because  it continued to age 70 without an 
assessment of how it would be affordable to her. Ive reviewed the mortgage application 
from when Mrs C took her mortgage out in 2003. It shows that Mrs C wanted to borrow  
£48,000 over a term of 15 years. The income stated on the form for Mrs C was £27,700. 
Based on what we know about  the industry  lending at that time, lenders often considered an 
applicants income  in relation to the mortgage  and Mrs C wanted to borrow less than twice  
her annual income. So this amount seems sufficient  based on what  Mrs C wanted to borrow. 
Ive also seen a letter that was sent to Mrs C in 2003 which confirms that she wasnt  given 
advice when she took the mortgage out. She was given information on the different types of 
mortgages that Santander offered at the time. It was then up to Mrs C to make  a choice 
about what mortgage she wanted to apply for. Santander didnt have to check  which  
mortgage was most  suitable for Mrs C. Because she was given clear information  about the 
mortgage, including its length, and then decided to go ahead with this mortgage, I cant 
agree that the mortgage was mis-sold.
switch to interest only
Mrs C asked for the mortgage  to be switched from capital repayment  to an interest only 
basis in 2006.  Santander didnt assess how she would repay the mortgage at the end of the 
term. Its important  to remember that lending standards and the mortgage rules  were 
different then, and its the standards of the time that I must consider what  Santander did 
against.
Santander said that if a mortgage  was conducted satisfactorily and the total borrowing didnt 
exceed 75% of the current value of the property, they could have switched a mortgage  to 
interest only (in 2006)  which is what they did in Mrs Cs case. Santander were also entitled 
to allow  a switch  to interest  only to help a borrower  who was experiencing financial  difficulty 
at that time as well. And I can see from what Mrs C has said,  things were a little bit difficult 
for her at that time.
Santander says that Mrs C told them she would be paying into a savings plan alongside the 
interest only mortgage, in order  to pay off the outstanding  balance  at the end. But its not 
clear how Mrs C would have been  able to afford this given her circumstances at the time 
with her employment.
Ref: DRN78026023I accept that Santander hasnt  set out a strong  case as to why they agreed to switch  the 
mortgage to interest  only  although I should  point out they werent  required to do a detailed 
check of repayment  strategy at this time. But its not clear what  Mrs C would have done  
differently if they hadnt gone  ahead  with this switch. Mrs C would have remained on a 
capital repayment  mortgage and she told us that she needed to reduce her payments  
because she was going from full time employment  to part time, was going to carry out further 
education and later had to care for a family  member.  Mrs C also claimed support for 
mortgage interest payments, leading me to conclude she needed to keep payments down.
I can see that Mrs C asked  Santander for an illustration  in 2010 to amend her mortgage to 
capital repayment.  This shows me that she knew she was on interest only, and wanted  to 
consider changing back to make  sure her mortgage would be paid off by the end of the term. 
But she didnt accept  this illustration and her mortgage remained on interest only. Im 
therefore not persuaded that had she stayed on a capital repayment mortgage in 2006, she 
would have been able to maintain the higher monthly payments that would have been 
required. 
Mrs C said she would  have liked Santander to contact her sooner to let her know  about the 
shortfall in her mortgage and her term ending. Her annual statements would have shown 
that her mortgage was interest only and would  have needed to have been repaid. Ive seen a 
sample of the statements  that would have been  sent and this does show  that her mortgage 
would have been on interest  only. The statements also show the balance  and that it would 
still need to be paid at the end. I think Mrs C understood that in 2010 when she considered  
changing back  but never went through with it.
The Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance  which was aimed at lenders and what  they 
could do to help borrowers who were  on interest  only mortgages. The guidance says that 
lenders of interest only mortgages should engage with borrowers at the earliest opportunity,  
not waiting until the end of the term, to discuss  how a mortgage is to be repaid. I do think  
that Santander did enough to make Mrs C know what she had, but I dont think  they did 
enough to discuss  her options  with her soon enough. This could have potentially alerted her 
to the consequences which would have  helped her prepare better  than she did. 
end of mortgage term
Mrs C has said that Santander didnt treat her fairly when her term was due to end. 
Santander had an obligation to treat Mrs C fairly when  discussing options at the end of her 
mortgage term. They shouldve explored  all options available  to Mrs C and shouldve  given 
her time to explore options elsewhere  too  if she wanted to. It doesnt however mean that 
they are obliged to agree  to every  proposal that Mrs C may have put to them. And we would 
only usually expect Santander to agree to a term extension  where  there is a plausible  and 
realistic proposal to repay the outstanding balance at the end of the extended term.
I dont think that Santander treated Mrs C as fairly as they could have when she contacted 
them about  the term on her mortgage  ending. In order to see what options  could  be 
available, Santander  may have needed to know the value  of Mrs Cs property.  Mrs C said 
she thought her property  was valued around £100,000  which  is what she told Santander. 
Santander have  since said that their own valuation  of the property was quite different to what 
Mrs C had said  they had it valued  higher. This would mean that Mrs C had far more equity 
in her property than originally thought which could have meant more options  were available 
to her.
Ref: DRN78026024This was already  a very stressful time for Mrs C and it seems that Santander  made this 
process more difficult than it needed  to be. Mrs C tried to contact Santander  on a number of 
occasions to try and come  to an agreement about her term end. She says she spoke to nine 
different people and Santander said they would have put her through to the main helpline.  
The information Ive seen from Santander doesnt look detailed enough about Mrs Cs 
situation. So Im not satisfied they took reasonable steps to gather information from Mrs C 
and record her circumstances.  I think that Santander  couldve taken proper  steps to 
understand Mrs Cs circumstances at the time to see what  help she could  have been  given. 
Its possible they could  also have completed  an income and expenditure assessment at that 
time  which  I cant see that they did.
Mrs C has also commented on the letters that were sent out by Santander  which she said 
were frightening. Ive had a look at the letters which  were  sent and can see that they were 
sent to Mrs C because  her mortgage  term had ended and they were not able to speak to her 
to find out what  was going on. Santander  have  confirmed that one of the letters  was sent out 
by mistake due to a system error. They said they also refunded £10.50  for when they 
instructed a field agent to visit Mrs C at home  which was intended for them to discuss the 
balance outstanding.
I can appreciate that this may have been  upsetting for Mrs C, but I do understand why 
Santander had to send this type of letter out  which was for them to try and make contact 
with Mrs C to discuss  how the balance was to be re-paid. But as Ive already said, I think that 
overall, Santander couldve have dealt with things a bit better.
Santander have  acknowledged that things could have been  dealt with differently and have 
offered to pay Mrs C £750 for the trouble  and upset they have caused her. I think  that what  
they have offered is fair and reasonable,  in the individual  circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs C would like her term to be extended by five years.  But based on what  
Ive seen, I dont  think  itd be reasonable for me to say Santander  should  do this in this case. 
I understand that Mrs C has said her situation will be different in five years time and that a 
family member may be able to re-mortgage the property  because their circumstances will 
also change. But there is no guarantee that this will happen and I dont think its a realistic  
proposal. I say this because five years is a long time where undoubtedly, things can change, 
not necessarily in the way Mrs C is expecting them to. And, Mrs Cs relative is in no way 
bound to repay this mortgage or take actions in order to do so. Ultimately, Mrs C could still 
end up in the same positon that she is in now, but older and having paid more interest, which  
wouldnt be in her best interests   especially if house prices  were to fall in the meantime. 
Santander have  said that because Mrs C is in breach  of contract  (because  the mortgage  
terms ended  May 2018 and hasnt been repaid), a new product would need to be agreed 
under their current lending policy. Ive asked them if they would be able to extend the lifetime 
tracker that Mrs C was on, for two years  instead because Mrs C is concerned that she wont 
be able to afford the mortgage repayments  on a new product  which  would be higher.
Ref: DRN78026025Santander have  said that they can only offer Mrs C a new two year fixed product. And they 
also said that the lifetime  tracker is a variable rate which will increase in line with base rates  
so there  is a potential that the rate will increase over the next couple of years  which could 
put Mrs C in a worse financial position. They said they can offer a 2.99% fixed  rate which 
would also give Mrs C peace of mind that her payments will not increase over the next 
couple of years. 
They also pointed out that if Mrs C was still receiving support for mortgage interest (SMI) 
payments for her mortgage (which  she isnt anymore), the 2.99% fixed  rate should be 
affordable to her, based on the information  they have for her. While I appreciate  this, Mrs C 
decided to stop receiving these payments because  of the changes to SMI in 2018. SMI is 
now paid as a loan and this loan would need  to be repaid, with interest  when the property is 
sold or transferred  to another  party. Mrs C didnt  want to put herself in further debt which  I 
completely understand. So I dont think we can take these payments  into consideration.
I do think that Santander should extend the lifetime  tracker that Mrs C was on, when her 
term ended  rather than putting her on a product  like they have  suggested. This will give 
Mrs C more time to rethink  her plans and decide  what she wants to do to pay the 
outstanding balance back. I appreciate that Mrs C may be in the same position  in two years  
time, but I would expect  her to keep an open dialogue with Santander in order to be able to 
discuss her plans so that this hopefully doesnt happen.
Mrs C has since  asked me to consider asking Santander to increase the lifetime tracker  term 
by three  years instead of two. While she says she would prefer  the five year extension,  she 
believes that an additional year on the two year extension would be helpful for her. Ive 
thought carefully  about this and while I appreciate Mrs C would like an additional year, I dont 
think this would be helpful. As with the five year plan, three years is quite a long time and it 
could potentially put Mrs C in a worse position. I think two years is acceptable to give her 
time to rethink her plans and work with Santander  to pay the outstanding balance  back.
Santander have  said that the product at 2.99% doesnt have an early repayment charge  so if 
Mrs C did pay off her mortgage within that time, she wouldnt be charged this. While I 
appreciate this would be helpful  to Mrs C if she decided  to do that, I dont think  they need  to 
put her on a new product.
Her mortgage was on a lifetime tracker which ran to the end of the term. So if the term was 
extended formally,  the current tracker rate could  continue  too. Ive thought  carefully about 
what Santander have  said about this rate being variable and the fact that it can change, but 
at the moment,  we know that Mrs C can afford  these  payments. And she will need to 
continue making  her monthly payments, even if the rate does increase. It doesnt  however; 
appear that she can afford payments at 2.99%. So, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, I think continuing the existing  tracker rate is the fair thing to do.
Ref: DRN78026026my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Santander  UK Plc to:
provide Mrs C with a two year term extension on the lifetime tracker  that she was on 
when her mortgage term ended. This should  start from the date Mrs C accepts the 
final decision
pay the £750 offered to Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7802602