K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr H says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr H didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application  form Mr H completed  at the time. I 
can see that PPI featured in a section  called Optional features. And to get the PPI 
Mr H had to put a tick in the Yes box and I see there is a tick in the Yes  box. I also 
notice there was also a No box he could have ticked if he didnt want  the cover. So I 
think Mr H would have understood this was something he could say No to. And Mr H 
has signed the application form which suggests his agreement with the contents of 
the form.
Lloyds said it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr H and Mr H thinks  it did. Because  it 
makes no difference  to the outcome of this complaint whilst placing a higher test on 
the sale, I have  assessed  the complaint as if Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Mr H. 
So, Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr H  and based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example he was eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover.
And Mr H seems to have had a need  for the cover. I say this despite Mr H telling us 
he had very generous sick pay benefits. They were so generous we asked for some  
evidence to support  his testimony. Sadly, at the point  of writing we have received no 
such evidence. Consequently I am unable  to place the weight on what  Mr H told us 
that he may have otherwise wished me to. This policy couldve covered 5% of his 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months,  at which  point  it would have cleared any 
balance left on the card. So as these benefits  would have paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay Mr H may have  been entitled  to, I think Mr H couldve found  this cover 
useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Ref: DRN76158442Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest Mr H paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr H the difference between 
what Mr H owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest if Mr 
H paid off his credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7615844