K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint involves the transfer from defined benefit schemes  to Section 32 plans with
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G).
background
I issued a (further) provisional decision on 19 December 2018. In it I summarised the 
background which Ive repeated here.  
Mr T set up a Small  Self-Administered  Scheme (SSAS) with L&G in 1989. He had two
deferred company  pensions  which were  later transferred into the SSAS. The SSAS  was
unable to accept  the guaranteed  minimum pension (GMP) portion of the deferred pensions
and separate  Section 32 plans were  set up. At age 65 (in 2009) Mr T started  to receive
annuities from these  plans.
The scheme actuaries  had calculated the transfer values representing the values  of Mr Ts
deferred benefits (including the cost of providing  the GMP). But L&G requested a higher
proportion of the transfer value to be transferred to each Section 32 plan. Despite this
additional sum, Mr T has only received the revalued  GMP amount.
Mr T also says he wasnt provided with an illustration of benefits until 2013.  So he didnt
know the growth rate L&G was anticipating for each GMP  fund. Had he been aware of the
conservative rates used  that would have  been  a reality check  on the entire transfer  process.
He also said the figures  L&G provided  about the SSAS were  misleading and used
assumptions, such as future inflation  and annuity  rates.
Mr T originally complained to L&G and then to us in 2014. An adjudicator  wrote to Mr T
saying that we werent able to consider his complaint. She explained that were only able to
look at complaints about regulated activities and advice to transfer from one occupational
pension scheme  (OPS) to another (in this case a SSAS) wasnt  a regulated  activity  at the
time. And activities undertaken by L&G as trustee  of the SSAS werent something we could
consider for the same reason.
Mr T took his complaint  to the Pensions Ombudsman (PO). The PO didnt uphold the
complaint. As part of the complaint was about  financial advice (or lack thereof) Mr T was
referred back to this service so that aspect of his complaint could be reviewed.
A different adjudicator  reviewed the documentation sent by both parties.  She agreed that we
couldnt consider  all the elements of Mr Ts original complaint. But she said we could
consider the transfers to the Section 32 plans. After looking into that, her view was that the
complaint didnt succeed.
Mr T didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. So his complaint was referred to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on 19 March  2018. I didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T was very unhappy 
and made  very detailed  comments, all of which I considered very carefully  before  I issued  
my further provisional decision on 19 December 2018. Ive set out below my (further 
provisional) findings.
my further  provisional  findings
Advice
Ref: DRN72386272Ive looked again at the correspondence  between  Mr T and L&G. Ive considered everything
else as well but the contemporaneous documentation  does  carry weight. Mr T has pointed
in particular to L&Gs letter of 11 October  1990  which Mr T describes as indescribably bad
advice. Ive re-examined that letter,  including  what Mr T says about it containing a
prediction, as well as the rest of the correspondence. I hope  a more detailed  analysis will
assist in clarifying why Im still unable to say advice  was given. What Ive seen includes:
L&Gs letter of 1 December 1989: It refers to a meeting with Mr T following which the
representative had asked colleagues  to contact Mr T about the services L&G offered
in connection  with a SSAS.  The letter enclosed an illustration  for annual contributions
plus life assurance  premiums. It concluded by saying that if Mr T was happy with the
services offered by L&G the necessary documentation to establish the SSAS would
be provided.
So it looks  like a SSAS was discussed at the meeting. We cant  be certain now
exactly what was said. But I think it was open  to the representative to suggest a
SSAS might  be an arrangement that Mr T, as someone setting up his own company,
might want  to consider  and without that amounting to advice or a recommendation to
establish a SSAS.  But its also possible that the idea of a SSAS  came  from another
party. At the time Mr T was setting up his own company. I assume  hed have had an
accountant. A stockbroker has also been  mentioned. Its possible that the idea of a
SSAS as a pension vehicle originated in discussions with other professionals.
But even if it came from L&Gs representative that wouldnt, on its own, amount to
advice. The representative could also have indicated that it would be open to Mr T to
transfer his deferred OPS  benefits into a SSAS  without that being a recommendation
to do so. Even if the representative did go further thats not something which  we
could consider  advice  about setting up a SSAS or transferring OPS  benefits to a
SSAS falls outside our terms  of reference.  As Ive explained, its strictly  only the
Section 32 policies that we can consider.
L&Gs letter to Mr T dated 5 December 1989:  It sets out the services  that L&G
provided for a SSAS. Theres no advice about  the SSAS or contributions or transfers.
L&Gs letter dated 21 December  1989: It confirmed the SSAS  had been  established.
That followed a further meeting. It seems the transfer of Mr Ts deferred  benefits had
been mentioned   the letter confirms that transfer  value quotations had been
requested. But again that doesnt mean any advice about doing that was given.
 L&Gs letter of 6 February 1990: L&G had received a transfer  value quotation from
the larger of Mr Ts OPS. L&G asked Mr T to provide a letter to the OPS confirming
that he wanted to transfer his benefits in excess of the GMP to his new scheme (the
SSAS). L&G said it would then arrange  the transfer. And a copy of the letter  had
been sent to the representative who would contact  Mr T about the transfer  of the
GMP benefits.
Mr Ts letter dated 15 February 1990  to the OPS:  Mr T confirmed  he wanted to take
the transfer value hed been quoted, less the amount  he understood to be applicable
to the GMP. So it seems that, relatively  early  on in the process, and before
questions as to the higher amounts required to secure the GMPs arose, Mr T had
decided he wanted  to transfer.
Ref: DRN72386273Letter dated 12 April 1990 to Mr T from the (larger) OPS: L&G had said it needed a
higher amount to secure the GMP. The OPS asked  Mr T for his authority to transfer
the higher amount to the Section 32 policy.
Mr Ts letter of 12 April 1990:  He refers the transfer value offered by the smaller OPS
and says In the absence  of any advice or guidance  from [L&Gs  representative] on
the subject of the transfer value offered by [scheme]  I have prepared  my own crude
calculations which would  seem to indicate that I should accept their offer.  It would
have been helpful to have  had L&Gs advice on this.
So, from what Mr T himself said at the time, he hadnt had any advice on the merits
of that transfer  (including the GMP element).
The representatives reply of 24 April 1990: He notes Mr Ts comments  about the
lack of advice  or guidance about the transfer  value  offered by the (smaller) OPS  and
says the information provided  is insufficient  it doesnt  include  details  of the benefits
offered by the OPS, which information  should  have been given to Mr T. The
representative says without that I do not feel I am in a position  to advise you
regarding which course of action to take, but merely  to suggest  how the transfer,  if
elected, could  be treated.  Nevertheless, I would be delighted to explore  this subject
with you further  if required.
I read that as an offer to provide more  details about the process  rather than advice as
to what Mr T should do. The representative  had just said he wasnt  able to advise Mr
T so I dont see hed have  immediately contradicted  that by offering to provide
advice.
And, even  if it was an offer to provide advice about  whether Mr T should transfer, Id
still need to be satisfied that such advice  was given, as opposed to Mr T simply going
ahead with what hed by then already decided to do. As Ive noted, it seems, from
what Mr T had said in his letter of 12 April 1990, that hed by then already decided,
and without advice  from the representative, that he was going to take the transfer
value offered.
The letter (24 April 1990)  also says the representative had queried the difference in
the amounts required to secure the GMP from the (larger) OPS. An application form
for a Section  32 policy was enclosed. The representative hadnt completed any of it.
Id have expected, if Mr T was proceeding with the transfer on the representatives
advice, that the latter  would have  completed the application form for Mr T and just
asked him to add any outstanding details and sign the form.
Mr Ts letter of 1 May 1990: Mr T says hes having difficulty completing all parts  of the
section 32 policy application  form (which I assume was for the GMP from the smaller
OPS). He says hed have  expected L&G to have completed most  of it as part of its
trustee services. Again, if Mr T thought L&G was advising him about  the transfer,
hed presumably have  expected L&G to have dealt  with the paperwork for him,
including completing  the application form, as part of that advisory service. I note Mr
T says hed already given L&G details of his preserved  benefits  in the (smaller) OPS.
But, as Ive said, it seems hed already by then decided to take the transfer  value
offered. And in any event I havent seen  anything which indicates the representative
did give advice about what  Mr T should  do.
Ref: DRN72386274The representatives letter of 14 August 1990 to the actuaries of the smaller  OPS: It
says, about the transfer value from the (smaller)  OPS being applied  to the Section 32
policy, that it will not only secure the GMP benefits but has every  expectation  of
greatly exceeding this figure. It adds Mr T is aware  of the situation concerning the
size of the premiums  being applied to Section 32 Buy-Out Plans and the expectation
of greater than GMP  pensions attaching to them and confirms that he wishes to
proceed on this basis.
The letter wasnt  sent to Mr T (but it was copied  to him).  It was in response  to a
request from the OPS  for confirmation that Mr T understood and accepted  that the
amount required  to secure the GMP was higher (than the OPS actuaries had
calculated). I think it is likely to reflect  what had been discussed  with Mr T about the
premiums required to secure the GMP benefits.  But I still dont think that means
advice must  have been given to him. It was open  to the representative to express  an
opinion as to whether  the Section 32 policies might produce benefits in excess  of the
GMPs without saying  that definitely would  be the case  and/or  recommending to Mr T
that he proceed.
As Ive mentioned  it seems Mr T had by then and based on his own calculations
decided to proceed with the transfer from the smaller OPS. What the representative
said could simply be reflecting views Mr T (who was not financially inexperienced)
had reached himself about  the viability of the transfers.
Mr Ts letter of 18 September  1990:  Mr T raised  some queries before going ahead
with the larger transfer. But his questions  are about  the operation of the SSAS  and
what would  happen  if his circumstances (in particular  the arrangements with his
company) changed.
The representatives letter of 11 October  1990:  The representative dealt with the
possible situations Mr T had outlined. I think it was factual information as to what
would happen  to the SSAS/Mr Ts benefits in certain  circumstances. The
representative also dealt  with the transfer value from the (larger) OPS in some detail.
Mr T may now think the figure of £409,000 and the calculation  of the pension that it
might produce were deeply flawed. He may now think there  was no chance that hed
equal (much less exceed) the benefits hed have got if hed kept his deferred OPS
and that L&G should have  advised  him against transferring. But I dont think  it would
be fair to judge what was said with the benefit of hindsight. And if L&G didnt give any
advice then L&G wouldnt  have  advised  him about whether he should or shouldnt
transfer. I dont think what  the representative said was advice. And if it was I think  it
could only have been advice about  the transfer of the non GMP elements to the
SSAS, not advice  about the Section 32 policies  which is all Im considering  here.
Theres a PS and a (handwritten)  PPS to the letter. The PS is I think about  proposed
future contributions  to be invested in a with profits policy  and how that would
reduce L&Gs fees for administering the SSAS.  The PPS is also relevant to that
(new) policy  it sets out the reduction in yield due to charges and L&Gs current
bonus rates  for the proposed policy. I assume  Mr Ts point about those rates
indicating that the performance of L&Gs with profits fund was better than the
required compound  yield of 11.47% pa is on the basis that the transfer  value paid
into the SSAS was invested in a similar  with profits investment. But Im not sure what
Mr T would have taken from that for the two Section 32 policies. Or how that might be
Ref: DRN72386275information (much  less advice)  about those policies.
Ive also considered what Mr T says about that being a prediction.  But I dont think it
can fairly be described as such. I think its simply a mathematical calculation (on the
basis indicated and the assumptions made) as to the required growth rate to match
the benefits (excluding the GMPs) Mr T would be giving  up. I dont think  L&G was
suggesting that rate of growth would definitely  be achieved. I note what  Mr T says
about the likelihood of annuity rates continuing  to fall. But I dont think the
representative could  have known that definitely  would be the case.
Whats important is that the basis on which the calculation was made was clear and
that Mr T understood  that what  he might  get back would depend on investment
returns over the next thirteen or so years and prevailing annuity  rates  when he came
to take his benefits. I think Mr T did understand that.
I dont think the representative deliberately set out to deceive Mr T or was trying  to
persuade him to go ahead  with the transfer of his (non GMP) OPS  deferred benefits
to the SSAS. That isnt something I can consider anyway.
I understand Mr Ts unhappiness.  Investment  conditions have been disappointing
and the returns  that might  at one stage have  appeared reasonably achievable
havent always been met. That coupled  with falling annuity rates  has adversely
affected the level of retirement benefits that his pension fund provided.
But, in any event, my comments here are largely  in passing as the prediction was in
relation to the funds transferred to the SSAS which, as Ive stressed, isnt something
Im considering.
All in all I dont think the correspondence supports what Mr T says about advice having been
given.
Ive considered all the other factors too, including what the representative  recollects - that
Mr T didnt  take advice and was what wed term today a self advised execution  only
customer with no advice  or recommendations given. That seems to imply execution only
might be a new concept, which it isnt. Previous regulators including  LAUTRO  have referred
to it. And, as I mention further below, the Pension Review (which focused on sales  between
1988 and 1994) specifically refers to execution only business. Although, again as I mention
below, the Code (at least the version  Im considering) doesnt make  reference  to it.
As Ive said I recognise its unlikely  that Mr T decided to set up a SSAS and transfer his
deferred OPS benefits  to the SSAS  and the Section 32 policies without some discussion. But
I need to be sure that advice was given by L&G.  As Ive said,  there isnt the sort of
documentary evidence  Id expect to see if advice had been given  such  as a
recommendation letter. Sometimes a lack of documents may support a finding  as to what  did
or didnt  happen.  In other cases there wont be enough evidence to decide what happened
some time ago. Where  theres that sort of uncertainty it wont  be fair to uphold the complaint.
In saying that I bear in mind all Mr T has said about  L&Gs obligations (as set out by the then
regulator in 1994 in connection with the Pension  Review) to retain documents  indefinitely
and to report any already  disposed  of records to the regulator (which L&G didnt do). But
any record keeping failings dont  mean  that I must  reach a finding that advice was given and
when I dont consider  such  evidence as there  is supports that finding.
Ref: DRN72386276Ive also born in mind  Mr Ts occupation  and experience. I think  hed have had a reasonable
understanding of finance  and investments and hed have been confident in making his own
financial decisions even if he had some  queries  along the way.
I note what he says about L&G not asserting that the transfers were execution  only. But if
they werent done on an advisory basis then, in practical terms, they must have been carried
out on an execution  only basis. I dont think the fact that the transfers may not have been
labelled as such at the time must  mean that I should  find advice was given.
Whether or not advice was given is a finding  (of fact) for me to make. Mr T may not agree
with a finding that L&Gs involvement didnt include giving advice. But that doesnt mean Ive
exceeded my powers and authority.  Its simply that, taking into account  all the available
evidence, I dont agree with Mr Ts position  on what L&G did.
The other problem  is that just looking  at the Section 32 policies in isolation doesnt  really
reflect the situation at the time. Mr Ts more  significant decision was to set up the SSAS and
transfer his (non GMP) deferred OPS  benefits.  Because it wasnt then possible for the SSAS
to take the GMPs  the Section 32 policies were required   I dont see that the OPS would
have agreed to retain just the GMPs.
Sometimes, even where we think a business hasnt  acted  as it should but the outcome
would still have been the same, we wont  uphold the complaint. If the complainant wouldnt
have acted differently  then it wont usually be fair to say that the business should
compensate the consumer.
Here the two Section 32 policies only came about because the GMPs couldnt be transferred
into the SSAS. If we assume Mr T would have  gone  ahead with the SSAS and the transfers
into it anyway (and thats not something I can look into) then it might not be fair to uphold  the
complaint about  the Section 32 policies even if there were shortcomings  in what  L&G did (or
didnt do).
I know Mr Ts argument is also that L&G should  have advised him  as part of its obligations
under the Code and/or the trustee services agreement. Ive considered  that below.
The Code
Im required  to determine a complaint by reference  to what  is, in my opinion, fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In considering that in a particular case, I
have to take into account relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and
standards; codes  of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been  good
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr T says L&G didnt  act in accordance with its statutory and regulatory obligations (under
the Financial Services  Act 1986,  the LAUTRO  rules and in particular the Code). Im looking
at the version  of the Code  dated February 1988 which is based on the LAUTRO Rules 1988
which were in force at the relevant time. The 1988 version of the Code doesnt specifically
mention execution only business.  Later versions  of the Code do, albeit not in any detail.
I dont disagree that L&G was bound  by the LAUTRO rules and the Code.  But that doesnt
mean I share Mr Ts interpretation of what that meant for L&G in dealing with him and in
particular taking into account my finding  that L&G didnt give Mr T advice.
Ref: DRN72386277Section 1 (1) of the Code says:
This Code  of Conduct is made for the purpose  of ensuring that members and their company
representatives , in the course  of carrying on any relevant investment business 
(a) maintain high standards of integrity  and fair dealing, in particular in relation to
investors;
(b) exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services  in the course of that
business; and
(c) generally take proper account of the interests  of investors;
And section  2 sets out a general  principle of fair dealing:
A company representative shall exercise  due skill, care and diligence in his business
dealings and shall deal fairly with investors.
Other sections of the Code deal with specific aspects of the company representatives
conduct  for example section 3 deals with meetings with investors and section 4 with
business stationery.
Mr Ts main focus is on clause 6  that section is headed Best advice to be given. So its
predominately about advice  and here my view is that L&G didnt give Mr T advice. But it
isnt all about advice.  It refers to a company  representatives dealings with an investor in the
course of any relevant  investment  business. Thats defined in part I of the LAUTRO rules
(1988) and in so far as is relevant here as meaning:
in relation to any person, means any business carried  on by that person relating to the
marketing of Type A personal equity plans or of units in a collective investment scheme
which is an authorised  unit trust scheme or is a recognised scheme by virtue  of section 86,
87 or 88 of the 1986 Act or of investments falling within paragraph 10 of Part I of Schedule 1
to that Act  
Paragraph 10 is about  long term insurance  contracts which would include Section 32
policies. So I agree that the Code applies here. But I dont think  that means that all sections
of the Code apply regardless of exactly what investment  business  L&G was carrying  on. In
particular I cant see that what the Code says about  best advice applies if L&G didnt give
any advice.
As Mr T has identified, the primary  legislation at the time was the Financial Services  Act
1986. Section  1(2) says:
In this Act, investment business means  the business of engaging in one or more of the
activities which fall within the paragraphs  in Part II of that Schedule  
The activities in Part II include dealing in investments; arranging deals in investments;
managing investments; and investment advice. On the basis that the representative
arranged the Section  32 policies he was carrying on the regulated activity of arranging deals
in deals in investments. But investment advice  is a separate activity. Its described  as:
Giving, or offering  or agreeing to give, to persons in their capacity  as investors or potential
investor advice on the merits of their purchasing, selling, subscribing for or underwriting an
investment, or exercising any right conferred by an investment to acquire, dispose of,
Ref: DRN72386278underwrite or convert an investment.
Mr T suggests that advice  means recommend or inform about a fact or a situation. I agree
the former  would be advice as defined. But I dont  think it extends to the latter.  Simply giving
information isnt advice about whether the investor  should purchase the particular  investment
 here the Section 32 policies. I dont  agree  with what Mr T says about L&G being obliged
under the Code to provide  best advice. That obligation only arose  if L&G gave advice. And
for the reasons Ive explained Ive found that advice wasnt given.
So, looking  at clause  6 of the Code,  I dont think subsection (e) applies  it specifically refers
to advice to the investor and I dont think the representative did give advice. Nor was he
required to. So there was no obligation  to make a comprehensive study of Mr Ts need to
make the investment and his financial resources. So it wasnt  necessary to ask Mr T to
complete a fact find. Nor was the representative  required to disclose to Mr T all relevant
consequences and disadvantages likely to follow from the action advised and when no
advice had been given. By the same  token clauses 7 and 8 arent  relevant.
The representative had a general duty to exercise  due skill, care and diligence  and to deal
fairly with investors.  But those duties have to be viewed in context.  I cant say that the
representative failed  to exercise due skill and care in recommending the transfers  to the
Section 32 policies when I dont think any recommendation  (that is advice) was (or had to
be) given.
Subsections (a) to (d) of clause 6 are more general  and dont relate specifically to advice. I
dont think theres any suggestion  that clause (d) was breached. Nor was clause  (b)  it
seems clear  from Mr Ts letter of 1 May 1990 that the representative didnt complete the
application form(s) and that Mr T did that himself (which as Ive said is consistent with advice
not having been given).
Mr T may say that (c) was breached   he might point to the representatives letter dated 14
August 1990.  But I dont  think  that amounts to an inaccurate or unfair criticism of the OPS. It
wasnt a statement made direct to Mr T. It may support, to some  extent, what he says about
having been told the Section 32 policies would  definitely produce  pensions well in excess  of
the GMPs. I say to some extent because its an expression of opinion  that the Section 32
policy would do better.  Mr T may think that opinion was misplaced. Economic  conditions
havent been favourable  and so the hoped for returns werent achieved which, coupled with
falling annuity  rates, has meant the Section 32 policies didnt produce benefits  in excess  of
the GMPs. But I dont  think  that necessarily  means any opinion  expressed in 1990  when
investment conditions were very different was unreasonable. Or such  as could properly  (and
without the benefit of hindsight) be termed inaccurate and unfair  criticism of the ceding OPS.
I bear in mind what Mr Ts said about L&G having industry experience  and knowledge. But,
as he accepts, whats going to happen  in the future cant be predicted. I dont think the
representatives expectations of likely future  performance were unreasonably held at the
time.
It may be that L&Gs actuaries used more conservative assumptions than the OPS  actuaries
in looking at the cost of meeting the GMPs but that doesnt mean  L&G knew  that recent
investment returns wouldnt (or were at least very unlikely to) continue  at the same or a
higher level.
As Ive said before its possible that the representative said something which went further.
Ref: DRN72386279But I dont think it would  be right, so many  years after the event, to rely on what might have
been said when  thats not agreed and wasnt put in writing. If Mr T thought  he was getting a
guarantee (over  and above the requirement  to pay the GMP) then Id have thought hed
have wanted that in writing.
Mr T may say that subsection (a)  the requirement  to give the investor all information 
wasnt met. But again thats got to be considered in context. Here it would be information
relevant to the representatives dealing with an investor. So, again, my view is that there
wont be a breach if the information that Mr T considers was lacking is the sort of information
that should have been provided if advice was given. For example Mr Ts said, and L&G
admits, no fact find was completed. But if L&G wasnt  giving advice then it didnt have to
undertake a fact finding exercise.
Id also point out that the requirement to supply a key features document  didnt come into
effect until the 1994 amendments to the LAUTRO rules. The requirement to disclose
commission was also then introduced (although it seems that L&G did disclose its
commission and agreed that it would be rebated  back  into the Section 32 policies).
From what  Ive seen Mr T was given the information  about the Section 32 policies that Id
expect to see, on the basis that L&G was just arranging the policies and not advising  on
them. For example, L&G sent him a plan statement and policy documents  for the smaller
GMP in October 1990 and similar information  for the larger GMP in December 1990. That
was after the policies had been  set up. But if the information wasnt consistent with what hed
been told or understood then he could  have queried  it. As he didnt then Id assume the
policy documents were  what hed expected.
Ive also seen (undated)  L&G buy out plan product particulars. It sets out, amongst other
things, the benefits,  amount invested; bonuses;  charges; effect of charges or expenses; and
transfer values.  I note theres also a reference  to illustrations  of future returns.  It invites Mr
T, if hes been provided with a projection or similar which  wasnt confirmed in writing and
stated to be in accordance with the rules  prescribed by the regulator  to contact L&G.  So if Mr
T thought  at the time he hadnt had a proper illustration   hes said illustrations werent
provided or at least not in the correct format - he could have asked L&G to supply one.
Ive seen various illustrations, including for the Section  32 policies. But, given the time thats
elapsed, its difficult to say what illustrations were given to Mr T and when. L&Gs  letter of 11
October 1990 refers  to an illustration being  enclosed. Id presume that it was  Id have
expected Mr T to have  queried any omission. But it seems that would have been in relation
to the funds transferred to the SSAS, not for the Section 32 policies.
Any illustrations for the Section 32 policies would  have  been just that  an indication as to
how the funds  might perform and the benefits  that might ultimately  be payable. Investment
conditions at the time were very different.  What  might now appear  to be a very optimistic
view as to future investment performance might  not have been an unreasonable  expectation
at the time. But in any event Mr T knew that the Section 32 policies  guaranteed  to meet the
GMPs. And that any benefits over and above  that were dependent  on investment
performance. I dont  think he was misled about  the Section 32 policies.
Mr Ts specifically referred to not being  provided  with a with profits  brochure.  I think  he
should have been given  a with profits guide  I think  that was a regulatory  requirement  from
1990. Given the time thats passed,  its possible he may have been  given  a brochure or
other information which he doesnt  now recall.  Its sometimes  easier,  where advice is given,
Ref: DRN723862710to see exactly what information was given and when. For example the recommendation
letter may attach the relevant documents.
Where advice isnt given (and I think that was the situation here)  then information may be
provided on a more piecemeal  and less formal basis. Nowadays Id probably  expect  to see a
record of all information thats been  handed over. But I dont think  that would necessarily
have been the case some thirty  years  ago. As Ive said I dont think L&G should be judged
on the basis of todays administrative standards.
But, even  if he should have got a with profits guide  but didnt, I dont think  thats crucial or
would have meant Mr T decided against  investing his Section 32 policies in L&Gs with
profits fund. I think Mr T understood  how with that type of fund operated. At the time with
profits funds  were popular  returns and bonuses  had been good.  Mr Ts investment options
for the Section 32 policies were limited  some providers only offered with profits  or cash
funds. With profits funds  may be viewed somewhat differently now. And theyve attracted
criticism for their lack of transparency.  That, and other concerns, has led to increased
oversight by the regulator. But, as Ive said, Im not looking at things with the benefit of
hindsight.
I think Mr T may also be suggesting that, if L&G wasnt  required to give him advice, it should
have facilitated  the provision of advice by a third party independent  representative. Mr T is
referring here to the services agreement hed entered  into with L&G and to the section which
says L&G would, where applicable,  refer questions concerning the selection  of specific
investments or insurance  contracts [Mr Ts emphasis]  to the General  Trustees appointed
representatives.
As I understand what Mr T is saying, the Section  32 policies were  insurance contracts  and
L&G failed to refer questions about them (specifically the amount of the transfer values
required for investment) to an independent  representative  who would have pointed  out the
risks and disadvantages of the transfers.
But Mr T is referring here to L&Gs  role as a trustee of his SSAS. I think thats a separate
and discrete role. Any obligations  which L&G might  have  in that capacity wont extend more
generally. I dont agree  with Mr T that L&G was required  to do what  hes suggested.  The
agreement is in relation to the SSAS.  The Section  32 policies were outside and unrelated to
the SSAS  as Ive said the GMP element of Mr Ts deferred benefits couldnt be transferred
into the SSAS. The services agreement doesnt  extent to the Section  32 policies which
werent linked  to the SSAS.
I think Mr T had enough information to enable him to make  a properly informed choice about
what he was doing. Even  if he should have been  given more  information (as opposed to
advice that he shouldnt transfer) I think hed have still gone  ahead with the Section 32
policies.
Pension Review
Mr T is concerned that he didnt get an invitation  to have the SSAS  and the two Section 32
policies reviewed as part of the Pension Review. Ive thought about that again.
I bear in mind Mr Ts general comments about the mis-selling of personal  pensions and
Section 32 contracts  during the period 1988  to 1994 and the setting up of the Pension
Review to identify situations where poor advice may have been  given and to redress any
Ref: DRN723862711consequential financial losses.
Mr Ts situation  is more complicated  than some cases which obviously fell under the Pension
Review. A more typical scenario would be where theres no dispute that advice was given
 evidenced by a letter to the consumer containing a clear recommendation (in the case of a
transfer rather than not joining or opting  out of an OPS) that he give up deferred  benefits in
an OPS by transferring  to a personal  pension  or Section 32 policy. And that will be the only
transaction complained of  there wont be an accompanying transfer of the bulk of the
benefits accrued  in the OPS to a SSAS.
I said, in my provisional decision, that Mr Ts Section 32 policies should have been included
in the review population. But that some  cases, including  those where no advice had been
given, were then excluded from the review.
The Pension Review guidance required firms  to identify, from its records, any Section 32
contracts that were  arranged on an execution only basis between 29 April 1988 and 30 June
1994. Execution only means situations where investors were not given investment advice. I
note what Mr Ts said about L&G not referring  to his policies as execution only. But I think
the central point  is that L&G was only required to review policies sold where  advice had
been given.
So, having  identified Mr Ts Section 32 plans fell within the review population, L&G should
then have reviewed  Mr Ts case and established  whether  he was given investment advice or
if anything was said or sent to him which could  have given him a misleading impression
about the contract, particularly the risks involved.  The guidance refers to a file note recording
the basis of any decision to confirm a case as execution  only.
L&G hasnt been  able to produce any such record. So its not entirely clear if Mr Ts Section
32 policies were reviewed  and to what extent. I can understand  why Mr T finds that
unsatisfactory. But I dont  think  that, of itself, means  that I should require L&G to review  the
Section 32 policies now.
If the policies  had been reviewed, I dont  think  there  was anything  to suggest that investment
advice had been given. Or that Mr T may have misled about  the contract or the risks
involved. So I think L&G could  properly  have recorded the sales  as execution  only.
As Ive said before, the main aim of the Pension  Review was to identify and review cases
where the consumer  may have been  given poor advice. If advice wasnt given  and the sales
were non advised or execution only (even  if they may not have been properly recorded as
such) I dont  think it would  be fair to require L&G to review the transfers  now. Its also the
case that the transfers to the Section 32 policies were driven  by the transfer to the SSAS
which would have fallen  outside the Pension  Review. As Ive said, considering the Section
32 policies in isolation may not be a fair or properly representative approach  in the
circumstances.
Its unclear exactly what L&G did as part of its Pension Review  exercise in relation to Mr Ts
Section 32 policies. And as Mr Ts pointed out, L&Gs records  are lacking.  Essentially  L&G
should be able to show that it identified  Mr Ts Section 32 policies as part of the Pension
Review and that it then went to review  them  and having established that no advice was
given kept a clear  record of that as the reason why Mr T wasnt  sent an invitation to have his
policies reviewed.
Ref: DRN723862712I can understand Mr Ts dissatisfaction with the position. But Ive found that, if L&G had done
what it should, Mr Ts policies would have been excluded  from the Pension  Review.  In the
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  be fair to require L&G to review them now.
comments following my further provisional decision  
L&G didnt make any further comments. Mr T did. Ive summarised his main points:
Pension Review. 
It wasnt fair for him to pay for L&Gs failures  in respect of the Pension Review   
which provided a specific legal  remedy. It was unsafe to rely on L&Gs  comment that 
it couldnt and didnt provide advice as it was non regulated business.  The Section 32 
policies werent  OPSs and were  unrelated  to the SSAS.  
Id said L&G should have reviewed his case.  That wasnt  done at the time, when the 
relevant records would still have been  available. Those records  should  have  been  
kept. Some of the letters mentioned other conversations or exchanges, records of 
which should have  been kept.   
L&G had said that there were  a number of reasons  why this business may have been 
excluded from the Pension Review. We should establish why a review  wasnt 
undertaken. We should ask L&G what its policy was in circumstances such as his 
and how that met L&Gs obligations  under  the Pension Review. 
L&G hadnt addressed his claim that the policies had been mis sold and I hadnt  
asked it to. L&Gs full response might  have revealed more information. L&G didnt 
have authorisation  from the regulator to exclude  from the Pension Review  policies 
which were accompanied by a parallel transfer into a SSAS. L&G had suppressed 
discovery of information pertaining  to the Review which  could have significant 
financial consequences for L&G.  
best advice under the Code
L&G was required to provide best advice under clauses 6, 7 and 8(b) of the Code. 
The Code was a process to protect investors  when  the LAUTRO  member is 
undertaking regulated investment business. What  Id said about L&G not having 
given advice  a recommendation  was only partly relevant. The issue was whether 
L&G provided the advice defined under section 1(1) of the Code  which  refers to 
ANY (Mr Ts emphasis) relevant investment business. Arranging deals in investments  
in with profits funds   units in an authorised collective investment  scheme   was 
relevant investments business. 
Mr T set out what he considered L&G was required to do to comply  with clauses 6(a) 
and (e) of the Code. The latter says that the member shall not ADVISE (Mr Ts 
emphasis) unless  a comprehensive study  of the investors need to make any 
investment and his financial  resources has been undertaken. And the likely  
consequences and disadvantages must be disclosed. Mr T had considerable 
experience of drafting and negotiating contracts. The Code  could have said 
something different   such as shall not provide advice (Mr Ts emphasis) or shall 
not give a recommendation (Mr Ts emphasis again). But that wouldnt have 
captured the regulated activity  of arranging whereas advise allowed for both. 
Clause 7 applied  too. L&Gs representative conceded that he wasnt  competent  to 
advice on the reason  for the higher policy  premium by referring the matter to L&Gs  
actuary. Mr T wasnt  told what the actuary had said. Whether  or not L&Gs 
Ref: DRN723862713representative was competent  to advise depends  on if he did what the actuary said.  I 
should require  L&G to obtain  what was said.  
Clause 8(1)(a) only applies where  a recommendation is provided. Mr T cant produce 
a written recommendation.  But clause 8(1)(b)  does apply.
My conclusions  L&G wasnt  required to provide  best advice  under  clauses  6(e), 7 
and 8(b) of the Code  were unsafe and didnt reflect the full requirements  of the Code 
and the Act. 
the cause of Mr Ts losses and his calculation of his losses
Id inferred, in saying that investment returns between 1990  and Mr Ts normal 
retirement date had been disappointing  that Mr Ts profession meant hed have 
been aware of the risks to potential investment returns. That suggestion is unsafe.
His calculations showed  that the losses for his SSAS (as compared with what hed 
have got at his normal  retirement  dates from his OPSs) werent attributable  to the 
returns achieved by the investments in his SSAS. Inflation  fell between  1990 and 
2004, reducing the rate at which the deferred  pension from the larger  OPS  escalated.  
Instead of getting £31,000  at age 60 Mr T would  only have got £23,613. The return 
the SSAS had to achieve fell too (so long as expenses and annuity rates remained 
the same  as in 1990).   The SSAS achieved a return of 9% pa before expenses and 
5% after.  If duplicated expenses and investment transaction  fees are added in the 
SSAS achieved  a 7% return.
But annuity rates fell during the period. L&G hadnt given Mr T relevant information 
about annuity rates, such as causes of changes to annuity rates, tables of historic 
rates etc. There was nothing in the paperwork about  the risks relating to annuity rates  
and how rate changes impacted  on the pension actually payable. 
He hadnt  received  any payments  from the Section 32 policy  in respect  of his 
protected rights in the larger OPS until age 65. Hed have received the GMP element 
from that OPS at age 60 with generous  annual  escalation  (compared to virtually no 
escalation under the Section 32 policy).   
L&G would have  known that giving him paperwork saying the Section 32 policy was 
expected to provide higher benefits  than the GMP element of his OPS was just a 
con. When hed asked for a pension quotation  at age 60 from the Section 32 policy  
hed been told that he wouldnt get any payments for five years as the fund wasnt 
sufficient to provide  the GMP which L&G had to pay at age 65. L&G should  have 
known in 1990 that was likely  which is sort of confirmed by the handwritten notes 
on the illustration (which Mr T didnt receive). 
The Section  32 policies provided  a pension at the normal retirement  date under the 
transferring OPS (60 for the larger OPS and 65 for the smaller OPS. But small print 
in the policy  which  Mr T wasnt told about meant that L&G only had to honour the 
guarantee to pay at least the GMP at state  pension age  that is at age 65. 
L&Gs representative had to refer the high premium required to L&Gs actuary. What 
the actuary said wasnt shared with Mr T even  though it would have been relevant 
information under  the Code.  We should find out what the actuary  said. 
Mr T set out how hed calculated his losses   caused by excess  costs (magnified by 
low inflation), lower returns and the collapse  of annuity rates. 
did Mr T deal with L&G in 1989/1990  on an execution only basis?
L&Gs representatives  recollection  (without  any files or papers and over twenty  
years later)  that Mr T engaged with L&G in 1989/1990 on an execution only basis is 
unsafe. 
Ref: DRN723862714Mr T approached L&G in 1989  about investing  £5,000 pa in a pension.  At the 
meeting on 1 December 1989 L&Gs representative  suggested a SSAS.  Mr T didnt 
suggest it. L&G hasnt  said he did. Nor do the minutes of the meeting  record that. Mr 
T was then introduced  to L&Gs trustee  services  representative who,  at a meeting on 
21 December 1989, explained how a SSAS worked. 
At the heart of his decision  to set up a SSAS  was L&Gs fiduciary  duties under trust 
law (including acting  in the best interests of the beneficiaries) and his understanding 
that he was entering into an advisory  and administration contract with L&G by way of 
the services agreement.  
In 1989/1990 Mr T dealt with only one representative of L&G in relation to the sale of 
the SSAS and the Section 32 policies. That representative arranged the transfers. He 
referred to himself as a life account executive (mainly when communicating on SSAS 
matters) and broker consultant (mainly  when writing  on policy sales  matters). Both 
roles would be expected to include  advising unless stated  otherwise. He didnt once 
communicate orally or in writing to Mr T that he was working on an execution only 
basis. And L&G hadnt produced evidence of execution only status as required by the 
regulator and something which the representative  would have made sure he placed 
on record.  
The representatives letter dated 14 February  2013 setting out his recollections refers 
to a telephone conversation the previous  day. The record of that conversation should 
be obtained. 
would Mr T have gone ahead with the transfers  anyway? 
Any suggestion hed have gone  ahead with the pension transfers to the SSAS and 
the section 32 policies if L&G had fully and properly  complied  with clauses 6, 7 and 8 
of the Code isnt supported by evidence,  isnt credible, is inconsistent  with his 
professional record  and is unsafe  and untrue. 
It was difficult  to see why someone  who intended to take a pension  transfer  and 
invest regardless of risk would  set up a SSAS.  It was quite costly and trustee 
regulation could have been  seen as an inconvenient interference.  Mr T didnt want to 
take advantage of the wider investment powers, nor did he need  to transfer out of his 
OPSs. His attitude  to risk was no higher  than medium and the SSAS investments 
reflected that. 
What Id said about his professional experience wasnt  fair. Hed been  made  
redundant at age 45 with significant  financial and family commitments. His 
professional role was different. As L&G had conceded, he wasnt  an expert in 
pension matters.  
L&G, the professional trustee  of his SSAS (bound by trust and contract  law and the 
best advice obligations  under the Code and with whom hed built up twenty  years  
trust) for not providing relevant information  about the multiple risks hed be facing. 
L&G was fully aware of those  risks and suppressed  information which  it was bound to 
disclose to Mr T by clause 6 of the Code. 
Mr T wrote to us on 28 January 2019. He referred to L&Gs letter  of 6 November 1990 as an 
example of the use of the word advise in an information context. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive considered very carefully 
Ref: DRN723862715all Mr Ts said in response to my (further)  provisional  decision.  But, having  done so, I havent 
changed my views. So my additional comments are relatively brief.   
Pension Review
Mr T considers his Section 32 policies should  have been reviewed. And he says that, in my 
provisional decision, I said the policies  should have been reviewed. I can understand why Mr 
T understood that was what  I was saying. But that wasnt quite what  I meant to say. To 
explain, I said that the policies should  have been  identified as part of the Review population. 
I went on to say that L&G should  then have reviewed Mr Ts case. My use of reviewed was 
confusing, given the overall context of the Pension Review. It would have  been  clearer if Id 
said instead that L&G should  then have looked  into Mr Ts case, to establish  if L&G needed 
to review the sale of the policies. 
I went on to say that L&G was only required to review policies where  advice had been given 
 and L&G maintains that no advice was given. I acknowledged L&G didnt have a file note 
recording the basis of any decision that the policies were sold on an execution  only basis.  I 
recognised that was unsatisfactory. 
But I didnt think L&G should be asked  to review the policies  now.  Essentially if L&G had 
done what it should have done at the time I dont think it would have been required to review  
the policies. Mr T may feel that as L&G cant demonstrate by reference to contemporaneous  
records that it took the necessary steps  to exclude the policies from the Review it should 
review them  now. But I dont think it would  be fair to impose an obligation  on L&G which Im 
not satisfied existed at the time,  even  if L&Gs records are lacking. Ive also borne in mind  
the wider circumstances and that the Section 32 polices came about as part of the transfer 
of the bulk of Mr Ts OPS  benefits to the SSAS. 
Mr T suggests L&G should comment on his claim that the Section 32 policies were mis sold. 
The point here is that I dont  think  L&G gave  any advice to Mr T. So L&G didnt sell the 
policies as such  just set them up. So the question of whether the policies were mis sold  
that is werent suitable for Mr T doesnt  arise. Ive dealt below with what  Mr T says about 
L&Gs obligations and whether it was required to give Mr T advice. 
best advice under the Code
Ive considered Mr Ts additional comments. I dont think he and I are going to agree about 
this aspect of the matter.  Mr Ts position  is that L&G was required under the Code to give 
him advice.  Mr T says that includes giving information and that L&Gs advice was unsuitable 
or incomplete. I dont  agree. My view is that L&G wasnt required to provide advice and, from 
what Ive seen, L&G didnt  give Mr T any advice. And I draw  a distinction between  advising 
and giving information. I agree that L&G was required to provide Mr T with information. But I 
think L&G could then leave it up to Mr T decide  if he wanted to go ahead. 
I dont have much to add to what Ive already said. I agree the Code was in place to protect 
investors; that Mr Ts Section 32 policies were  invested in L&Gs with profits fund, which  was 
a collective investment;  and that L&G, in setting up Mr Ts Section 32 policies was carrying 
on relevant investment business  as per clause 1 of the Code. 
But I still dont think all sections of clause  6 apply. Subsection (e) says the representative 
shall not advise  unless the representative  has complied with (i) and (ii) and the 
representative bona fide believes it to be in the interests of the investor. But, from what  Ive 
Ref: DRN723862716seen, L&Gs representative didnt give Mr T advice. So those obligations, including  making  a 
comprehensive study of Mr Ts need  to make the investment and his financial resources and 
disclosing all the relevant likely consequences  and disadvantages to him, didnt arise.  
And I still think advice denotes making  a recommendation or similar. The Code  draws  a 
distinction between  giving  information and advice. I maintain that L&G was bound  by the 
Code generally,  including  other  parts of clause 6  for example sub section  (a)  but not by 
the provisions which  specifically related to where advice was given. 
Im not going  to ask L&G to see if it can establish  what its actuary may have said about the 
higher premium required for one of the Section 32 policies. Im not sure,  given the time thats 
elapsed, that L&G will be able to shed any further  light on this. In any event, I dont see that 
information was withheld from Mr T. He knew a higher  premium  had been requested and 
that L&Gs representative had queried it with L&Gs actuary. If Mr T didnt get an answer he 
could have chased it up before he went ahead with the Section 32 policy.  
But I mention all that largely in passing. My view is that Clause  7 of the Code (which refers  to 
the representatives competency to advise) doesnt  apply if L&Gs representative wasnt 
advising Mr T. 
the cause of Mr Ts losses and his calculation of his losses
My comment, about disappointing investment returns since  1990, wasnt  aimed in particular 
at Mr T because  of his profession. I think most investors who get an illustration  based  on 
assumed future investment returns would realise theres a risk, if the investment doesnt 
perform as well as expected, that the final fund value  will be lower and that will impact on the 
benefits ultimately payable. I dont say that Mr T should have known any more  than that. Or 
that he should have been able to predict  that investment  returns  would fall.  
And I dont  see that L&G could  have been  expected to know in 1990  that investment 
conditions would deteriorate. Nor do I think L&G could  or should have predicted a continued  
fall in annuity rates. Or provided Mr T with the information hes suggested and when  L&G 
wasnt advising him.  
So I dont  agree with Mr Ts comments that L&G would have known that hed get less from 
the Section 32 policies,  including  that he wouldnt get any payments between  60 and 65. 
L&G has honoured the guarantee  it gave  to pay the GMP from state  pension  age. As Ive 
said before, L&G didnt give Mr T any advice. I think the information L&G gave him was 
adequate. 
did Mr T deal with L&G in 1989/1990  on an execution only basis?
I can understand why Mr T finds it unsatisfactory  that L&Gs  representative suggested, in 
2013, that Mr Ts dealings  with L&G in 1989/1990 were on an execution only basis and when 
theres no contemporaneous record that was the case. But that doesnt  mean  I should find 
advice was given  if I dont think theres  evidence to support that. Im not going  to ask L&G to 
provide a record of the telephone call the day before as my decision turns  on such  
contemporaneous documentation as there is, rather than what  the parties  now say about  
what happened although I have taken that into account too. 
Ref: DRN723862717Mr T said that it was L&Gs representative  (and not any other party, including  Mr T) who 
suggested a SSAS.  But, as Ive said, I dont think simply raising the possibility of a SSAS as 
a potential pension  vehicle amounts to advice. 
Mr T then met with L&Gs  trustee services representative to discuss  things further. Mr Ts 
referred to the importance of what he understood about L&Gs  fiduciary duties as the 
professional trustee  of the SSAS in his decision to go ahead with a SSAS. But, as Ive 
explained, L&Gs role as a trustee isnt something  Im looking into. And whether L&G 
discharged its duties as a trustee properly is something the Pensions Ombudsman 
considered as part of Mr Ts complaint there. 
From what  Ive seen L&G didnt advise Mr T. It might have assisted  if L&G had a record to 
show that Mr Ts transactions were undertaken on an execution  only basis. But that wouldnt 
be conclusive. Wed  still look at the underlying factual situation  and if there was any 
evidence that advice had been given. 
I dont think theres such evidence here. In particular the correspondence at the time doesnt  
indicate that L&G was advising Mr T. It looks to me that L&Gs representative  was careful to 
ensure that he didnt  give advice and that Mr T understood that was the position.  
If I cant say that advice was given  then, despite any shortcomings  in L&Gs record keeping,  
Mr Ts dealings with L&G were on a non advised or execution only basis.  Im not going  to 
ask L&G to provide  a record  of the telephone call in which preceded  the representatives 
statement in 
would Mr T have gone ahead with the transfers  anyway? 
Mr Ts unhappy  with any suggestion that hed have gone ahead with the transfers to the 
Section 32 policies in any event. But, as Ive said, looking at the Section 32 policies in 
isolation isnt really  representative of Mr Ts situation  at the time. The Section  32 policies 
followed on from his decision to set up the SSAS.  The transfer of the bulk of Mr Ts OPS  
benefits to the SSAS isnt something  I can look into. Im only looking at what  L&G did (or 
didnt do) in relation to the Section 32 policies. And Im conscious that any shortcomings  on 
L&Gs part should be considered in the context of the overall  situation   in particular Mr Ts 
decision to set up a SSAS which couldnt accept the protected rights  element of the 
transfers. 
Im also looking at it from the perspective  that L&Gs duties werent as onerous as Mr T 
suggests. If L&G wasnt required  to provide  the sort of information Mr T says he should have 
got then I dont see theres  any real reason to assume that he wouldnt have gone ahead  
anyway as his position and what he knew wouldnt have been  materially  different. 
my decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7238627