K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs B said The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them  mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr R and Mrs B bought the PPI when taking out a mortgage in 2000. 
RBS said it wasnt responsible for selling the PPI  because this was sold alongside the 
mortgage by an independent mortgage broker.   
But RBS did offer to pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was above  
50% of Mr R and Mrs Bs PPI premium. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think RBS had sold the PPI to Mr R 
and Mrs B. And that RBSs offer was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
Mr R and Mrs B disagreed with this, so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
They have said that the PPI was sold in an RBS branch and pointed to a letter inviting  them 
to the branch to meet a broker of the same name  which the letter  from RBS described as 
one of our Mortgage  Advisors.
Because this complaint hasnt been resolved, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  RBS sold 
the PPI to Mr R and Mrs B. 
I can understand why Mr R and Mrs B think RBS is responsible for the sale of PPI  
particularly in light of the letter theyve provided.  
But considering all the evidence, on balance the weight of evidence  leads me to conclude  
that:
The broker belonged  to a different company  independent of RBS.
The PPI was sold by the broker at the same time as the mortgage.
So RBS wasnt responsible for selling the PPI.
This is because:
The broker sent the mortgage application  to RBSs centralised  mortgage processing 
centre. 
RBS then liaised with the broker about additional documents that were required for 
the mortgage application, and returned the partially  completed  PPI application form 
and direct debit instruction to the broker for Mr R and Mrs B to fully complete them.
Ref: DRN71875542Mr R and Mrs B signed the PPI application  form shortly after it was returned to the 
broker.
The company  the broker was working for was due a fee for selling the mortgage   
and I dont think this wouldve  been the case if the broker was an RBS employee.
The mortgage application wasnt signed  on the date of the appointment at the RBS 
branch, but nine days later, shortly  after RBS had returned the forms to the broker.
This means  I dont  think RBS sold the PPI. So it doesnt need to refund everything Mr R and 
Mrs B paid for it. 
But RBS has already offered to give them back some of the cost of the PPI. Now Ive issued 
my final decision, and if it hasnt done  so already, RBS should  make arrangements to pay 
this to Mr R and Mrs B. I dont think it needs  to do anything more than that.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7187554