K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sent details of her sole 
accounts to her husband.
background
Mrs T says NatWest  wrote to her husband with details of her sole accounts  without her 
permission. She says she would like an apology for what took place and compensation.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake  and says the letter was wrongly  addressed to Mrs Ts 
husband but was intended  for Mrs T herself. Its apologised to Mrs T and paid £100  
compensation and has provided  feedback to the department that made  the mistake. 
NatWest says the letter didnt contain sort codes  just account numbers.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and also complains about  NatWests questioning of her 
relationship with her husband.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought NatWest had dealt fairly with it by 
apologising and paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The adjudicator 
didnt think Mrs T had suffered any financial loss and thought  any data breach findings would 
have to be dealt  with by the Information  Commissionaires  Office  (ICO).
Mrs T didnt  accept that view and says this was a breach of her confidential data which  she 
has told the ICO about and that the adjudicators decision is unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reasons. I can see that Mrs T wanted 
NatWest to apologise and pay her compensation which I think it has fairly done. I also make 
clear that it would be for the ICO to decide if a data breach has taken place and in any event 
I can see that Mrs T has referred her complaint  to it.
I have looked  at the letter that was intended  for Mrs T but addressed to her husband and 
opened by him. I dont  think  that letter contained any financial information  for example but 
contained details  of Mrs Ts account  number. I appreciate Mrs Ts concerns in these 
circumstances and there can be no doubt  NatWest  made a mistake.  But I dont think Mrs T 
suffered any financial  loss or that the information in its self could be used inappropriately. 
Mrs T hasnt  told us that she was estranged from her husband and so I dont think  NatWest  
acted unfairly by questioning Mrs T about her relationship as for example if the parties were 
separated then the implications could have been more  significant.
Im satisfied that NatWest  has fairly apologised for what took place and has told Mrs T that it 
will provide  appropriate  feedback to the department that made  the mistake. Im also satisfied 
that its paid a fair and reasonable level of £100 compensation. I think  that award fairly 
reflects the level of NatWests mistake, the fact that no financial loss took place  and the fairly 
limited impact of that mistake on Mrs T.
Overall Im satisfied NatWest has dealt fairly with this complaint and so I cant  fairly order it 
to do anything further in those circumstances.
Ref: DRN72185732my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7218573