K820x#14complaint 
Mrs O is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  wont refund her after she was the victim  
of a scam.  
background
Mrs Os father was contacted by a company claiming to be based in New York, in relation to 
some shares Mrs O owned in an investment company. They said they were interested  in 
purchasing Mrs Os shares as part of a takeover of the investment company. Mrs Os father  
did not have any suspicions  regarding the call or the takeover and passed the information on 
to Mrs O.
Mrs O says she spoke to the advisors who were well educated, well informed and had a 
significant amount  of detail about the takeover. She says she had several conversations  with 
the different  companies involved in the arrangement  and had no reason to doubt their 
legitimacy. She was told the takeover needed to remain  confidential and she would need to 
sign a non-disclosure  agreement as part of the deal. She agreed to put up a bond in order  
for her shares to be purchased by this company. She was told shed receive the payment for 
her shares plus the returned bond payment when the takeover was complete. As a result of 
these negotiations she made  a swift payment of £6,789.37 on 19 June 2014. 
Nationwides notes  say Mrs O looked  up the company she had been  dealing with after she 
made the payment and thought she had been  scammed. She reported it to Nationwide and 
asked if her money could  be recovered  or refunded.
Nationwide didnt uphold  her complaint. It said Mrs O raised the scam in July 2014 and it 
attempted to recover the funds but this was unsuccessful. As she made  the payment of her 
own accord and without carrying out sufficient  due diligence  checks, it was unable to uphold  
her fraud claim or refund her money.  
Mrs O didnt accept Nationwides final answer. She said Nationwide  needed  to demonstrate  
she had been  grossly negligent in order to refuse  a refund. She didnt feel her actions had 
amounted to gross negligence as neither her or her father, both professionals,  had any 
grounds for suspicion that they were being  scammed. 
Mrs O also said that many banks check with their customers  where theres unusual 
movement on accounts, but that didnt happen here when she made an unusually  large  
international payment. If it had she wouldnt have lost this money to the scam. 
One of our investigators  looked into things. She said that the payment was authorised, even 
though Mrs O had been tricked  into making the payment. But, she went  on to consider the 
nature of the payment  to decide if Nationwide acted  fairly when executing  it. The investigator 
concluded the payment wasnt suspicious or unusual and so didnt think  it was unreasonable  
that Nationwide followed Mrs Os payment instruction. She also considered that it was an 
international payment but given all the other  circumstances and the usual account activity, 
she didnt think this was enough to say Nationwide ought to have intervened with the 
payment.
Ref: DRN71687442The investigator also went to on to say that even if she were to consider it was an unusual  
payment, she didnt think it would have made a difference  here. The scam was particularly 
sophisticated and persuasive and Mrs O had signed  a non-disclosure agreement so she 
didnt think Mrs O wouldve revealed  what the payment was for, if Nationwide had asked. 
She felt, that if given  a warning about scams,  Mrs O wouldnt have changer her mind  about 
making this payment given how persuaded she was that it was genuine.  
Mrs O disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary she said:
-she felt that the case turned on whether she had been grossly  negligent  when 
deciding to make the payment and not about whether she authorised the payment;
-although genuine transfers  from her account were of a similar size, they were to 
known UK entities which she had regularly made payments  to;
-the scam  payment was international and had the bank suggested that it could be 
fraudulent she thinks it would have been  highly unlikely that she wouldve proceeded;
-it was shortly after she made the payment  that she started  to have  concerns  and 
contacted Nationwide to ask them to stop the payment; 
-the payment  went to a different country to where she thought it was going  and if the 
business had flagged this it would have  caused her concern  and she wouldnt have 
gone ahead; and
-she feels she has been  discriminated against  because genuine payments on her 
account happen to be of a similar amount to the scam payment, she says its the 
nature of the payment  and not the value of it which  should be the overriding factor 
here. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear Mrs O has been  the victim of a scam and lost this money. I know this cant 
have been easy  for her, either financially or emotionally. And I appreciate that she feels  
strongly that Nationwide  ought to be responsible for her losses  here.  But Im not upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Authorisation
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations (PSRs)  and the terms and conditions of the customers  account. The 
PSRs set out when  a customer and when a bank is responsible for transactions  on an 
account. Mrs O has said she doesnt  think Nationwide can hold her responsible for the 
transaction if it cant show that she wasnt grossly negligent when making the payment. 
However, gross negligence is only a consideration under the PSRs when the payment is 
unauthorised. Here,  Mrs O set up the payee and executed the payment herself. Whilst she 
was tricked into doing so and believed she acted in good faith she still made the payment. 
Ref: DRN71687443So, Im satisfied she authorised the transaction and the starting position is that shes liable 
for doing so. Gross negligence isnt a relevant  consideration in this case.
The transactions
There are some situations where we might expect  a bank to question  transactions,  if they 
are particularly unusual  for a customer. Here Nationwide didnt ask Mrs O about the 
transaction whilst  it was taking place and I dont think it ought to have done. I dont find the 
scam payment was so unusual that it meant  Nationwide ought  to have been on notice  
something wasnt right. And Ill explain why:
-The value of the scam payment  doesnt stand out as being unusual.  Mrs O regularly 
made payments  on the account  for over £1,000 and there are several payments in 
April 2014 of over £3,000,  £7,000  and two for over £11,000. I accept Mrs Os point 
that value isnt the only consideration here,  but it is still relevant, and the value of the 
payment doesnt  appear unusual or suspicious.  
-Looking at the account activity  in general,  the account doesnt appear to be used as 
a main current account. But there are direct debits, cheque  payments, cash  
withdrawals and bank  transfers in and out of the account. And the account is used 
regularly each month. The balance fluctuates  from being overdrawn to being  in credit 
by up to as much  as £8,000. In April 2014  up to £21,000 in payments were made in 
one day. So, the scam  payment doesnt  look unusual or suspicious compared the 
other activity on the account. 
-Prior to the scam payment there is a corresponding  credit into the account which 
appears to fund the scam payment. The payment therefore doesnt  impact the 
balance of the account. Over £1,000 remains in the account after the payment is 
made, which isnt unusual given the activity and varying balance on the account  in 
the months prior to the scam. Its common to see a payment  of this size being funded 
in advance so I dont think this represents unusual account behaviour.
-Given how long ago the payment was made Nationwide isnt able to provide 
information about any new payees set up on Mrs Os account prior to the scam.  
However, I can see that throughout 2019  Mrs O regularly set up new payees. From 
this evidence I dont  think it would have been unusual  for Mrs O to set up a new 
payee on her account in 2014. And, a new payee by itself,  isnt an indication  that a 
payment is suspicious. 
-Mrs O said she received  money  from outside  the UK but cant  recall making any 
payments to countries outside the UK. From the five months  of statements Ive seen 
(prior to the scam) there  arent any international payments on the account  but that 
isnt to say that Mrs O never made  any. There does appear to be an indication of 
international payment in 2018,  some years after the scam.  But I would say that from 
the statements  I have  seen it does appear  unusual for Mrs O to have made an 
international payment. 
Ref: DRN71687444I thought about  all these factors together and overall  Im not persuaded the payment was so 
unusual or suspicious  that Nationwide ought to have intervened or prevented it. I dont think 
the factor of the scam  payment being international is enough to say Nationwide ought to 
have prevented the payment or intervened given the date of the events and the other 
account activity. But Ive gone on to consider  what I think  would have most likely happened if 
Nationwide had intervened.  
would intervention have made a difference?
Having thought about all the circumstances of the transaction Mrs O made,  including;  her 
knowledge, the sophistication  of the scam, and the documentation  she received, Im not 
persuaded that any intervention by Nationwide, if it had occurred, would have made a 
difference here. I say this because:
-Mrs O has explained  that her father was persuaded by the legitimacy of the 
transaction being proposed, which Im persuaded she placed some  reliance on. And 
she also said she believed it all to be genuine  herself.
-Mrs O received several documents prior to the payment and didnt suspect anything 
was untoward.  The documentation  looks professional and supports what  she was 
told about the agreement and the transactions. So I dont think any discussion about  
this would have  caused suspicion for her or Nationwide  although Ill comment on 
this in more detail later as Im not persuaded  it would have been discussed.  
-Mrs O has said Nationwide ought  to have alerted her and been concerned that she 
was making an international payment to a different country to where  she though  the 
company she was dealing with was based.  And in particular  should  have been 
concerned about the destination  of the payment. I have  seen the payment instruction 
Mrs O received from the scammers  and this quite clearly shows the country the 
payment is being made to. Weve asked  Mrs O about this and she has said it was a 
long time ago, but she did think it was odd, given that the companies she thought  she 
was dealing with was based in a different country. I think  the details  on the payment 
instruction were clear  about the destination  of the payment.  And Mrs O has 
acknowledged seeing them and not questioning this with the companies  she was 
dealing with. So, Im not persuaded that Nationwide, bringing this to her attention, 
would have made any difference to her decision to make the payment as she already 
knew where it was going. Its also likely that if this had prompted Mrs O to question it, 
which Im not necessarily persuaded would have  happened, the scammers would 
have likely provided an explanation for this anomaly which again I dont think  Mrs O 
wouldve been concerned about, given how persuaded she was that the transaction 
she was making was genuine. 
-Mrs O also signed a non-disclosure agreement which said she couldnt discuss  the 
takeover agreement that was sitting behind the transaction. I think this is significant in 
considering if intervention from Nationwide would have  made a difference.  Mrs O 
signed what appeared to be an official legal document and I think  with her knowledge 
and background  means this would have  been something she understood and 
believed to have  had legal standing. So, if Nationwide had asked her questions  about 
the transaction she was making, I dont  think she would  have  revealed  the true 
nature of it.
Ref: DRN71687445-The document Mrs O received with the transaction  details provides a reason for the 
transfer as professional services and gives a reference number. Its possible, if 
questioned, Mrs O may have said this was the reason for the transaction. And I think 
given her background and profession  this could have sounded reasonable to 
Nationwide. 
Ultimately, Mrs O appears to have been  sufficiently persuaded of the legitimacy  of the 
events leading up to the payment; she had been  in detailed conversations  with the various 
companies involved before making the payment and her father had been convinced by it too, 
which Im persuaded  she placed some reliance on. So, Im not persuaded, if Nationwide  had 
warned her about  possible  scams  in general  or investment scams specifically that she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment  in any event.  
summary
In all the circumstances, I dont think Nationwide made an error here in executing  Mrs Os 
payment  in-line with her instructions. But even if it had intervened, I am not persuaded this 
would have resulted in a different outcome  or prevented Mrs Os losses. Had Nationwide 
challenged the payment  with her, it seems likely that she would have asked it to proceed  
nonetheless - in light of the sophistication of the scam which convinced Mrs O it was 
legitimate, the signing of the non-disclosure agreement and that it was clear  what country 
the payment was being made to. Nationwide would probably have gone away reassured and 
proceeded  and the scam  would  still have succeeded.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7168744