K820x#14complaint
Mrs As unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) wont reinstate and 
consider a claim on her lapsed term assurance policy.   
background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs A jointly took out a term assurance policy  to cover  them  if they fell 
terminally and passed away, with a term of 20 years.  
In February 2016,  Mr A became unwell and the following month  he was diagnosed  with a 
brain tumour. In August 2016, L&G cancelled Mr and Mrs As policy,  as the policy premiums 
hadnt been paid since mid-May 2016. And Mr A sadly passed away  at the end of June 
2018.
A few months before Mr A passed  away, Mrs A contacted L&G, via her representative,  and 
was told their policy had cancelled due to non-payment and couldnt be reinstated  for a claim 
to be made  on it.  
Mrs A raised a complaint with L&G, saying Mr A missed payments as his diagnosis affected 
his functioning.  And that as hed looked after their finances, Mrs A didnt know about  the 
policy. She also said L&G should pay a terminal and critical illness claim, as Mr As 
diagnosis was made before premiums stopped being paid. 
In response, L&G said it wouldnt reinstate the policy  or consider  a claim, as it was correctly 
cancelled before Mr A passed away. It said direct debits for the premiums were returned  
unpaid, so it wrote to Mr and Mrs A about this and then cancelled  the policy when it didnt 
hear back. L&G also said that while Mrs As representative told it Mr A cancelled  all direct 
debits following his diagnosis, it cancelled the direct  debit for this policy, so his diagnosis 
didnt cause it to lapse.  
L&G also said Mr A wouldnt have met the terminal  illness  definition  while  the policy was still 
in place. It said the medical evidence shows he was receiving radiotherapy, so it would have 
deferred a claim until treatment had been exhausted, by which point his policy had lapsed.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs A brought her complaint  to our service. Mrs A said she only became 
aware of the policy around the time she contacted L&G in 2018, as Mr A had dealt with the 
finances, due to traditional  values and because English isnt her first language. She said 
Mr A didnt open L&Gs letter as, while he was still capable, he would put tasks  off without 
realising and not get around to them, which his consultant says was caused by his tumour.  
Mrs A said the direct  debit  cancelled  due to insufficient funds in the bank account and that 
she would  have kept the policy up to date if she had known, given they had paid for it for 
years. She also said they fell behind with other  payments too, which  she only became aware 
of when she started to receive court letters. 
Mrs A feels  L&Gs discriminated against her and her family, due to Mr As illness affecting 
his ability  to keep  up payments.  And she says that another  policy provider still paid their life 
insurance claim, so they dont see why L&G wont do the same.   
 
Mrs A also thinks  L&G should  pay a terminal illness claim, as Mr A became unconscious and 
was put onto a ventilator following a fit. And that while he went  on to have further  treatment 
across the years before he passed away,  they were told he might not pull through. 
Ref: DRN75361752One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said that L&G didnt make an error  in 
cancelling the policy, and given the amount  of time thats passed since,  its fairly  refused to 
reinstate the policy and consider a claim.  And theres no evidence Mr As illness was 
diagnosed as terminal before their policy was cancelled. 
Mrs A didnt agree so her complaint was passed to me for a decision.  Having  reviewed all 
the information, I told L&G that Mrs A had provided  us with a copy of the policy schedule 
when it wasnt able to, and I thought it gave the following terminal  illness definition:
If either  Life Assured has an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the 
opinion of an attending consultant and our [L&Gs] Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy 
is no greater than 12 months.
I said the consultants  letter  Mrs A provided shows  that after completing radiotherapy a few 
months before the policy cancelled, Mr As tumour was aggressive with a large enhancing 
lesion. And, while he went on to have further  treatment  that completed after his policy 
cancelled, theres  no medical opinion on his prognosis or how advanced  his illness  was 
while the policy was in place for me to decide  if this definition has been met. So I asked L&G 
to obtain more information about  Mr As illness. After  doing so, L&G let us know  its position 
was unchanged. 
Having considered the further medical  information, which I understand Mrs A also received, 
I told Mrs A I thought L&G acted fairly by cancelling the policy and refusing  to reinstate it to 
consider a life insurance claim.  I also said the evidence shows  Mr As circumstances didnt 
meet the definition  of a terminal illness before his policy  lapsed.  And that theres no evidence  
they had critical illness  cover.  
Mrs A didnt provide  any further comments or evidence. 
Im now in a position  to make my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs A given the circumstances shes  explained, so 
Ill explain  my reasons.
But before I do, Id like to give my condolences to Mrs A and her family and to acknowledge  
that this is a very difficult and upsetting time for them.
cancellation of policy
I dont doubt what  Mrs As said about the way she and Mr A dealt  with their finances or the 
impact his illness had on him managing these. But this doesnt mean to say L&Gs  done  
anything wrong  by cancelling their policy  in the circumstances, or by refusing to reinstate it 
and consider a life insurance claim. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs As policy conditions set out that if premiums arent paid within  
30 days of each due date then it will lapse and L&Gs liability  will cease. And their policy was 
in more than two months of arrears when L&G cancelled it.   
Ref: DRN75361753Before doing so, L&G wrote to Mr and Mrs A on 9 July 2016  in the way Id expect, saying 
their direct debit was unpaid and that they needed  to take action  within 14 days to continue  
with their life insurance. It wrote to them again on 11 August 2016 saying that as payments 
werent up to date it had suspended their life insurance, it was no longer providing  them  with 
protection and their policy would be cancelled if it didnt hear from them  within 14 days. As 
L&G didnt receive a response, Mr and Mrs As policy was cancelled.  While Ive taken into 
account the reasons why Mrs As said they didnt reply to L&G, the policy was jointly held 
and I can see L&G addressed the letters to them both. 
So, while I appreciate Mrs As circumstances, I dont  think  L&G has done anything wrong by 
cancelling the policy. And, by the same reasoning, I cant fairly ask it to reinstate the policy  to 
consider a life insurance claim for Mr A passing  away. Especially since  L&G hadnt been 
providing this cover  for a long time, as nearly  two years had passed between  the policy  
cancelling and Mrs A contacting  L&G. 
I appreciate Mrs As said another insurer still paid her life insurance  claim for Mr A, so she 
doesnt see why L&G wont do the same. But I can only consider the circumstances of this 
particular complaint against  L&G.   
terminal illness claim
Turning to Mrs As comments about a terminal illness claim, for me to say L&Gs  acted 
unfairly Id need  to be satisfied Mr As circumstances met the definition for a terminal  illness 
claim while the policy was still in place. Specifically, the definition  on the policy  schedule  
means that as well as Mr A needing to have  an advanced or rapidly  progressing  incurable 
illness, Id also need to be satisfied his life expectancy was 12 months  or less. 
While theres no reference to Mr As life expectancy  in the consultants letter Mrs A provided, 
the medical information L&G recently obtained shows me that Mr A wasnt considered  as 
having 12 months or less to live until August 2017,  after the impact of the chemotherapy hed 
had was better known.  Given  Mr and Mrs As policy cancelled  well before he had such a 
prognosis, I dont think L&Gs acted unfairly by declining  a retrospective terminal  illness  
claim. Therefore, I havent gone on to consider whether Mr As illness  met the rest of the 
definition.
critical illness claim
Mrs A said L&G should  pay a critical illness claim, as Mr As brain tumour  was diagnosed  
before premiums stopped being  paid.  But theres  no evidence that Mr and Mrs A had this 
cover as part of their policy. If they had I would expect it to be reflected on their policy  
schedule, but it isnt. And L&G has provided  details of Mr As application  that are held by its 
system, which shows an N next to critical illness cover. Im satisfied this stands for No and 
reflects that this cover wasnt included. So Im not going to ask L&G to consider a critical 
illness claim.
Mrs A feels  L&Gs discriminated against her, due to Mr As illness  affecting  his ability  to keep 
up payments. I dont think L&Gs treated Mrs A any differently than any other customer by 
reason of her being connected to Mr A. And I havent seen anything to suggest shes been  
treated unfairly  by it. 
Ref: DRN75361754Lastly, Mrs A has suggested the policy had a paid-up value,  but the policy  conditions  say 
that if the premiums  arent paid it will lapse without value. So I dont think  it has any value 
that L&G should pay Mrs A for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7536175