K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with 
loans in 2003 and 2004. Mr S says Northern Bank  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Northern Bank had to make  it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about 
it. Mr S says he was led to believe the PPI was compulsory or part of the loan. But he hasnt 
given us much detail about what  was said at the time of the sales  or why he felt this.
Northern Bank has sent us copies of the loan agreements  for both of Mr Ss loans. These  
both included a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked and spaces for Mr S to 
sign to say either yes or no to the PPI. On both forms, the yes box has been ticked  and 
Mr S has signed in the yes  space.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Northern Bank did make  it clear to Mr S that he had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mr S chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr S. And Mr S has said he just followed the advice 
he was given. But, as I explained above,  I think the loan agreements made it clear Mr S 
could choose  not to take the PPI if he didnt want it. So I think the ultimate  decision  about 
whether PPI was taken  out was Mr Ss.
As Northern  Bank recommended  the PPI to Mr S, it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policies couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for him, Northern Bank had to give Mr S clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave him wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But, for the same reasons  I think it was right for him, it seems  like the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr S if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr S off taking it out.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because :
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN72444522To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr S any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Northern Bank 
should also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7244452