K820x#14Complaint
Mr T says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (trading  at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 19 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely this policy was not mis-sold.  I said Id consider anything else anyone 
wanted to send me before the deadline,  but both Mr T and Canada  Square let me know 
they had no further evidence  to provide. Mr T expressed his disappointment with the 
outcome of the case.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusion as before. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment for Mr T. But as an impartial party, I have  to objectively weigh up what  both 
sides have said, together  with the evidence Ive got, to decide  whats most likely to have 
happened. And for the reasons  I explained in the provisional decision,  I think  the evidence 
supports it being  most likely that this policy wasnt mis-sold in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint about  Canada  Square Operations Limited in this particular case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN78499302COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr T says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  (trading  at the time as Egg) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr T bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It covered him in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada  Square  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy of Canada  Squares online credit card application  process  from the time of 
Mr Ts sale. From what Ive seen, there wouldve been a section for PPI which briefly explained  what 
the policy  was for and what  it cost.  Then there were  two options to choose from:  one to buy PPI and 
one to turn it down. It looks like both options were  equally  prominent  and neither one was pre-
selected. According to the electronic record of Mr Ts application,  he chose the option to buy PPI. Ive 
not seen any evidence that the PPI was presented as anything other than an optional  extra. So I think  
its most likely  that Canada Square made Mr T aware he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it  though I can understand if he no longer  recalls doing so after so many years.
Canada Square  didnt give Mr T personalised advice about buying  PPI, so they didnt have to check if 
it was right for him. They  did have to give Mr T enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mr T about  PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind. 
Here, it looks  like Mr T chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it appears he was eligible  for the cover and wasnt 
affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations.
Mr T told our service he was eligible for a very high amount  sick pay through work, and Ive thought  
carefully about this point.  The amount  hes given us is unusual and isnt strongly supported by his 
employment situation. And hes said he cant get any confirmation to back  up the amount. I note Mr T 
told Canada Square  that he was entitled to less sick pay when he first complained.  While Mr T has 
explained that he may have made a mistake that time, its also possible that hes mistaken  this time.  
I also need  to bear in mind  that memories can, and do, fade over time.  Overall, I dont think I can fairly  
conclude that Mr Ts sick pay was so generous  when the amount hes given us is unlikely, its not 
supported by any evidence, and the testimony has been  contradictory. So I think its more likely  than 
not that the PPI wouldve offered him useful cover in addition to his sick pay. Of course, if Mr T 
provides evidence  of his work benefits then I can reconsider this point.
Ref: DRN78499303Further, Mr T doesnt appear to have had any savings  or any other protection in place. I understand 
he could have  sold his home or sacrificed some of his equity, but the PPI meant Mr T wouldnt have to 
go to such extremes just to pay a credit card if he was off sick or lost his job. So based on what  Ive 
seen so far, it looks like the policy couldve  been useful for Mr T in case something went  wrong.  And it 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr T could  cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Lastly, I completely  understand Mr Ts point that hes had refunds of other PPI policies. But different 
PPI policies worked  in different ways,  varied across different businesses,  were sold using different 
methods at different  times, and so on. So just because one policy  was mis-sold,  it doesnt follow that 
a different one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits,  and Ive explained  above why I dont 
currently think  that this particular policy  was mis-sold.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Please could  Mr T and Canada Square send me any more information or comments  to look at by 19 
August 2019.  After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849930