K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  Mr and Mrs F payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies, taken out to cover a mortgage, and 
which started in 1998 and 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Fs comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs F accept  that they agreed  to take the PPI policies. But they say that, when they 
first were  sold PPI, undue pressure was put on them:
We believe the advisor was purely  interested in selling us, ie getting us to take out a 
policy using language of policy vitally needed and policy strongly recommended 
and necessary, using the fear close, rather than considering our circumstances and 
then leaving us to consider and make an informed decision.
The problem I have  in making a decision on this is that I couldnt  know the exact words used 
by the adviser  and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly 
advise someone  to buy an insurance  policy,  even  if the adviser is partly motivated by making 
a sale  as long as the policy is actually something  worth recommending.  The closer it gets 
to making someone  feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less 
acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it would not be fair 
to say the bank  did something wrong unless  I had stronger evidence  of this. 
Ref: DRN79424212Lloyds bank agrees  it did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. But I dont think the 
recommendation was an unsuitable one, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  Its likely Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy.  And finding yourself unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs F received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need  to fall back on any savings or other means  they 
may have  had for paying the mortgage.  This all would  have put Mr and Mrs F in a more 
secure position, if theyd  eventually  lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether 
Mr and Mrs F took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs F would  have  been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying  for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7942421