K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the increases on her premiums on her home  insurance  policy, held 
with CIS General  Insurance Limited (CIS).
background
Mrs R held her insurance policy for many  years. In March 2012  she switched from a legacy 
policy to a newer policy that CIS provided.  Mrs R paid a monthly  amount from March  2012 
up until August 2012s  renewal date. In August 2012, Mrs Rs policy cost £255.75 for the 
year. The policy cost went down slightly the next year, then gradually increased over the 
years.
In August  2018,  Mrs Rs renewal was to cost £425.96. Mrs R didnt renew  the policy.
Mrs R was unhappy as she had found an online quote for home insurance with CIS, as a 
new customer, for a cheaper price.
Mrs R complained to CIS because of the difference  in price between  the two policies. She 
considered she had been treated unfairly and had been overcharged for many years. 
CIS reviewed Mrs Rs concerns. Broadly summarised it said the premiums she was charged 
over the years were  correct. It also explained  its new home insurance quote, included  a new 
customer discount. CIS explained it didnt offer this type of discount to all its customers  at 
each renewal year on year.
Unhappy with CISs response, Mrs R referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should be upheld  and that CIS should  refund 
some of the cost of the insurance.  
CIS responded, disagreeing. It explained the information it had provided to this service 
showed that when Mrs Rs switched home insurance in 2012 it included a discount. It 
explained that over the years the discount was slowly  removed bringing  the cost of the policy  
up to the true cost it associated with insuring  the property. 
CIS also explained that it had provided  information  to show that over the years  it made  
several changes  to the way it assessed the perceived risks associated with insuring its 
customers. So over the years there  were  changes to its rates which were applied to all of its 
consumers.
So CIS said there were  reasons why the premium had increased, and the increases werent  
because Mrs R wasnt engaging with renewal. 
Our investigator reassessed  the complaint and concluded that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He was satisfied that CIS hadnt increased  the premiums  just because Mrs R wasnt  
engaging with the renewals over the years.
Mrs R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Ref: DRN72584752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mrs Rs 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, so Id like to explain why.
I do understand why Mrs R might think she has been overcharged  throughout the years she 
had the policy.  Her policy did increase in price  and she was able to get a new quote from 
CIS for much less than she was paying previously. But the price  increasing over the years 
and Mrs R being able to get a cheaper  quote  now, doesnt necessarily mean CIS has done 
anything wrong  in the years she had her policy. 
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  cost. I would be, in effect 
determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats  not my role. 
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.  
So Ive looked  into the policy Mrs R held with CIS from 2012, to see what happened.
CIS has explained that when Mrs R switched policy in 2012 it included a discount. It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price  a policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated 
with the risk of insuring  a property. Insurers aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years. I dont  think this unfair. 
CIS says the gradual increases in the premiums each year, were  due to the initial  discount  
being recouped.  It says the increases each year were  to bring the policys cost up to the true 
cost of the risk associated  with insuring Mrs Rs property, alongside the levels of cover 
provided, under the policy. CIS explained  that the last of the discount  was recouped in 2016.
So there were reasons  for Mrs Rs home insurance  cost going up from 2012 to 2016. 
Importantly, the cost going up wasnt because  Mrs R wasnt  engaging with the cost of the 
policy at each renewal.
CIS has also provided detailed information about  how it decided how much to charge Mrs R 
for her policy over the years. Im afraid I cant share  this as its commercially sensitive, but I 
would like to assure  Mrs R Ive carefully considered what CIS has provided.
Ref: DRN72584753From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like CIS was increasing Mrs Rs premiums unfairly. It 
has shown that over the years there were multiple  changes to its assessment of the 
perceived risks of insuring  its customers. It reassessed and refined the various risk models 
it has in place which helps  it to accurately work  out what the risks are, and what it should 
charge because of those  risks. These reassessments  resulted  in changes to its rates  for all 
its consumers over the years. 
So there were genuine  risk related  reasons for CIS increasing the premium over both the 
early and later years. Ive seen nothing to suggest  CIS was charging Mrs R more for her 
insurance, just because shed had her policy with it for a long time and wasnt engaging with 
the renewal cost.
Mrs R property and circumstances didnt  change,  and she didnt claim. But with home 
insurance (and most  insurance  policies in general) the way the policy  works is that if the 
book of people  insured  make lots of claims, that will increase the cost of the premiums 
overall for all of the policyholders. But it also means  that if an individual  policyholder has 
made a lot of claims or a made a very large  claim, the impact  on their premium  would be 
less than it would otherwise  be. 
Within a book  of policyholders  there  may have been  a spike  in claims in a particular year for 
example  flood  damage, escape of water or a spate of burglaries that meant the insurer has 
had to pay out more in claims than it predicted. An insurer  then takes these factors into 
account when  looking at the potential  future  risk for this book of policyholders and what the 
cost of the insurance needs to be. 
So while Mrs Rs property and circumstances, may not have changed; and she may not 
have made  many claims  it isnt just the risk of insuring her property that is taken into 
account when  CIS calculates the premium.  There are lots of other factors  involved.
Mrs R thinks because she ended up getting a cheaper quote from CIS shows she was 
overcharged over the years. But the new insurance  quote she got with CIS would have been  
heavily discounted   as it was when  Mrs R switched  in 2012. As I have explained above, I 
think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount  over the subsequent years.  I dont think its 
fair to expect  an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. 
So the new policy quote Mrs R obtained, while cheaper at the outset, would have increased 
in price as well. 
Mrs R says as a loyal customer she should  have received the best  price or a discount 
each year. But Mrs R received a discount  in 2012  which CIS then recouped over the 
following years. I think it is unrealistic to expect  CIS to freeze  her price and then maintain it 
at that discounted level,  never seeking  to recoup  the initial  customer discount  that would 
mean it would  have to provide her long-term insurance at a rate it thought was loss making. 
Additionally, the nature  of insurance and the ever-changing perception  of risk, means the 
cost of insurance isnt static or set.
Mrs R says that had the initial discount she received  in 2012 (alongside a staff discount she 
also received) not been applied, then her policy would have cost around £1,000 in 2012. 
Mrs R says this cant  be right as the policy would have been too expensive.  
Ref: DRN72584754I understand Mrs Rs frustrations, but I dont think thats quite right. Mrs Rs policy cost 
£255.75 in August 2012 and £425.96 by August 2018. This was after the last of the discount 
had been recouped in 2016 and alongside the other increases CIS made  having  reassessed 
the risk over the years.  So the policy wouldnt have cost as much as Mrs R thinks  it would 
have in 2012 had the discounts not been  applied. 
Overall, when Mrs R switched  her policy in 2012, it came  at a discounted rate which  CIS 
recouped gradually  by 2016. And throughout the time CIS held the policy,  alongside it 
recouping the discount, there  were  other  increases due to CIS reassessing the risks 
presented to it in providing the insurance.  CIS has provided evidence  to show what rates it 
changed and why. The changes were applied to all of its consumers policies.  So I cant  say 
that Mrs R was unfairly being  singled  out or treated  any differently by CIS.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7258475