K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Santander UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Mr A says that a number  of transactions  totalling  just over £6000   made on his credit card 
between 2014  and 2015 were not made by him.  He complained to Santander about  these  
transactions in 2018 and told Santander  that he still had possession  of his original  card.
Santander confirmed  that all transactions were made using Mr As genuine card and PIN.  
Mr A could not offer a point of compromise   that is how a fraudster might  have  been  able to 
take his card and use it with knowledge of his PIN. So, Santander said it was holding  him 
liable for the money.
When Mr A came  to this service, our investigator  did not think  he could  ask Santander to do 
anymore either  so Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
Generally speaking, Santander  is entitled  to hold Mr A liable for these transactions if the 
evidence shows its more  likely than not that he authorised them.   But this is a two stage test 
 because Santander needs to show the transactions were authenticated as well as Mr A 
consenting to them.
Based on the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied that the transactions were  authenticated.  
And by this, I mean  Mr As chip in his genuine card was read and his correct PIN was 
entered on every occasion.  So, I need  to decide whether he consented  to them  too.
For the following  reasons  I think he did:
-the disputed  transactions  took place  in 2014 and 2015 yet Mr A does not report them 
until 2018. The transactions were  for a relative  substantial amount and there  is no 
plausible explanation as to why Mr A did not raise the alarm sooner;
-during this period, Mr A was logging onto his online  banking   so the transactions  
would have been visible for him to see;
-Mr A was still in possession of his card in 2018  so this would mean a fraudster would 
have had to take his card on each and every  occasion (of which  there were quite a 
few) and return it to him without his knowledge.  I dont think thats  a plausible  
scenario;
-even if this were to have happened, which I have already said is highly unlikely, there 
is no plausible explanation as to how a fraudster would  know  Mr As personal PIN;
Mr A submits that his card and PIN could have been  compromised without  him sharing his 
personal information with a third party and without someone having access to his card.   On 
balance, I dont think that is possible.
Ref: DRN72972322Im satisfied from the evidence I have  seen that Mr A either made these  transactions or 
authorised someone  else to make them.  Either way, I wont  be asking Santander to refund  
them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7297232