K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Miss S complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused to allow them  to make a 
large cash withdrawal from a branch and then blocked their access  to their account.
background 
Mr C and Miss S hold a joint account  with Barclays. On 22 November 2018 Mr C attended a 
Barclays branch and asked to withdraw  £5000 cash,  which  he needed  to purchase flights  for 
him and his family to travel to Africa to visit family there for Christmas.  He said he was kept 
in the branch for over three hours whilst  staff there  considered his request to withdraw  the 
cash. But they refused to allow him to withdraw  this sum, which  feels  was due to his race.   
Barclays said Mr C then visited a different branch. He made a further request to withdraw 
£5000, which was also refused. Barclays told him it would investigate  his account by way of 
an internal review and that, during that time, his account would be blocked for up to ten 
working days. But it took longer than this for the review to be completed and Mr C and Miss 
S account was reinstated on 12 December  2018.   
During the period of time that Mr C and Miss S account was under review they werent able 
to purchase flights for their family.  And by the time they regained  access to their account  the 
flights had increased  in price to around £11000.  So, Mr C said he had to take a loan out. 
When Mr C and Miss S complained to Barclays about their account being  blocked it said the 
terms and conditions of their account enable it to review customer accounts at any time 
where a review is deemed necessary. And it said this can be done  without  prior warning. It 
didnt think it had done anything wrong  in reviewing Mr C and Miss S account  and it said it 
had followed  the correct process.
But Barclays  agreed that its review had taken longer than the usual ten working days it 
aimed to complete all account reviews within. So it upheld his complaint on this basis.  To 
recognise inconvenience this delay caused Barclays offered to pay £100 compensation and 
£40 to reflect the time Mr C spent  in branch. 
Mr C and Miss S declined this offer. And, being dissatisfied with Barclays  response to their 
complaint they referred it to our service. They wanted Barclays  to explain why it had blocked 
their account. And they didnt think the compensation it had offered here adequately 
recognised the trouble and upset  they had been caused.
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr C and Miss S, they 
didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong or needed to do anything more  here. They  
thought the £140  Barclays  had offered to resolve this complaint was fair. But Mr C and Miss 
S disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr C and Miss S and Barclays  that Ive read everything that 
Ref: DRN75642902they have provided.  So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent  considered  
it. Its just that I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr C and Miss S experienced here. I can appreciate 
that they were  caused distress and inconvenience  by what  happened. But the issue  here is 
whether Barclays acted fairly in placing a block on their account and whether the length of 
time it took to undertake  its internal review was reasonable.
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened  
must have  been  extremely frustrating  and worrying. But the terms and conditions  that apply 
to this account outline the circumstances in which Barclays can block an account. Having 
considered those terms carefully Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them.  
Any account  review  should be completed in a timely manner. And I can see that Barclays  
removed the block from this account on 12 December 2018. This was around a week longer 
than it would usually  take to complete an account  review.
I understand that Mr C and Miss S want Barclays to explain the reason it applied  the blocks  
to their account. But it doesnt  disclose to its customers  what  triggers  a review of their 
account. Its under no obligation to tell Mr C and Miss S the reasons behind this account  
review, as much as they want  to know. 
Its clear that Mr C feels his withdrawal request was refused on the grounds of his race and 
he questions whether his account  was blocked  for the same  reason. As our investigator has 
explained this service is an informal dispute resolution service and whilst we consider law, 
rules and regulations  in reviewing a case, we dont have the power to make a ruling on 
whether an individual has been discriminated against under the Equalities Act 2010.  Instead, 
we look at whether  a business has been fair and reasonable in dealing  with its customer.
Barclays has told this service why it placed the block on the account  and, overall,  Im 
satisfied that it followed  its security process  and was entitled to do what it did here. Barclays  
has asked us to treat information about why it restricted Mr C and Miss S account as 
confidential, as its entitled to. So to be fair to both sides, I hope Mr C and Miss S will 
understand why this service isnt able to share  this with them. 
Overall, I think Barclays gave Mr C and Miss S a fair explanation of what happened  in its 
final response letter. I realise that this didnt go into the level of detail they wanted  or 
expected. But impartially, I think Barclays provided all the information its able to give them.  It 
isnt able to elaborate any further  and I dont  think  itd be fair for me to ask Barclays  to do 
anymore here.
Barclays has accepted  it took longer to undertake its review  than it would have  liked.  And its 
acknowledged this already by offering to compensate Mr C and Miss S £100 to recognise  
the trouble and upset this caused. Its also offered  to pay Mr C a goodwill gesture of £40 to 
reflect the time he spent  in branch.
Its clear they dont think the overall sum adequately  reflects their inconvenience and 
experience. Its my role to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances 
of a dispute. So here, I have to take into account whether the additional time Barclays  took 
to undertake its internal review impacted on Mr C and Miss S.
Ref: DRN75642903Ive no doubt that Mr C and Miss S were  inconvenienced while their account  was restricted 
and I dont doubt theyd have been worried about when access  to their account would be 
reinstated Mr C said Barclays actions seriously  impacted on his relationship  with his family. 
But this isnt something Barclays could have foreseen.  And Ive already explained why I dont  
think it made a mistake in restricting Mr C and Miss S account  and subjecting  it to a review.
Ive reviewed their bank  statements relating  to this account. And I can see that while  they 
werent able to withdraw money, their direct debits were properly met by Barclays.  Theres  
no evidence that payments  were declined while Barclays was undertaking its internal review.
I can see that our investigator  asked  Mr C and Miss S to provide evidence  that they incurred 
a financial loss while their account was blocked  so they could consider whether additional 
trouble and upset  had been caused,  which may not have  been covered by the compensation 
offer Barclays made. They said they incurred additional cost in purchasing their flights. But 
they havent been able to provide any evidence to make me think  that Barclays should pay 
any more than it already  has done  in the circumstances.
I recognise that Mr C and Miss S would have  spent time trying  to resolve matters with 
Barclays. But, Im satisfied  that the compensation offered is a reasonable amount, which  
reflects the impact this had here.
I appreciate that Mr C and Miss S feel very strongly about the issues  raised  in this complaint 
and Ive carefully considered everything theyve  said. But, as Ive already  explained  Barclays 
is entitled to conduct internal reviews of its customers accounts. So, I cant fairly  find that it 
did anything wrong  in reviewing Mr C and Miss S account. And Im satisfied that the £140 
Barclays has already  offered to pay them is fair to compensate them  for the inconvenience  
caused by Barclays  delays in finalising its internal review of their account. So, Im not going 
to ask it to do anymore here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr C and Miss S to 
decide whether  they wish to approach Barclays Bank UK PLC to accept the £140 it offered 
to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2020..
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7564290