K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
As Mr L was the only person covered by the PPI policy I have mainly considered his 
circumstances at the time of the sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs L aware  that the PPI policy  was optional  and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs L say they werent given the option to 
decline the PPI. There is limited information  available from the sale of the PPI in 1991. But 
this isnt unusual  as businesses arent required to keep this type of information  indefinitely. 
With the lack of information  available from the sale I am unable to say that Mr and Mrs L 
werent given a choice in taking the PPI. So I cant uphold their complaint for this reason.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policy to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr L has told us he would  have  been entitled to good sick pay, received redundancy pay, 
and had some savings in place so he didnt need  the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Ls sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI 
would also have covered circumstances other than redundancy, and allowed Mr L to keep 
his savings in place to be used towards other expenses he may have had if he found himself  
unable to work.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Mrs L seem  to have had a need  for 
the cover. So I think the PPI was right for them.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said, including  that they their PPI policy  
was in place for a long period of time so they should be given a refund of the commission 
they paid.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
Ref: DRN74419992The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements  taken out before then, which  were  still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
While Mr and Mrs Ls policy  continued to run past 2008 Lloyds has given me information that 
shows the mortgage it was sold alongside was taken out in 1991 and ended before 2008. So 
based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
Ref: DRN7441999