K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the charges The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) have applied to 
his account and way the bank has treated him. Mr R is assisted in bringing his complaint to 
this service by his wife.
Background
On 15 August 2017 Mr R complained to RBS that the charges and fees on his account were  
keeping him in a cycle  of debt and worsening his financial  hardship. He asked RBS to 
remove the charges  and interest applied to the account over the last six years and to remove  
the default from his credit  file.
RBS said theyd applied  the charges in line with the account terms and conditions.  They  told 
Mr R it wasnt  for the bank to assume he was in financial difficulties and until his letter of 15 
August 2017 RBS found no evidence that such financial difficulties had been the case. RBS 
said once they were aware of the difficulties  theyd acted in a positive and sympathetic  way 
by refunding some charges and also suggesting  Mr R contact their specialist team for 
customers in financial difficulties. Mr R was unhappy  with the response and brought the 
complaint to us.
In both of the views he issued on 1 June  and 6 August 2018 our adjudicator  didnt think RBS 
had applied  the charges  to Mr Rs account  incorrectly or unfairly. And he thought RBS had 
responded to Mr Rs financial difficulties by offering help in trying to arrange  a consolidation 
loan, refunding some charges and offering its helpline  for the specialist team for customers 
in financial difficulties. So he didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the views. He thought the first one contained  some  incorrect  
information and it failed to take into account many  factors and the big picture.  He didnt 
initially respond to the second view but later said he was very disappointed in the way this 
service had handled the complaint and believed the decisions reached directly  caused  the 
escalation of further difficulties with the RBS. He repeated concerns that RBS had failed to 
comply with the Lending Standards Boards lending  code. Mr R also thought his complaint 
hadnt been investigated fairly in the first instance  and that the investigator had failed to 
investigate and review  his response to his initial conclusions in the second view.  Mr R later 
sent in evidence relating to family health  difficulties and said he expected a thorough review 
into the outcome  of the assessment. And he recently told us hed found RBS had applied a 
default to the account which he considered  wrong as any action shouldve been placed  on 
hold whilst his case was being investigated  by this service. He asked for the defaults to be 
removed and compensation for the ongoing  unfair treatment. 
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  that Mr R feels our 
adjudicator hasnt properly understood aspects of his complaint. Ive looked  at everything 
afresh before reaching an independent view.
 
In the first instance  Im very sorry to learn of the health difficulties  both Mr R and family 
members have suffered  in recent  years. I can only imagine how difficult  this situation has 
been for them and Im saddened to hear about the domestic circumstances they find 
themselves living  in now.
Ref: DRN77329582Its clear that Mr R has strong feelings about  this complaint. Hes provided detailed  
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr R will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy or in anyway dismissive. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. For reasons that 
have been explained to Mr R Im just looking at his account here.
The central issue is Mr R has experienced long term financial difficulties; made  worse  by 
long term health  problems in the family  and more recently Mr Rs health has suffered. He 
says despite making  RBS aware  of the difficulties in calls before and at an appointment on 2 
December 2015  RBS didnt respond  appropriately  and offer enough help with his difficulties 
and this has made the position worse. He says all he was offered in 2015 and 2016 was a re 
mortgage and a downgrade of his joint bank  account from a packaged account. He was 
unable to consolidate his credit cards  into more affordable borrowing as hed hoped. He now 
wants RBS to refund the fees and charges  on the account going  back to 2011  with interest 
and for them  to remove the default  on his account.
I understand Mr R feel that RBSs  charges  and their treatment of his account has added to 
his financial difficulties. Hes referred to fees snowballing and being stuck in a cycle of 
charges. Although Im sorry to hear that Im afraid,  after reviewing everything thats 
happened, Ive come to the view that this isnt a complaint  I can uphold. Here  are the 
reasons why I say this.
My role is to look at whether RBS has acted  fairly  and reasonably. Its been decided  in court 
that it generally isnt possible  to challenge  bank charges as being unfair or too high. Since  
that decision, although changes in the industry have meant charges wouldnt be made in the 
same way we wouldnt  expect the new rules  to be applied retrospectively. So, as the 
adjudicator set out, Im not able to consider whether the charges are too high,  or whether 
RBS were able to change their charging structure.  From everything  Ive seen Im satisfied 
the charges have been applied to Mr Rs account  in accordance with the banks standard 
terms and conditions. So I cant fairly say RBS werent entitled to apply the fees and charges 
it did to Mr Rs account. 
In coming to my final decision, Ive also thought carefully about  whether those  charges  were 
applied fairly  and reasonably in Mr Rs particular circumstances. I appreciate he thinks  the 
charges added to his financial  difficulties.  And Ive taken into account that we expect banks 
always to treat customers who are in financial difficulty  positively and sympathetically. 
Banks can only act as wed expect them to once  theyre aware a customer is in financial 
difficulty. And thats important here as Mr Rs complaint in 2017 is that RBS shouldve done 
more to help them with his difficulties from 2015 when they were made aware.  RBS say that 
contact in August  2017 was the first notification of any difficulties. And the records theyve 
sent us support this and show the action they took in refunding certain fees and signposting 
Mr R to a free debt advice  charity or their own financial difficulties team. I consider that to be 
a reasonable response.
Mr R told us on 21 June 2019  information about medical issues  were  sent in several letters  
by recorded delivery  that was received by the RBS and that this evidence was submitted to 
our service  and asked us to refer to it rather than ignore  it. But Im afraid  after a thorough 
review of the information the only evidence of recorded delivery documents being sent to 
Ref: DRN77329583RBS is on 21 December  2017, so after the complaint was lodged in August  2017 and relates  
to another matter.  The first reference I can see of any reference to health  problems  is in a 
letter dated  16 July 2018, where  an undated GP letter is referred  to in the enclosures. 
But even if I accept Mr Rs case that he made  RBS aware of the difficulties  in December 
2015 theres nothing before me to suggest  the action RBS took then, in agreement  with Mr 
R, wasnt in line with their responsibility  to act positively and sympathetically. That 
responsibility doesnt mean RBS must  cancel  all overdraft charges on request. Or that it 
cant  or shouldnt - continue to charge if the account is overdrawn. Although, in response  to 
the difficulties  in August 2017,  RBS did refund  some  charges and invite Mr R to contact their 
specialist financial difficulties team which I cant see that Mr R has done.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that RBS were  made  aware of the problems any earlier than 
August 2017 and I think their response  then was a reasonable one. And on the evidence 
before me I cant say RBS werent entitled  to default this account.
Mr R has expressed  concerns about  the impartiality of this service. I hope Ive explained  why 
Ive come to the decision I have  based on the evidence  before me. Although  I know  Mr R is 
likely to disagree, I think, looked  at overall, RBS have responded reasonably to his complaint 
so I cant ask them to take any further action. 
Mr R feels very strongly about  whats happened so he may want  to pursue the matter further 
through other routes   hes already  told us he intends to raise concerns about  what  he sees  
as systemic  issues within FOS with their MP should  this service fail to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion for them.  But my decision brings  to an end what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with RBS informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr R.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732958