K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and individuals  insofar as I hold British  Gas responsible for their actions. 
This final decision will not name any party other  than British Gas.
Ms T is a business consultant. She had British Gas insurance including  kitchen appliance 
cover for her washing  machine. It was subject  to a £60.00 excess or fixed fee.
She asked  British Gas for help with her washing machine. In July 2018 she complained  
about poor service.  On 20 July 2018 British  Gas sent a (first) final response. It said it was 
paying Ms T certain sums.  It also mentioned loss of earnings.  
On 13 August 2018 Ms T brought  her complaint to us. She said British Gas hadnt  paid her 
enough compensation.
Following a data request,  Ms T in December 2018  sent British Gas a claim for loss of 
earnings based on her daily rate of £1,200.00. She complained about its handling of her 
complaint. British Gas sent a second final response in January 2019  and a third final 
response in March 2019. 
Ms T sent us the documents in late August 2019. British Gas initially  questioned  whether 
each complaint had been  brought  to us within six months of the final response. But in 
October 2019 it said it was happy for us to count all three final responses in jurisdiction.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that the 
British Gas payment  of compensation and the refund of the policy  excess were in line with 
what she wouldve suggested. 
Ms T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
British Gas acknowledged very poor service.
British Gas mishandled her complaint.
It wasted her time and caused  her stress.
She would  accept an additional £600.00.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The kitchen appliance cover provided as follows:
Ref: DRN72221692A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair  it or we decide it will cost less 
to replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier 
and make the following contribution based on their current retail  selling  price:
 100% if your appliance  is less than three years old
 30% if your appliance is three years old or more
You may use our contribution towards an alternative model  of your choice from our 
approved supplier. There is no cash alternative.
Ms T hasnt suggested her washing machine was less than three years old. On 22 June 
2018 she already  had a problem with it. Thats why she contacted  British  Gas for help. It was 
always going to take at least one visit to assess the machine.
From what  Ms T and British Gas have each said, I think  she paid the excess of £60.00. 
British Gas visited on 2 July 2018. But that was an unproductive visit with no conclusion. 
British Gas made further visits in July 2018. It recommended a new machine. The cost was 
about £289.00. 30% of that wouldve been about  £87.00.
The dates show some delay and poor service.  From what  shes  said,  Ms T had to use a 
friends washing machine.  But Ms T was abroad  for some of this time. 
In late July 2018 British Gas sent its first final response. It refunded  the excess of £60.00. In 
addition it paid Ms T £250.00  made  up as follows:
contribution towards  a new washing machine  £100.00
for 4 weeks  without a washing  machine   £80.00
for unproductive visit and delays   £50.00
for telephone calls   £20.00
The £100.00  was about £13.00 more than a 30% contribution towards  the cost of a new 
machine. At that point  British Gas didnt need to do anything further to ensure Ms T got a 
new washing  machine.
On 20 July 2018 a British  Gas customer manager  sent an email including the following:
I have offered  to review, and if necessary increase, these figures if you are able to 
demonstrate that your calls cost more than this, and if your accountant is able to 
prepare something to demonstrate your loss of earnings  The case  has also been 
reviewed by service manager  who agrees with my assessment of the case.   As 
such, we will not increase  this offer without further  evidence of out of pocket expense 
or loss of earnings,  as we feel that it is fair and reasonable.
I find it likely  that this was in response  to a complaint from Ms T about loss of earnings. I 
think British Gas couldve been clearer about  that issue.  
But I dont find that British Gas misled  Ms T or treated her unfairly by offering to review  
further information from her accountant. So I dont find it fair to direct British  Gas to 
compensate Ms T for the money and time spent on preparing her claim.
On 31 July 2018 Ms T asked for details of telephone calls. In August 2018  Ms T had to 
chase British Gas for a response.
Ref: DRN72221693On 30 August 2018 a different customer manager  sent an email including the following:
Please come back to us with evidence of your loss of earnings and we will 
reconsider this complaint point for you.
After she got the list of calls, Ms Ts accountant   for a fee of £30.00 or £35.00  ratified a 
claim document for £1,232.50 loss of earnings.  On 6 December 2018  she sent that 
document to British  Gas. Later in December Ms T had to chase British  Gas for a response.
In late January 2019 British Gas reviewed and declined the claim for loss of earnings. But it 
offered an additional payment of £50.00. After more  delay it sent that amount in March 2019.
Ive thought about the loss of earnings claim. Its partly based  on a list of telephone calls 
dating back to a time well before Ms T called British Gas in June  2018.  And its based  on 
applying Ms Ts hourly rate to the time she spent. 
The claim lacks any other  factual detail about where Ms Ts earnings  would otherwise have 
come from or how the time spent on British  Gas caused her to lose such earnings. So I dont 
find that British Gas treated Ms T unfairly  by turning  down that claim.  
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay Ms T compensation for loss of 
earnings or for preparing her claim.
However, Ive found British Gas responsible for poor service including  delay and poor 
communication. I dont  doubt that this caused Ms T distress and inconvenience over and 
above the inconvenience to be expected  if the claim had been  handled  properly.
Ive thought about what I wouldve directed British Gas to pay if it hadnt  already made any 
payment. I keep in mind  the inconvenience  of having no working washing machine as well 
as having to keep unproductive appointments and having to chase British  Gas.
Overall I wouldve found £150.00 fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that British Gas has paid 
Ms T more compensation than that. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct it to pay 
her any more  or to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7222169