K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out at the same 
time as taking a credit  card in 1996. Mr M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional. NatWest  isnt able to confirm  how the 
policy was sold. This isnt unusual given how long ago the sale of the PPI took place. As no 
one can tell me how the policy was sold, Ive considered all sales channels  in reaching my 
decision.  
Neither Mr M nor NatWest  have  been able to give me any documents  from when this policy 
was sold. This isnt surprising or unusual given that this policy  was sold over 20 years  ago. 
But NatWest  has been able to provide a sample of the application form which is similar  to 
the one Mr M would have  seen. So Ive also thought  about what I know  about how NatWest 
sold PPI policies at around this time,  alongside  the sample documentation  and Mr Ms 
comments.
From what  we know, NatWest wouldve normally got its customers consent  before adding a 
policy and it wouldve usually made it clear that the cover was optional. Looking at the 
sample application form, this has a section about the PPI and it asks applicants  to sign if 
they want to take out the policy.  Nothing  in what Mr M has told me makes me think  he saw 
anything different. 
So on balance, I think its more likely that NatWest gave Mr M a choice in taking  PPI and he 
chose to take it.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. Mr M says NatWest  strongly  
recommended he take the policy for his own peace  of mind. Looking  at what  we know about  
how NatWest sold these  policies, it didnt normally advice  customers  to take the policy.  So I 
think its more likely  NatWest didnt give Mr M any personal advice about taking out the PPI.  
So it didnt have  to check if it was suitable for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Looking at everything Ive seen,  its possible  the information NatWest  gave Mr M about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  such as any existing health  issues or unusual working  conditions.  Mr M says he 
had sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI would  have paid out alongside these 
benefits as well as covering  his repayments if he lost his job. So it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN77723652And from what we know about  the likely  costs of the policy, it also looks  like it was affordable  
and if the costs began to be too expensive; Mr M couldve cancelled the policy at any time.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
This all means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr M has said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7772365