K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to recover  his funds after he sent 
them to a scammer.
background
On 5 September 2017, Mr S sent a £300  payment via online banking  to a scammer. Theres 
been some  confusion as to what the payment was for. When Mr S first raised  this with 
Lloyds in March  2018, he said the money  was for his daughter as she was on holiday and 
needed some extra  funds. He explained  that his daughters  friend had contacted him through  
social media and asked him to pay into an account  in the name of Miss H. He did so but the 
scammer said they hadnt received  the funds.
When Mr S complained to our service, he explained  in detail that the payment had been for 
a mobile phone that hed found  through an online auction website. He says he initially  tried 
to pay through  a secure payment facility, but this was unsuccessful. The scammer  then told 
him to make  the payment  directly into the account  of a Miss H and that he spoke to Miss H 
on the phone. When the phone didnt arrive, Miss H told him that it had been returned to her 
due to postal issues and she would have to re-send it. Eventually the scammer stopped 
replying to Mr S messages and phone calls. 
Mr S notified  Lloyds of the issue on 22 March 2018 and Lloyds requested a bank payment in 
error recall. The beneficiary bank confirmed that the funds had been removed on the same 
day that they were  deposited into the scammers  account. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint based on Mr S most  recent  version of events, that 
he was trying to purchase a phone online. Upon investigation,  the adjudicator felt Lloyds 
system shouldnt have been expected  to flag the payment of £300  as potentially fraudulent. 
He also felt it was reasonable that Lloyds  were unable to recover the funds  from the 
beneficiary bank, as they were removed on the same day they were  deposited.  Mr S 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN79928872The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr S when he transferred  £300, or whether  it should have done more  than it did. 
Mr S has given  two very different and very detailed versions of events. I can see he had two 
scam complaints against Lloyds running  at the same  time, so I think  its more  likely that hes 
mixed up the two. Because of this, I cant safely rely on his testimony about what  happened.  
But I can consider  other  information, such as the statements for the account, the complaint 
notes and the contact notes from the time of the complaint.  Ive also thought about whether 
Mr S may be considered a vulnerable consumer due to him being  the victim of two separate 
scams around the same time. But based  on what Ive seen, I dont think  he would fall into 
this category. The two scams he has described are very different in nature and I think it's 
very unfortunate that Mr S has been  caught  by them at around the same time.
Mr S has been consistent in accepting that he authorised  the transfer of £300  himself and 
this means that Lloyds  had an obligation to follow Mr S instruction to make the transfer. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably  have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer.
Ref: DRN79928873Ive thought about this carefully.  Looking  at the statements for the account, I dont think  the 
payment was particularly  unusual  or suspicious in comparison  to Mr S normal  account 
activity. There isnt anything remarkable about the payment in terms of either its value or 
payment type.  Mr S made card payments and bill payments for similar or higher amounts on 
a regular basis. So, I think the fact that Lloyds systems didnt flag this payment  as 
suspicious was fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Mr S contacted Lloyds  on 22 March  2018, more than six months after he made the payment  
to the scammer.  It isnt clear why there was such a long delay between  him making  the 
payment and notifying Lloyds of his cause to complain. Lloyds initiated a bank payment in 
error recall, which is the process for when someone accidentally sends funds to an incorrect 
account. This process isnt what we normally expect to be completed in a scam complaint. 
But even if Lloyds had followed  the correct procedure and tried to recover  the funds  in line 
with industry guidelines,  it wouldnt have made a difference to the recovery of the funds. I 
say this because  Lloyds has been able to evidence that Mr S funds were deposited and 
removed from the beneficiary bank account on 5 September 2017.  So, the funds were no 
longer recoverable on 22 March 2018 when Mr S notified Lloyds of the scam.
While I do empathise with Mr S situation,  I think Lloyds decision not to refund him in this 
instance was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. It followed Mr S instruction to make 
the transfer of £300, and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. And the 
funds had already  been  removed from the beneficiary account before Mr S became aware of 
the scam.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7992887