K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has administered his sole account.
Mr As relative sometimes acted on Mr As behalf.  But to keep things simple  Ill only refer to 
Mr A in this complaint  even if the action I talk about was actually taken by his relative.
background
In May 2017  Barclays wrote to Mr A about his account. It told him it was going to make  the 
account dormant  in August 2017, unless  he took one of the actions it set out in its letter. 
Mr A tried to contact  Barclays by phone several  times but got nowhere despite  seemingly  
speaking to staff. 
Mr A decided to try another approach instead.  He told us he wrote  to it in June  2017.  In this 
letter he told it what he wanted it to do with the money in his account.  He also told it he 
wanted the business to do some things to help him get better  access  to his account.  He 
heard nothing further. He didnt chase this thinking he didnt  need  to.
Several months down the line Mr A realised hed not heard from Barclays.  Mr A got in touch  
with Barclays in early 2018 to find out what was going on. After  some toing and froing it was 
able to tell him that the money had been released  from the dormant account. Mr A asked it 
to send the money to a third party  bank.  But the transfer failed. Mr A says it took five months 
to finally  get the money transferred. Mr A holds Barclays responsible for this. 
Barclays said it did have a record of Mr A calling it apparently in response  to its letter of May 
2017. But it was not able to take Mr As instructions  by phone  as he had failed its security  
procedures. It said it had no record of receiving his letter dated June 2017. It apologised for 
not responding to it.
Further, it did agree  that, in some other  respects, things had not gone  as well as they could 
have done. In particular, it took into account Mr A had made  a number of attempts to resolve 
matters. Barclays also mentioned that sorting  things out did take a longer than was ideal. 
Also it suggested that a mistake made by it may have resulted in the money being sent back 
by the third party bank.  As a result  it offered  him what it says was a goodwill gesture of £200.
Our investigator took a look at Mr As complaint.  She concluded she had no proper basis to 
ask Barclays to do more  for Mr A. In summary,  she thought that once  Mr A realised Barclays  
hadnt followed the instructions in his letter, he ought to have  checked  what was happening 
sooner than he did. In addition,  he knew or ought reasonably to have known the money  had 
been released and sent to the third party bank in July 2018. But it seems he didnt follow up 
on this until September  2018. She thought it was possible that the reason the third party 
bank had rejected  the transfer  was because Barclays  had added the wrong  details. In all of 
the circumstances she thought the £200 Barclays had already offered for distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
It appears that Barclays accepted this outcome. Ive not been told that Mr A sent in any 
response. The complaint has now been  passed  to me to take a fresh  look at it.
Ref: DRN79530882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has made  a number of detailed points in support of his complaint. 
Barclays too has provided us with detailed information. I have read and considered 
everything that both Mr A and Barclays have sent to this service.  I hope the fact that I do not 
respond in similar detail  here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal  dispute 
resolution service, our role is to reach  a fair and reasonable  conclusion with the minimum of 
formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every  point made,  but to 
concentrate on the crux of the issue.
Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case  in part, here), I have  based  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Both Mr A and Barclays agree it wrote to him in May 2017  making  it clear  it would make his 
account dormant  if he didnt respond to it. From what  Ive seen Mr A knew this would happen 
in August 2017 should he take no action.
Barclays notes show he did try and contact it by phone after he got this letter. But those  
notes also show he failed  its security  procedures. I have no reason  to doubt the accuracy of 
those notes which were  made  at the time. I think,  in the circumstances, it is not 
unreasonable that it declined to take his instructions by phone.
That said,  I think given the telephone  calls didnt get Mr A anywhere, it is likely that Mr A 
followed these calls up with the letter  of June 2017. It seems the letter  was correctly 
addressed. On that basis I can see why Mr A thought it had arrived. Barclays do not appear 
to dispute that the letter  was sent. Rather  it cant find any record of receiving it for which  it 
does not hold Mr A responsible.
But it is significant that in the letter Mr A gave Barclays instructions, those instructions were  
not followed. Mr A tells us he assumed that the instructions had been followed. But none of 
the things he asked for happened,  He asked for a new card to be sent for example and he 
knew he didnt receive it. I dont think it was reasonable in these circumstances for Mr A to 
assume his instructions had been  followed.  I also think  this ought to reasonably  have 
prompted him to check out what was happening with Barclays  much earlier than he did.
Further, Mr A said he had plans for the money that he couldnt go ahead with because he 
needed the money in the account. Given that was the case  for this reason as well, I might 
reasonably have expected Mr A to look into what was going on much sooner than he did. 
However, it seems it was not until early 2018  that he tried to get to the bottom of what was 
happening.
Ref: DRN79530883I realise Mr A suggests that Barclays was wrong to go ahead with making  the account 
dormant without contacting him again. But given thats what  the May 2017  letter  said it would 
do, and what the relevant terms and conditions say and what  industry best practice says I 
think it was reasonable  for it to go ahead without  writing  to him again. 
He also suggests  it didnt initially tell him what had happened to his money.  But the letter  of 
May 2017 did say what would  happen  to the money.  And that is what Barclays did. So I cant 
fairly say Barclays didnt tell him this.
It is clear Mr A didnt always receive  the level of customer  service  he is entitled  to expect 
from Barclays. I can see from the information  Ive got there  was some unnecessary 
backwards and forwards to get the money released  from the dormant account. For example, 
Mr A was asked to provide identification  documents which  he had already given to Barclays.  
I think this was unreasonable and can only have added to the distress Mr A may well have  
been feeling.  
However, it is not entirely clear why the first transfer failed it could have been because 
Barclays made a mistake in the transfer documents.  But I have also seen information that 
shows that Mr A asked for the money  to go to a business account  that does not appear to be 
in his name. This might also have been  the reason the transfer failed. To get to the point 
where I could fairly say on balance I think Barclays is responsible I would need to see 
information from the third party bank and Ive not been provided with this. Mr A has had a fair 
opportunity to obtain and send in this information, if he wanted to do this. Even if I thought  
the failure of the transfer was down to Barclays, which I dont, I think the £200 offered is a 
fair and reasonable award for this part of the complaint.
Barclays records show it told Mr A about the transfer of the money  in July 2018. Ive not 
seen anything to show this wasnt the case.  With this in mind,  I think  Mr A ought reasonably 
to have known  the money  was being transferred  in July 2018. From what  he tells us he was 
counting on that money  to make a purchase. But Barclays says he didnt contact it about the 
failed transfer  until September  2018. Mr A has not told us this is incorrect.  This does not 
suggest he was waiting anxiously for the transfer and wondering  what  had happened.
I can see that Mr A expected a more proactive approach from Barclays.  But Barclays  says it 
didnt know that the money  had been  returned to it until Mr A told it. I find it surprising that 
this is how its systems work. But I have  no reason  to doubt what it says on this point. So 
whilst Mr A might have  expected it to have told him the transfer had failed I can see why it 
didnt and I think this was reasonable.
Barclays records show that once  it knew the money had been returned  it then transferred  it 
fairly shortly afterwards. Mr A now has his money.
At one point  Mr A asked  for £3,000 as compensation. How he has calculated this figure  is 
not clear.  Later he asked  for adequate compensation  without putting  a figure on it. He has 
talked about taking time out of work and having  to spend a considerable amount of time in 
Barclays bank branches to get to the point  where  his own money went to his nominated 
account. I can well understand his consternation and his chagrin  at having to do this. 
However, it seems to me for the reasons I have set out that the £200 offered covers  that.
Ref: DRN79530884It follows that I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable to ask Barclays  to take any further 
action. If Mr A wishes, now,  on reflection,  to accept Barclays goodwill gesture of £200, he 
will need  to contact Barclays directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7953088