K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund  a number of transactions made from 
his current account  that he says were  unauthorised.  
background
Mr K says he has a number of current accounts,  one of which  is this one with HSBC. 
A number  of online gambling  transactions took place during March and August 2018, which 
Mr K says he didnt make  or authorise  from that account. The transactions were  made  
online, using Mr Ks debit  card details.  
Mr K has told us that he still had his debit card after the payments had been made, he lives 
with his partner  and young child  so no one else couldve accessed his card and he doesnt  
know how his card details  came to be used  for the disputed transactions. He thinks his Wi-Fi 
at home  mightve  been compromised in some  way. 
HSBC think Mr K authorised the transactions. They asked all the betting companies the 
payments were made  to for information. They only got three  responses   but the responses  
they got indicated the information they held matched the details HSBC  held for Mr K. HSBC  
also had a recording of a conversation between one of their branch staff and someone  from 
their fraud team  where Mr K was present and the member of branch staff said that Mr K 
had confirmed the transactions that are now in dispute, were  genuine.  They relied on this 
recording in reaching  their conclusion that Mr K had authorised  the transactions.  
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint. She said, in summary,  she thought Mr K had 
authorised the transactions. Shed made her own enquiries with the betting companies 
involved. The responses she got from them, again, indicated  that the information they held 
matched details of Mr Ks personal information,  the accounts were all opened in 2016  but no 
betting transactions were made  until 2018.  She thought it was unlikely a third party  would 
open the accounts in Mr Ks name and then not use them for nearly two years. She found 
one of the gambling accounts was opened  using Mr Ks driving license. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view; Ive summarised his response  to our investigators  
opinion:
He didnt understand  how the gambling accounts  couldve been  opened  using his 
driving license  in 2016, because he says hes only had his license since  2017   when he 
passed his driving test. 
Mr K maintained  that he only ever confirmed transactions  he had genuinely  made as 
being genuine  he says he never confirmed the disputed ones  were  genuine, including 
during the phone call that took place in the branch.  
Hes unhappy thats hes not been  compensated for his other losses  for the time and 
stress this matter has caused. 
He thinks HSBC  is hiding  information and everything theyve said isnt true. 
As Mr K didnt agree,  the complaints been passed to me. 
Ref: DRN74419762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  HSBC have 
treated Mr K unfairly by refusing to refund the transactions hes disputing.  Ill explain why.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr K liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that he made or authorised  them  himself.  
information needed to make the transactions
In order for the transactions to have been made, the person who made  them mustve had 
access to Mr Ks card details. He says the debit card for his account was never  lost and 
theres no one else that couldve  had access to this information. 
Mr K thinks  the transactions have been  possible because his Wi-Fi  has been  hacked. But 
Mr K hasnt provided anything more  to evidence why he thinks this. So I think  its more  likely 
that the person who made the transactions did so because they either had Mr Ks card itself 
or because  they had the card details.  And Mr K says the card has always been in his 
possession and theres no one else who couldve had access to the card. Based on what 
Mr K has told us, and in the absence of any evidence, I think  its more  likely than not only 
Mr K had access to the card details needed  to make the disputed payments.
HSBC has provided  of evidence of Mr Ks online banking  history and also its technical  record  
of the transactions. These records  indicate that some of the disputed  transactions  were 
made using  the same  IP address as genuine use of Mr Ks online banking facility.  So 
whoever made the transactions has done so, from the same place Mr K sometimes  uses his 
online banking. 
the call from the branch
Mr K initially  told us that he discovered  the transactions had taken place when  he went  to 
pay for some car insurance and the payment didnt go through. And that he attended the 
branch to find out what has happening and found out about the disputed transactions then. 
Ive listened to the call between two members of HSBC staff which took place on 22 March  
2018. Although  Mr K isnt on the call, Im satisfied that hes standing close  by because at the 
beginning of the conversation the branch staff member asks Mr K to confirm how to 
pronounce his surname  and he answers  her. So I think its likely he could hear what  was 
being said. And Im satisfied that it was Mr K that was present during that conversation 
because the branch staff member said shed verified Mr K using photo identification and 
taken a signature. 
During this conversation,  the member of branch staff says specifically that Mr K had agreed 
that the payments that had been  flagged  the transactions now being disputed  - by the 
bank were all made  by him and she also says that the purpose  of Mr Ks visit to the branch 
that day had been because hes got a fraud detection marker on his card.  
As I say, I think its likely Mr K could hear all of this being said.  He says he only ever agreed  
that transfers made to his partner were  genuine. But transfers to his partner werent 
mentioned at all during  this conversation. Mr K then contacted  HSBC  on 24 March 2018  to 
dispute the transactions. 
Ref: DRN74419763So I think Mr K did tell HSBC initially that hed made the transactions  hes now disputing,  
which means hes been inconsistent in what hes said about  when and how he discovered  
the transactions had taken place. And also about  whether  he made them,  by initially  saying 
they were authorised and by later saying  they werent. 
online betting accounts
Weve received evidence from three betting websites used to make the disputed transactions. 
All three websites say the gambling accounts  were  opened  during 2016. Not all at the same  
time, but within that year. All three websites have also told us that no gambling transactions 
were made until 2018. Like the investigator, its not clear to me why someone would open 
online gambling accounts in Mr Ks name,  presumably for the purpose  of making 
transactions in Mr Ks name, but then not use them  for nearly two years. 
All three websites have  the correct date of birth for Mr K, either his current  or genuine 
previous address and either  the email address weve  got for Mr K  or one that uses  a very 
similar format  and the same numbers as the email address weve  got for Mr K. Theyve  all 
also told us (and one has provided  evidence) that they checked  Mr Ks identity  when the 
accounts were first used  and that these checks all returned as matches.
One of the betting companies  also provided us with a copy  of a letter Mr K had shown them.  
The letter was from HSBC  dated 13 April 2018  regarding their decision not to refund the 
disputed transactions.  It was addressed  to Mr K at the address we have  for him. This 
company said the letter  had been provided  during a period when Mr K was attempting to re-
open the betting account which had been closed when HSBC contacted them to say the 
transactions to it were  being investigated as possible fraud.  
Mr K says hes didnt open the betting accounts or make the transactions. But its not clear to 
me how this letter couldve been provided to the betting company by anyone other than 
Mr K. And its also not clear why Mr K would  be trying to re-open  the online betting  account 
that had been used  fraudulently. 
 
Having considered all the information  weve received about  the gambling  accounts, I think 
its most  likely they were set up by Mr K. 
the other bank
When Mr K first contacted  us, he told us that hed moved a large amount of money into his 
HSBC account  shortly before the disputed  transactions took place because  hed recently  
had disputed transactions on an account held with another bank, which  Ill call Bank B. Mr K 
also told us that Bank  B had reviewed the fraud claim on that account  and agreed to refund 
him the transactions. After  hed received his refund, Mr K says he moved the money to 
HSBC because he was concerned it was no longer safe to keep it with Bank  B. 
We asked Bank B to tell us more  about  what had happened with that previous incident.  
Bank B told us that they applied a temporary  credit of the disputed  amounts to Mr Ks 
account but later took it back from Mr K because theyd decided to hold him liable  for the 
transactions.
Ref: DRN74419764As part of Bank Bs investigation, they also contacted the gambling  companies involved in 
the transactions Mr K had disputed with them. At least one of those companies had a copy 
of Mr Ks driving license.  Mr K says this cant be genuine because  he only passed his driving 
test in 2017, so has only had a driving  license since then. But its possible to have a 
provisional driving license before passing a driving  test so I dont think this makes a 
difference to Mr Ks overall  complaint. 
the consequential losses
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr K authorised  the disputed  
transactions. So I think its fair that HSBC holds  Mr K liable for them.  
Mr K says,  because of the disputed transactions, he had to sell three cars in order to pay his 
day-to-day expenses. Hed like HSBC to cover  the loss he says this caused - because he 
had to sell these cars for less than he paid - and a refund  of the disputed transactions.  
But as I dont think HSBC  has made  a mistake  in holding Mr K liable for the transactions,  I 
cant fairly say theyre responsible for the losses he describes  or to refund the transactions. 
So I wont  be asking HSBC to pay Mr K what hes asking for 
transactions in December  2018
Im aware that Mr K is disputing further transactions that took place on his account in 
December 2018.  Weve already explained  to Mr K that this would need to be raised  with 
HSBC as this has happened since the events this complaint is about. So I havent  
considered the transactions that took place  in December 2018.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7441976