K821x#15Complaint
Mr A is being represented by a claims manager. Hes complaining about Best Practice IFA 
Group Limited (Best  Practice) because he says he was advised  by one of its representatives 
to switch his pension benefits to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) to fund a series  of 
unregulated investments that have subsequently failed. 
Mr As representative has raised the following issues of complaint:
he was advised  to transfer  his pension benefits  without a detailed transfer analysis, 
critical yield or alternative projections; 
the risks associated with the proposed investments werent  explained;
the advice  provided  was unsuitable in view of his circumstances and proximity to 
retirement;
his attitude  to risk wasnt  properly  assessed;
he was a retail client and these investments shouldnt have been  presented  to him;
appropriate due diligence wasnt carried out on the products recommended;
his best interests  werent considered and he wasnt treated fairly; and
contrary to guidance  from the regulator,  Best Practice  has failed to recognise  its 
ultimately accountable for the advice  given by its appointed representative.
Background
In 2011, Mr A says he met Mr H, who he believed worked for Future Financial IFA Group 
Limited (Future Financial)  in a marketing capacity,  at an investment seminar.  He says Mr H 
subsequently introduced  him to Mr G of Future Financial as a pensions and investment 
specialist who would  advise him on his existing  pension  arrangements.  He says Mr G then 
advised him to transfer benefits from his stakeholder  personal pension with Prudential to a 
SIPP with The Lifetime SIPP  Company  Limited  (Lifetime), which  is administered  by Hartley 
SAS (Hartley). He says he was also advised to invest in a series of alternative,  unregulated 
investments. 
A transaction history provided by Lifetime  shows Mr As SIPP  was established on 10 
January 2012  and that £100,024 was switched from his Prudential pension  on 21 February  
2012. It then shows  the following investments were made with a total value of £98,213:
£15,000 into Physical Silver on 24 February 2012;
£46,233 into Venture Oil on 24 February  2012;
£6,000 into Ukranian Income  on 24 February  2012;
£15,000 into SCS Farmland on 24 February 2012; and
£15,980 into Plantation Capital on 28 February  2012
According to Mr As representative, the Ukrainian Income investment was about to be 
launched when  Mr G advised Mr A but it didnt get off the ground. It says Mr G instead 
moved the funds  internally with the investment provider, GDCV Investments  Ltd (GDCV), 
into another investment, Residential Regeneration.
Mr A made a further investment of £10,000 into Squire Hotels  in 2013, but this took place 
with the assistance of a new independent  financial adviser (IFA) and after Future Financial 
ceased to be an AR of Best Practice.  I understand this investment has been  the subject of a 
Ref: DRN76737902separate claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and it isnt being 
considered as part of this complaint.
Unfortunately, these investments havent produced the expected returns and its my 
understanding theyre still held in the SIPP  but are illiquid and have been  attributed a nil 
value. Future  Financial was an appointed representative (AR) of Best Practice  and Mr A 
believes Best Practice is responsible for his losses.
Best Practice said it didnt recognise  this as a complaint against itself.  It provided  evidence 
referring to Mr H as the adviser, who it says was never  authorised through Future  Financial 
or any other  AR of Best Practice. Because Mr H wasnt authorised  through  Best Practice, it 
says it doesnt  hold any information  on Mr A and hes never been its client. Best Practice  
believes this complaint is about a pre-meditated, conscious and deliberate  act of fraud by 
Mr H and that its previously notified  the regulator  about this. As a result,  it considers it cant 
be held responsible for what  took place.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought we could consider this 
complaint and it should be upheld.  An extracts  is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
Mr As representative contacted us to say he had nothing to add, other than to note that I 
mentioned an aspirefinancial email  address.  He pointed out that the Financial Services  
Register shows Aspire Independent Financial Services was also an AR of Best Practice, for 
which Mr G was recorded as a director with the same address  as that used in the email I 
referred to.
Best Practice also contacted us. It says it remains disappointed with my conclusions, but 
feels theres little more it can meaningfully add. No further submissions or evidence  were 
provided.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided further 
submissions or evidence to question  the findings detailed  in my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent  changed. I still believe the complaint is one we can consider and that it 
should be upheld.
Ref: DRN76737903My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr A accepts  my decision,  Best Practice IFA Group  Limited must pay compensation 
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. It should provide him with 
details of its calculations  in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76737904Extract from provisional decision:
Background
. . . .
Our investigator considered the complaint  is one we can look at in accordance  with our rules. He felt 
the evidence shows Mr A received advice from Best Practices  AR and that its responsible for that 
advice. Further, he concluded this advice was unsuitable and recommended  the complaint be upheld. 
He set out what he thought Best Practice should do to put things right.
Best Practice  didnt accept the investigators  assessment and made  the following  key points:
It feels theres little it can add to the detailed  submissions made in defence of another dispute 
weve been  considering, involving a Mr and Mrs R, in which the circumstances are similar.
It wanted  to emphasise it had no knowledge of this business being  carried out, that it has no 
record of Mr A as its client and it didnt receive  commission.
Mr H wasnt authorised  through  Future Financial and Mr G didnt have individual permission 
to advise  on or facilitate this kind of business.  He therefore acted beyond  his remit and 
authority and its absurd  and incorrect that Best Practice is being  held responsible.
It also questioned whether Mr A complained  in time. It says it didnt become  aware of his 
dissatisfaction until November 2018, which is more than six years after the advice being 
complained about.
In respect of the merits, it believes a decision on this should be deferred until the jurisdiction 
issues are resolved,  including those raised in Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
On the subject of jurisdiction, Best Practices representative made  the following key points  in the 
dispute involving Mr and Mrs R:
Issue One: whether Mr G was involved in providing regulated financial services
Mr G said he didnt  provide pension or investment  advice and theres no evidence to show  he 
did. Future Financial  didnt write any business as an AR of Best Practice  and Best Practice  
didnt pay any commission to Mr G. Further,  Future Financial only appointed two approved 
persons during the period in which it was an AR. These were Mr J (who was permitted to give 
investment advice)  and Mr G (whose  permissions  were limited to advising on non-investment 
protection and general insurance). Mr H was never an employee of Future Financial. For Mr 
G to have carried out the regulated activities being complained about, he would have been 
acting counter to his permissions.
Theres insufficient evidence to reasonably  conclude  Mr G was involved in providing regulated 
financial services, theres no evidence  he was associated with the advice on the form that 
contained his name, and theres no evidence to suggest  he was involved in a pattern of 
behaviour that ran contrary to regulatory requirements.
I should  decline jurisdiction on the grounds that Mr G didnt undertake the regulated  activities 
being complained  about.
Issue Two: Best Practice didnt accept responsibility for any of the business  said to have  been 
performed by Future Financial in any event.
The AR agreement, when read in the context  of the Anderson v Sense case, was such that 
Best Practice  only took responsibility for business of which it was notified and could monitor.  
Ref: DRN76737905Accordingly, it cant be held liable for the acts or omissions of Future Financial under section 
39 of FSMA.
In the Anderson  v Sense case, when determining  what  business the principal  is accepting 
responsibility for as opposed to how that business is to be conducted, the court made  it clear  
the AR agreement must  be read in context. Its relevant to consider the specific terms of the 
agreement rather than referring  to the principals own permissions (as I seem to have done). 
Given the onerous consequences section 39 places  on the principal, it must be applied with 
precision and not using an excessively  broad brush.
In the Anderson  v Sense case, the AR agreement required business  to be written through a 
company agency. The judge determined this restriction was part of what  business  the 
principal accepted  responsibility for and not on how that business was carried out.
Understanding why writing business  through a company agency was a restriction on what 
business the principal was accepting responsibility  for, as opposed to how that business was 
to be conducted,  required a consideration of the relevant clause in the AR agreement  in 
context. This ostensibly  also required an understanding of the purpose of the clause. The 
purpose of requiring  business to be written  through a company agency was that it allowed  the 
principal to limit the products  that could be sold and to monitor the same. This was necessary  
because the principal had no effective  means of monitoring the AR, such  that it wouldnt take 
responsibility for business  not correctly channelled through a company  agency.  If the AR had 
complied with this requirement, the principal wouldnt have approved  advice for the 
consumers to pay into a Ponzi scheme. So it makes sense  that the judge  concluded the 
principal hadnt accepted responsibility  for business that was written without its knowledge.
In this case, theres no provision in the AR agreement authorising either Future Financial  or 
its employees to undertake unauthorised activities  on behalf of Best Practice, either expressly 
or by inference. Further,  Future  Financials business was subject to compliance with clauses 
6.1 (requirement for notice) and 6.17 (requirement to comply  with the compliance  manual and 
procedures). Understanding the context of these clauses is vital to understanding why they 
restrict the business Best Practice accepted responsibility  for.
Clause 6.1 says:
 
The Appointed  Representative shall on behalf of the Principal undertake such of the 
following activities as the Principal may require and for which the Principal accepts 
responsibility PROVIDED ALWAYS  the Business  is notified to the Principal within 30 
days of the date of sale and falls within  the categories for which the Principal  has 
authorisation
Clause 6.17 says:
The Appointed  Representative is not employed  by the Principal but hereby  
undertakes to run its Business in accordance  with the reasonable principles laid 
down by the Principal  from time to time. In particular:
a)To comply with such principles arising after the Commencement Date, and
The Appointed  Representative shall be obliged to comply and adhere to the 
Compliance Manual, Procedures Manual, BPIFA Updates and the rules in force  from 
time to time affecting such Compliance  Manual and Procedures Manual.
In the Anderson  v Sense case, the judge understood the purpose of writing business through 
a company agency was to allow the principal to control what the AR was doing  on its behalf. 
Similarly, the purpose of the requirements in clause  6.1 above (that the principal was notified 
of any business within 30 days  and that any business fell within the categories for which Best 
Ref: DRN76737906Practice itself had authorisation) was to provide a mechanism whereby Best Practice  would  
be able to monitor,  and thereby exert  control  over,  the business  it was accepting  responsibility 
for.
Clause 6.17 also required the AR to follow  the compliance manual and procedures.  This is in 
line with a similar  clause in the AR agreement in the Anderson v Sense case. The purpose of 
this was again to ensure the business Best Practice authorised Future Financial to carry  out 
was tightly restricted  to what it could  monitor, control and approve.
Any advice given in respect of arranging  the SIPP would have been regarded as personal  
pension transfer business  and subject to the pre-approval  process outlined in Best Practices 
compliance manual. This would have required Future Financial to refer the proposition to Best 
Practices compliance team. Without  specific approval and appropriate compliance  checks, 
Future Financial  wouldnt have been authorised to complete the business. While Best 
Practice isnt able to produce  the version of its pre-approval process  that would have  applied 
in 2012, it has provided a copy of the latest iteration dated September  2019.
Its alleged the investments made within  the SIPP were UCIS. It provided  a copy  of a section 
of the compliance  manual  entitled Unregulated Collectives.  The version provided  is dated 
November 2014 as Best Practice doesnt have an earlier version.  This says:
Whilst Best Practice  currently has a Group policy  relative  to the use of unregulated 
collectives that effectively  prohibits their sale without the express  written permission 
of the Compliance  Director,  it is acknowledged that such  products  may be deemed 
attractive to non-retail clients.  As a result, the following procedures must  be applied 
to their sale.
Sales Procedure
The first stage in the process  is to request written  approval for the use of unregulated 
collective schemes as part of a client recommendation / advice process. Such 
approval will only be granted where  it can be demonstrated that the client is not a 
retail client  under the definition of COBs 3.5.3  and where  the adviser has 
demonstrated a sufficient level of product understanding  (via a specific knowledge 
assessment and documented CPD). The Director's approval  will involve the 
completion of the 'Approval Checklist' to ensure consistency in the approach and 
views applied.
This shows Future Financial  was prohibited from providing advice to invest  in UCIS products  
without first requesting  written  approval  from the compliance director. Along with its pre-
approval process, this would  have  allowed Best Practice to restrict the advice Future 
Financial could give in relation to the investments in the SIPP. These are restrictions on what  
business Future  Financial  was authorised for as opposed to restrictions on how that business 
was to be conducted.
More recently, Best Practice contacted us to raise  the following issues it wants us to take into 
account:
It attached a screen shot from a document in which Mr H referred  to the authorised agent  as 
being Charterhouse  Inc Future Financial. It says that, according to the FCA register, Mr H 
was associated with Charterhouse (Chester) Limited, which was a separate business. So it 
questions in which  capacity Mr H presented himself and why he referenced  Charterhouse.
Mr H used his personal e-mail address  on all of the communications its seen  and not a 
Future Financial  business  e-mail address.
Ref: DRN76737907In a letter  to Best Practice, Hartley confirmed  Future Financial didnt receive any payment  for 
this business. Best Practice has no record of receiving any payment  either.
Mr G's name doesn't seem to appear in any of the documentary evidence its seen.
My Provisional Findings  - Jurisdiction
Throughout this decision, Ive referred to the rules I must follow in assessing all aspects of this 
complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules, published  as part of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. For the purposes of this decision, Im only commenting on 
whether the complaint is one we can consider. Im not commenting on whether  it should be upheld at 
this stage.
In considering this case, the usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being  complained about take place when Future Financial  was an AR of 
the principal?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant  eligible?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mr A is an eligible  complainant, we have territorial 
jurisdiction and Future Financial was an AR of Best Practice at the time of the acts complained about. 
There are other issues  I also need to consider, in particular:
Was the complaint  made in time?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Was the complaint made in time?
DISP rule 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  . . . more than: 
a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have become  aware) that he had cause  for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within  
that period and has a written acknowledgement  or some other  record of the complaint having 
been received;
Mr As pension benefits  were switched  to his SIPP and the investments finalised  in February  2012. 
According to his recollections, conversations about this began in 2011. The first evidence Ive seen 
that Mr A made a complaint  (as defined in the rules) is the letter  from his representative to us dated  
27 November 2018, which is more  than six years  later. In the absence  of anything  to indicate Mr A 
complained sooner and within six years of the advice he says he received in 2011/12, I must  decide 
whether he should have known he had cause  for complaint more  than three years before he 
contacted us. So, before  November 2015.
To ascertain  when Mr A should reasonably have known he had reason to complain, I asked Hartley  
for historic SIPP statements  and/or valuations. Unfortunately it couldnt  provide a full set of past 
statements, but it did provide statements from January and September 2013, showing the value  of Mr 
As SIPP as approximately  £104,000 and £111,000.  Its also provided a valuation of the investments 
Ref: DRN76737908from July 2015, which shows a combined value  of approximately £123,000.  All of these valuations 
were higher than the amount  Mr A invested and I dont  think they should have given him any reason 
to think  the investments might not be suitable  or that he had reason to complain.
Theres nothing in the information  provided  by Hartley to show  anything happened between  July and 
November 2015 that should have made Mr A feel differently about  things. The first evidence I can see 
that indicates he should  have become concerned is Hartleys  email of 25 July 2017, which showed  a 
significant reduction in the value of most of his investments. Mr A says this is when  he became aware 
the investments  might  not be suitable and I think the evidence supports his recollection on this point. 
In the absence  of any other evidence to indicate Mr A was told about potential issues with the 
investments sooner, its my view that the date at which he should  have realised they might not be 
suitable for him is July 2017.  He complained  within  three years of this date and Im currently satisfied 
his complaint was made in time.
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
In considering this complaint, Ive relied on the following key pieces of evidence:
The AR agreement between Best Practice  and Future Financial dated 13 June 2011.
Mr As Lifetime SIPP application dated  23 December 2012. It records the name of his adviser 
as Future  Financial IFA Group.
A handwritten note on a Future Financial compliment slip thats not dated but appears to be 
from the beginning of 2012.  Its addressed  to a contact  at Lifetime and says:
Happy new year. Please find attached application for [Mr A] to transfer & set up a 
Cash Plus II SIPP. I trust this is in order. Any problems;  contact me  [Mr H] on 
ffifagroup@gmail.com [mobile telephone number]  or [first name only quoted,  but its 
the same as Mr Gs first name].
Lifetimes New SIPP Checklist, which records the adviser as Future Financial and quotes  its 
FCA reference number.
Lifetimes NB/Money Laundering Checklist, which  records  the adviser  as Future Financial 
and quotes its FCA reference number.
An email from Lifetime to Mr H (using  a Future Financial email address) dated  10 January  
2012, which  confirmed  receipt of the application and that the SIPP  had now been established. 
This was also copied  to somebody with the same first name  as Mr G at an aspirefinancial 
email address.
A series of emails  from Mr H (using  his personal  email address)  in February 2012, which  
enclosed details of applications for the various  investments made in Mr As SIPP.
An email from Hartley to Mr A dated 25 July 2017,  which says:
Financial Advisors:
When you took out the SIPP, the advisor  was [Mr H] with Future Financial  IFA Group 
Ltd.
If the parties havent  seen any of this documentation, they can contact the investigator to request 
copies.
Ref: DRN76737909The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Best Practice  can be held responsible  for the alleged actions of its AR, Future Financial. Ive 
considered all the evidence to decide whether this is a complaint we can look at. We dont have 
jurisdiction to consider all complaints about  ARs.  Our jurisdiction  depends on the facts of the case and 
we have to make findings on the facts that are material to jurisdiction.
Under DISP 2.3.1, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction  if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Further, DISP 2.3.3  says:
Complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which  the firm 
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firm... has accepted  responsibility).
So the issue  of whether  Best Practice (the principal firm) is responsible for the alleged  actions of 
Future Financial  (its AR) involves a three stage  test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; and 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA),  agency or vicarious 
liability.  
step 1  what  are the specific acts being complained about?
This complaint is essentially about Future Financials alleged role in advising on and arranging Mr As 
SIPP and unregulated investments and the suitability of these arrangements.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated  activities  or ancillary to regulated activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme, which includes 
SIPPs, are specified as investments (article 82). So are the units  in a collective investment scheme 
(CIS) (article 81). Advising on the merits of buying or selling these investments  is a specified activity 
(article 53). So is arranging deals  in investments (article 25), and agreeing to advise on investments  
or arrange deals in investments (article 64).
 
The unregulated investments used by Mr A appear to have  many of the qualities  of an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  (UCIS) and neither party has disputed  thats what they are. So Im 
currently satisfied that by either advising him on these investments and/or helping  him arrange  them, 
Future Financial  would  have been carrying out a regulated activity.
Im also conscious the investments took place within Mr As SIPP and it was established with money  
transferred from another  pension.  Rights under a personal pension constitute a specified investment  
in the same way that shares or a CIS is a specified investment. So advising on and/or arranging  for 
Mr A to transfer pension arrangements to a SIPP and then placing investments within  that SIPP 
involved giving advice on and/or making  arrangements  for the rights under  a pension.  So in this 
case, activities involving the unregulated investments  didnt  only involve those investments.  They 
were also activities  involving the rights in the SIPP.
I think  this point was established in the case of Burns v FCA (2018), in which the judge said:
Ref: DRN767379010244. Article  82 (2) of the RAO provides that "Rights under a personal pension  scheme" is a 
specified investment. "Personal pension scheme"  is defined by Article 3 of the RAO  as:
"a scheme or arrangement which is not an occupational scheme or a stakeholder pension 
scheme and which is comprised in one or more instruments or agreements, having  or 
capable of having effect so as to provide benefits  to or in respect of people 
(a) on retirement,
(b) on having reached a particular age, or
(c) on termination of service  in an employment"
245. A SIPP,  the essential  characteristics of which  we describe  at [120] above,  clearly falls 
within the scope of this definition  and therefore the rights  that the beneficiary of a SIPP  has 
under the trust arrangements  that establish the SIPP constitute a "specified investment".
246. Those  rights are also a "security"  for the purposes  of the RAO. Article 3 of the RAO 
defines "security"  as "an investment of the kind specified by any of Articles 76 to 82" of the 
RAO. The investments  that fall within the scope of that definition are, generally speaking,  
shares, debentures, government securities, interests in securities and units  in a collective  
investment scheme as well as rights under a pension scheme which  falls within  the scope of 
Article 82. It is worth mentioning at this point that in relation to collective investment  schemes, 
which are often similar in structure  to SIPPs, that "units" are defined  as "the rights or interests 
(however described) of the participants in a collective  investment scheme":  see s 237 (2) 
FSMA. The significance  of these rights being  a "security"  will become apparent when we 
examine the terms  of COBS 9.2.1 R.
247. The Authority has given guidance as to the scope of its regulation of rights in a personal  
pension scheme in that part of its Handbook known  as PERG. It does so in the form of 
questions and answers and the giving  of examples  as to the type of activity  which  is covered.
248. PERG 12.3 gives guidance as to what in the Authority's view constitute rights under a 
personal pension scheme that are specified investments and securities in the following terms:
"Q16. What are the rights  under a personal pension scheme that are specified  investments 
and securities?
These are all the rights  that membership of the scheme confers on a member.  This may vary 
(for example, where the scheme is a SIPP)  but is likely  to include some or all of the following 
rights:
to make payments to the scheme;
to withdraw sums  from the scheme in certain circumstances;
to transfer value to another  pension  scheme;
to receive  benefits arising  from the capital value of or income derived from particular 
assets or from the performance of a unitised fund;
to place certain  types of property (for example,  commercial property)  in the scheme;
to instruct the operator  which assets to buy or sell for the purposes of the scheme;
to instruct the operator  to switch  funds from one managed or unitised  fund to another;
to appoint  a person  to manage the assets or to give instructions to the operator  about 
which assets  to buy or sell on behalf of the member; and
to instruct the operator  to borrow money to purchase assets  (for example, to take out 
a mortgage on a commercial  property)."
249. We accept the list set out above as an accurate, but not necessarily  exhaustive, 
description of the principal rights arising under a personal  pension scheme, such  as a SIPP, 
which constitute "rights"  for the purposes of Article  82 of the RAO. In particular, we note the 
right to receive benefits  arising from the capital value  of or income derived  from particular  
assets, regardless of the nature of those assets and, in particular, whether  or not the assets 
are themselves specified  investments for the purposes of the RAO. Once again, we draw the 
analogy with units in a collective investment  scheme;  one of the rights conferred by a unit in a 
collective investment  scheme  is the right to realise  the unit by reference  to the value of the 
underlying assets of the scheme.
Ref: DRN767379011250. The consequence  of rights under a SIPP being a specified  investment is that they are 
subject to regulation by the Authority  if an authorised person conducts  any of the regulated 
activities specified by the RAO in relation to them. As the Authority correctly identifies in 
PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 15), that includes the regulated activities of dealing  
in investments as principal or agent, arranging  deals in investments, or advising on 
investments, all of which are activities specified as regulated  activities for the purposes 
of FSMA by virtue  of Articles  14 , 21 , 25 and 53 of the RAO respectively.
251. Continuing the analogy with collective  investment schemes,  it is also worth noting that 
pursuant to Article 52 (b) of the RAO , establishing, operating or winding up a personal 
pension scheme is a specified activity for the purposes of FSMA and is therefore  a regulated 
activity. This mirrors the provisions of Article 51ZE of the RAO  which provides that 
establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme  is a specified activity. 
This analogy,  as well as those described  at [246] and [249] above lead us to conclude that 
Parliament intended the regulatory regime  to be applied to specified  activities relating to 
SIPPs to apply in the same  way as it does to activities in relation to specified  activities 
relating to collective investment schemes.
252. Turning  now to how the regulated activities  of dealing, arranging  and advising  can apply 
to rights in a SIPP, as the Authority states in PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 17), 
among other things a member will be dealing  in rights  in the scheme when  he acquires them  
by joining the scheme, makes payments into the scheme or contributes assets to the scheme 
and the operator of the scheme will be dealing in investments when he grants rights to the 
member under the scheme. When an IFA on its customer's behalf  assists the customer with 
establishing the scheme with a SIPP  provider  the IFA is likely to be arranging deals  in 
investments.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the alleged  activities complained about fall within  our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions  in carrying  on regulated activities of advising on and 
arranging pensions and investments.
Mr A says he dealt with both Mr H and Mr G and that he believed both were representing Future 
Financial. The Financial  Services Register shows Mr G held a regulated  role with Future Financial, it 
also shows Mr H didnt.  But this didnt mean he didnt work for Future Financial in some capacity and I 
think theres clear evidence that he did. In particular, I note he appears to have  submitted the SIPP 
application to Lifetime using a Future Financial compliment slip and gave an email address  that 
appears to belong to that firm.
Whatever Mr Hs precise status  was, I think  the evidence is clear  Future Financial was at least  
responsible for arranging the SIPP  and pension  switch.  This is certainly what Hartley thought  as 
evidenced by its email  of 25 July 2017. This view was presumably based on the information  contained  
in SIPP application, which  recorded Future Financial as Mr As adviser, and the fact it was submitted 
with a compliment slip from that firm. 
I think  the evidence also supports Mr As recollection that he dealt  with Mr G at Future Financial. In 
particular, I note the compliment slip mentioned above also invited Lifetime to contact somebody else 
(presumably also at Future Financial) with Mr Gs first name. Also,  Lifetimes  email of 10 January  
2012 was copied to somebody with Mr Gs first name at an aspirefinancial email address. I think its 
likely this was Mr G given the Financial Services Register  shows he was also linked to a firm called 
Aspire Independent Financial Services.
Incidentally, I note Best Practice has previously  expressed the view that Mr H impersonated  Mr G 
without his knowledge to arrange this type of transaction. But it hasnt provided comment  from Mr G 
on this point  or other evidence to support its view and I think the compliment  slip and email of 10 
January 2012 show he did know what was going on.
Ref: DRN767379012So, Im satisfied Mr G of Future Financial was involved in arranging Mr As SIPP.  In my view,  its also 
more likely  than not that he advised him as Mr A himself recalls. The regulated activity  of advising on 
investments is defined  in article 53 of the RAO as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is 
a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
In terms of the first part of the definition, Im satisfied  Mr A was an investor  or potential investor. 
Turning to the second  part, I find it highly unlikely he would have switched his pension benefits to a 
SIPP to fund this type of investment without advice on the merits of what he was doing. Or that Mr G 
would have arranged  this for him without advising  on the merits of that course of action. The 
investments were esoteric, high-risk, unregulated  products and Ive seen nothing  to suggest  he was a 
particularly experienced or knowledgeable  investor  who would have opted  to switch his pension  
benefits to fund them  without  advice. 
The activities  of advising  on and arranging pensions and investments are both regulated activities that 
fall within our jurisdiction as set out in DISP 2.3.1.
step 3  is the principal  firm responsible for these regulated activities by reason of section 39 of 
FSMA, agency  or vicarious liability?
As Ive explained, I think the evidence  is clear  that Mr G (acting  for Future Financial) was involved in 
arranging Mr As SIPP. And I think its also more  likely than not that he also advised him on this. Both 
were regulated activities and I need  to decide whether  Best Practice, as Future Financials principal, 
is responsible for those acts as if they were its own.
DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of ARs, at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
Ref: DRN767379013he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility. (my emphasis)
So, under section  39, the principal is required  to accept responsibly for that business , which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However, the case  of Anderson  v Sense 
Network (2018) and subsequent  appeal judgement make it clear the words  part of in section 39 
allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the generic business  of a prescribed 
description. In other words,  Best Practice was entitled to appoint Future Financial  as a representative  
and limit the scope of the regulated  activities it could carry out and that it would be responsible  for. 
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility.  In other words, a principal cant  avoid responsibility  for activities it 
authorised an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the way it wanted 
them to be. 
In terms of this complaint  against Best Practice, the above means  I can consider it if the acts being 
complained about include business for which it accepted responsibility.
The AR agreement set out the terms of the arrangement between Future Financial and Best Practice. 
Section 2 says:
APPOINTMENT
2.1 The Principal  warrants for the purposes of the Act, it is an Authorised Person and as such 
appoints the Appointed Representative to be an Appointed  Representative  of the Principal in 
accordance with the purposes  set out in clause 6.1 of this Agreement  (but for no other 
purpose).
In this section, Best Practice is the principal, Future Financial is the appointed representative, the Act 
refers to FSMA, and the term appointed representative is defined as:
a person, firm or company  who is for the purposes of the FSA Rules, a person authorised to 
be a representative of the Principal and/or financial adviser for the purposes of section 39 of 
Part Three  of the Act. 
The remaining relevant sections of the agreement say:
THE APPOINTED  REPRESENTATIVE'S OBLIGATIONS
6.1 The Appointed  Representative  shall on behalf of the Principal undertake such  of the 
following activities as the Principal may require and for which the Principal accepts 
responsibility PROVIDED ALWAYS  the Business  is notified to the Principal within 30 days  of 
the date of sale and falls within  the categories for which the Principal has authorisation under  
the FSA Rules and the act as notified to the Appointed Representative by the Principal  from 
time to time, namely:-
6.1.1 seek Clients for investment business on behalf of the Principal, advise Clients  
about entering  into investment agreements on behalf  of the Principal,  sell 
investments other than real property investments and time shares, exercise rights 
conferred by an investment (whether  issued by the Principal or connected persons  or 
not).
Ref: DRN7673790146.1.2 seek Clients and undertake to advise Clients on all such other aspects  of non 
investment business, private health cover  and medical benefits, mortgage advice, 
insurance, pension, trusts, tax advice, financial planning, term assurance,  long term 
care plans or any other business as the Principal may from time to time require  or 
permit, but at all times in accordance with any restrictions or prohibitions as the third 
party product provider and/or Principal  shall impose, and as the Principal shall deem  
fit (and the Appointed Representative agrees to accept such restrictions and 
prohibitions).
. . . .
6.3 The Appointed  Representative  shall act and conduct itself and ensure all Financial 
Advisers engaged or employed by it shall act and conduct  themselves generally so as to 
comply fully with the requirements of all statutes  including  but not limited to any requirements 
of the Act and the Money Laundering Regulations, and shall at all times satisfy the obligations  
to retain their status as approved persons  for the purposes of the Act. Further the Appointed 
Representative agrees  to comply with such of the FSA Rules as are relevant to its activities 
and those of its Financial  Advisers.
6.4 The Appointed  Representative  shall devote such of its time, attention and abilities to the 
Principal's Business as may be necessary for the proper  exercise of its obligations  and in 
particular in carrying  out its responsibilities pursuant to the Agreement it MUST NOT;
6.4,1 undertake any services for the Principal  not listed in clause 6.1 of this 
Agreement and then only on behalf of the Principal  and then only as its Appointed 
Representative on the terms of clause 6 in all its subsections;
6.4.1 undertake Business other than on the terms of the product  provider and/or 
Principal (and if there is a conflict, report that conflict to the Principal);
6.4.2 undertake investment Business falling outside  categories  the authorisation of 
the Principal under  FSA Rules and the Act as notified to the Appointed 
Representative by the Principal  from time to time.
. . . .
6.6 The Appointed  Representative  shall ensure that all its Financial  Advisers who carry  out 
the Business shall be allocated an individual competence  plan which  complies with the 
training and development schemes of the Principal and accords with all legal and regulatory 
requirements of the business in which  the Financial  Adviser  is active.
. . . .
6.17 The Appointed Representative is not employed  by the Principal  but hereby  undertakes 
to run its Business in accordance with the reasonable principles laid down by the Principal 
from time to time. In particular:-
(a) to comply with such  principles arising  after the Commencement Date, and
(b) the Appointed Representative shall be obliged to comply and adhere to the 
Compliance Manual, Procedures Manual, BPIFA Updates and the rules in force  from 
tune to time affecting such Compliance Manual and Procedures  Manual.
Its the AR agreement that determines  the basis of the business Best Practice was accepting  
responsibility for. To use the terminology in the Anderson v Sense case, this represents the starting 
point for determining what business Best Practice accepted responsibility  for. My interpretation  of this 
Ref: DRN767379015document is that Future Financial, as an AR of Best Practice, was essentially  permitted to carry out 
the activities  Best Practice was itself authorised for. According to the Financial Services Register,  
Best Practice  was authorised to deal with investments and pensions,  including pension transfers. 
The only restriction  I can see to this permission  is that Future  Financial was expressly not permitted to 
deal in real property investments and time shares. Im not currently aware the unregulated 
investments used by Mr A within his SIPP  fell into either of these  categories but if Best Practice thinks  
otherwise, it should confirm  that and provide evidence in response  to this provisional  decision. But 
even if it were established that any of the investments fell into these  categories, I dont think that 
would necessarily affect the outcome of his complaint given the investments were made via the SIPP.
I note Mr G wasnt personally authorised by Best Practice to give investment advice. But someone  
else at Future Financial was. The AR agreement was between  Future Financial  and Best Practice. 
The manner in which the business set out in that agreement was conducted (the how) was a matter  
between those  two parties. The fact the activity being complained about here might not have been 
conducted in the manner Best Practice had envisaged   because it was done by Mr G rather than Mr 
J -  isnt sufficient for Best Practice to avoid responsibility  in my view.
In my view,  the other requirements Best Practices representative has referred to also relate to how 
the business it accepted responsibility for was carried  rather than what business it accepted 
responsibility for.
The judge in the Anderson v Sense case considered the terms  of the AR agreement carefully,  as Ive 
done here, and concluded the requirement for the AR to put business through  a company agency was 
an effective  restriction on what business the principal accepted responsibility  for rather on how that 
was done. Best Practice didnt  include  the same restriction in its agreement with Future Financial. But 
its representative instead  seems to be arguing  this agreement, when considered in the context of the 
compliance manual, included  other restrictions that are comparable and equally effective in limiting 
liability.
My interpretation of clause 6.1 of the agreement is that Best Practice  accepted responsibility for 
business that falls within the categories for which  it was authorised by the regulator, provided  Best 
Practice was notified about that business within 30 days. In my view, this requirement isnt 
comparable to the restrictions  in the Anderson v Sense case. 
In itself, this clause didnt explicitly restrict the choice of product providers available to Future 
Financial in the same way. Further, a general  requirement for notification  after business was written  
couldnt realistically be used  to restrict its activities in that way anyway because  it didnt give the AR 
certainty at the point  of sale in the same way that a list of approved product providers would have.  
As outlined  in section 6.17, I appreciate the agreement also required Future Financial  to follow  Best 
Practices compliance manual and I can confirm Ive considered it in that context. Best Practices 
representative has previously explained  the compliance  manual would  have required Future Financial 
to obtain pre-approval for any advice  given to Mr A because  it involved transferring  his pension and 
making unregulated investments.
Before going any further, I have to say Best Practices cause isnt helped because it hasnt  been able 
to provide the relevant  sections of the compliance manual from the time. It has provided versions from 
several years later but its very difficult to conclude  effective restrictions on the business  it accepted 
responsibility for were  in place at the time without sight of the relevant documentation, even if I were  
satisfied restrictions in this format would have the effect of limiting liability. 
I think  its also worth  noting that the section of the compliance manual provided covering unregulated 
collectives (UCIS) sets out the process for non-retail clients, which  I dont think  is a description that 
would have applied  to Mr A. In terms of retail clients, the introductory section seems to suggest  the 
position was that the use of UCIS wasnt allowed  without permission from the compliance director.
Ref: DRN767379016But even if I were  to base  my assessment  on the wording in the more  recent versions of the 
compliance manual provided, I still dont think the pre-approval process described  is comparable to 
the controls described in the Anderson v Sense case. Theres  nothing  that directly restricted  the 
product providers  available to ARs. Instead, it appears Best Practice  preferred  to consider each 
proposition on its own merits, including  for UCIS that could be permitted with approval from the 
compliance director. 
In the original  Anderson v Sense case, the judge said:
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered  [my 
emphasis], does not mean that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the 
relevant "business"  for which  responsibility is taken.
I think  the pre-approval  process  described  in the compliance manual falls into the category of certain 
other duties described above. In my view,  the judge was clear that the fact such duties may not have 
been completed isnt sufficient for a principal to avoid  responsibility for business it had otherwise 
accepted responsibility for. I think  this supports the conclusion Im reaching that the pre-approval 
process related to how business was conducted  rather than the nature of the business  Best Practice  
was accepting responsibility  for.
It remains my interpretation that the AR agreement, when considered in the context of the compliance 
manual, permitted Future Financial to advise  on investments  and pensions,  including UCIS. This is 
the business Best Practice accepted responsibility for (the what).  I dont think a clause requiring Best 
Practice to be notified of any business written within 30 days  is an effective restriction thats 
comparable with the requirement  to use a selection of pre-approved product providers identified in the 
Anderson v Sense case.
I appreciate Best Practice wanted to retain some control over the activities of Future Financial, 
although its difficult to say exactly what these were without documentation  from the time. But either 
way, I think  the measures  identified would more correctly  be described as restrictions on how the 
business it was accepting responsibility for was carried out. Such restrictions dont have the effect of 
limiting a principals  liability as established in the Anderson v Sense case. 
conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied the activities of advising on and/or making  arrangements involving Mr As existing 
pension, SIPP and unregulated investments were regulated activities.  I think theres  clear evidence 
Mr G (acting for Future Financial) was involved  in arranging Mr As SIPP and pension switch and I 
think its more  likely  than not that it also provided  advice on this. Further, I  believe these were  
activities Future Financial  was authorised for by Best Practice. The fact Future Financial  didnt carry  
out those activities in the way it may have wanted - because Mr G went beyond  what he was 
personally authorised to do and other administrative requirements that are said to have been included 
in the compliance manual werent  adhered to - isnt sufficient  for Best Practice  to avoid responsibility.
On balance, and taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr As complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction and is one we can consider.
My Provisional Findings  - Merits
Mr As complaint was prompted by the failure  of the unregulated investments in his SIPP, which he 
doesnt think  were suitable  for his circumstances and needs. But switching his pension benefits to the 
SIPP was a necessary precursor to being able to incorporate the unregulated investments into his 
Ref: DRN767379017pension planning.  So, I think its clear  that any advice on the pension and the investments  was closely  
linked.
What was Mr Hs role and who was he representing?
From the evidence  Ive seen, including  that in Mr and Mrs Rs case, it appears that any advice on Mr 
As investments within  the SIPP  was most likely given by Mr H rather than Mr G. It also seems clear 
that Mr H was involved  in promoting and arranging the investments, as evidenced  in this case by the 
series of emails  in February 2012 in which he enclosed  details of various investment applications.
Mr Hs status is not entirely clear. According to the Financial Services Register,  he was never  
authorised through  and didnt  hold a regulated role with Future  Financial  or any other AR of Best 
Practice. But it does seem  that he worked for Future Financial  in some capacity that wasnt regulated 
as Ive explained  above. That said, Im also conscious he appears to have worked  for other 
businesses and his emails  in relation to the investments were sent from a personal  address, not a 
Future Financial  address.  
Best Practice  is adamant that Mr H wasnt  representing Future Financial and, on balance, I think that 
was probably  the case when he was carrying  out the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
Mr As investments, and the ancillary activity of promoting them. I think  he was instead acting  
essentially as an unlicensed  introducer.  On that basis, Best Practice  couldnt be held responsible for 
his actions.
What role did Future Financial and Mr G play?
As Ive explained above, I think the evidence is clear that Future Financial was involved in arranging 
the SIPP  and pension switch  and that Mr G knew what was going  on, which  supports Mr As 
recollection that he dealt with him. As Ive also explained above,  I think  its unlikely Mr A would have 
switched his pension benefits to a SIPP  to fund unregulated investments without advice from Mr G on 
the merits of this.
For the reasons  Ive already  set out, I think its likely Mr H essentially acted  as an unlicensed  
introducer when carrying out activities related  to Mr As investments. But that created a problem as 
the investments  being used could only be established if he switched his pension benefits to a SIPP.  
The correspondence between  Lifetime and Mr H in Mr and Mrs Rs dispute appears to show it would  
only accept applications  from a regulated  firm. That meant it was necessary for a regulated  firm to 
advise on and arrange  the SIPP and pension switch. I think thats where Mr G and Future Financial 
became involved.
Was Mr G and Future Financial responsible  for ensuring the investments within Mr As SIPP  were 
suitable?
The background  Ive described  is one where Mr H gave advice on and arranged  Mr As investments 
and Mr Gs involvement in the process (acting for Future Financial) was limited to advising on and 
arranging the SIPP and pension  switch. But even if his involvement was limited to Mr As pension  
arrangements, that doesnt  mean  he wasnt  also responsible  for ensuring his investments were 
suitable.
In January 2013, the regulator (at that time, the Financial Services Authority  (FSA)) issued an Alert 
on pension transfers with a view to investing into unregulated products through SIPPs. Although  the 
alert was issued after the actions in this case  took place,  it commented on how the rules should have  
been complied with at the time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
Ref: DRN767379018advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g. an overseas 
property development). When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on 
the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists 
the customer  to unlock monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements) 
so that the customer  is able to invest in the unregulated investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
Ref: DRN767379019I think  the guidance  is clear  that Mr G shouldnt have been advising on and making arrangements  to 
switch Mr As pension benefits to the SIPP  without first considering the type of investments hed go on 
to use and whether these  were suitable for him. I think the compliment slip that accompanied the 
SIPP application and email dated 10 January 2012  show Mr G was in contact with Mr H and knew 
what was going on. And if he really  didnt  know what type of investments were planned for Mr As 
SIPP, Im satisfied he could have found that out if hed asked the right questions  of the right people. 
Taking everything into account, I think its clear that I now need to consider whether  Mr As 
investments were suitable  for his needs. And if not, whether its appropriate to require Best Practice to 
put things right.
Were the investments suitable for Mr A?
For him to conclude  the advice to switch his pension  benefits  to the SIPP was suitable for Mr A, 
knowing the type of investments that would  then be used,  Mr G needed to be broadly satisfied that:
the type of investment planned met his investment objectives and attitude to risk;
this type of investment fitted his financial  position and he could reasonably afford  to take the 
risks involved; and
he understood and was prepared to accept those risks.
In considering these issues now, its important that I dont base my decision on hindsight.  Mr G 
wouldnt have known at the time that the investments would perform as they did and their nature 
doesnt mean  they were  automatically destined to fail.
Mr A used a selection of different investments  within  his SIPP,  all of which had different features and 
associated risks. But its important to recognise they werent mainstream investments. They  were  
specialised investments  that posed a complex  series of risks. They mostly invested in a single type of 
asset, which  increased  the chances of future liquidity  problems and/or the failure of the investment. 
They were also mostly based  overseas,  meaning  they were subject to laws in other countries  and 
potential currency fluctuations. Further, they were unregulated, meaning Mr A couldnt fall back on the 
protection offered  by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  if things went wrong.  All 
of this means the investments would reasonably be seen  as involving a high degree  of risk and thats 
why the regulator has consistently said they arent suitable for and shouldnt be marketed to most 
retail investors.
When considering whether  the investments were suitable for Mr A, Mr G should  have treated him as a 
normal retail client and Ive seen nothing to indicate a valid assessment was completed that meant he 
could reasonably have been treated in any other way. As Ive already said, theres  nothing  to indicate  
he was a knowledgeable,  experienced or sophisticated investor and theres nothing about his 
occupation or investment  experience to indicate  he would have been able to interpret any promotional 
documentation he received to decide whether the investments were suitable for him. And it wouldnt 
have been reasonable  for Mr G to have assumed  this was the case. It certainly  seems Mr A felt he 
required assistance otherwise he presumably wouldnt have needed  to deal with Mr H and Mr G in the 
first place. 
Based on the available information, including  that provided in Mr As recent submission, my 
understanding of his circumstances  at the time is as follows:
he was in his sixties  and married;
he was employed on various contracts in an occupation that wasnt related to financial 
services;
he also received around £500 per month from two pensions that were in payment;
he owned his own home valued at around £275,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
approximately £40,000;
he owned no other  properties or pensions benefits,  aside from those  already in payment and 
that were switched to the SIPP; and
Ref: DRN767379020he had savings of around £40,000 in bank/building society accounts and cash  ISAs.
In making his original  complaint, Mr As representative said he wanted advice to enhance  the returns 
on his pension before he retired but that his attitude to investment risk was low/cautious.
No evidence has been provided  to show Mr G or anyone else at Future Financial considered whether 
the proposed  investments  were suitable for Mr A, including whether they were  consistent with the 
risks he was willing to take. But based on his circumstances, I think the assertion that he was a low-
risk or cautious investor is probably about right. As Ive said, he appears to have been an 
inexperienced investor with few assets aside  from his home  and what he held in his pension  fund. He 
was also approaching retirement age, which  meant he had very little time to make  up for any losses to 
his pension fund held in the SIPP.
In his recent submission,  Mr A says he was told about some  general risks but also that the 
investments had a reliable  track  record and were  suitable for him. So while I think this shows Mr A 
may have been prepared to accept some risk to his capital in exchange for potentially higher returns, I 
certainly dont  think it demonstrates he was willing to take the high level of risk associated  with the 
selected investments.
In reaching this conclusion, Im aware Mr A made a further unregulated  investment in 2013. But Im 
also conscious  this appears to have been done following an unsolicited approach from Mr H and at a 
time when he had no reason  to think the advice  hed received previously  was unsuitable. So I dont 
think this in any way suggests Mr A understood what he was getting  into in 2012 or that he would in 
any way have  knowingly accepted the risks associated with the investments he made.
On balance, I think  the type of investments he was planning to use within the SIPP involved  a greater 
degree of risk than Mr A was prepared to accept and for this reason  they were unsuitable.  If Mr G had 
carried out a proper suitability  assessment as he should have, I believe  he would have reached the 
same conclusion. Before arranging Mr As SIPP or the switching  of his pension  benefits, he should  
therefore have explained  to Mr A that the type of investments hed been discussing with Mr H werent 
suitable. He should have explained the reasons for this view and offered  suitable alternative options.  
Its because he didnt do this that Im currently proposing to uphold Mr As complaint.
the consequences of this failing
Im satisfied the decision  to use unregulated  investments came from Mr As discussions with Mr H, but 
theres no suggestion he came  up with this idea.  As Mr H appears to have been operating as an 
unlicensed introducer promoting unregulated  investments, I think  its most likely  he suggested this 
option. 
Either way, Mr G was a qualified adviser and if hed explained  that the investments he was planning 
to use werent  suitable,  explained the reasons  for his view, and offered appropriate alternatives, I 
dont think its likely  Mr A would have proceeded. I dont  think the evidence shows he was particularly 
attached to the use of unregulated investments or that he would have gone ahead anyway if hed 
been advised  against it.
Im aware Mr G of Future Financial wasnt the only person involved in the events being  complained 
about. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I believe Mr A would now be in a different position if hed 
acted as he should have.  Ive already  explained  why I think Mr G was acting for Future  Financial (and 
as an AR of Best Practice)  when advising  on and making  arrangements involving the SIPP and that 
this was something Future Financial was permitted to do under the terms of the AR agreement. Im 
therefore satisfied its appropriate for me to require Best Practice to put things right.
conclusions
Im satisfied Mr G advised  Mr A on his pension  planning and arranged for his benefits  to be switched 
to the SIPP, that he was acting for Future Financial when  he did so, and that Best Practice is 
Ref: DRN767379021responsible for his actions.  When  giving  advice on Mr As pension arrangements, he also had a 
responsibility to consider  whether the investments he was planning  to use were  suitable. Because the 
investments were unsuitable  and Mr G didnt explain this or offer suitable  alternatives as he should 
have, I think Mr A is in a different position to that which he should be and that its appropriate for me 
to require  Best Practice to put things  right.
Putting Things Right
My aim is that Mr A should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if hed been given suitable advice. On the basis that he attended an investment seminar and was 
looking to improve the returns on his pension fund, I think its likely he would have done something 
else rather than carry on investing in the same funds with the same  provider. But with suitable  advice, 
I dont think he would have  used a selection of unregulated investments in a SIPP. Its not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives at the time.
In the case involving Mr and Mrs R, Best Practices  representative appeared to question  what  steps 
they took to mitigate their loss, but I dont think theres any failing on his part in this area that should  
affect any compensation Mr A is now due. He raised  a complaint with Best Practice  within the 
timeframe set out in our rules and, given  the nature of his investments and whats happened to them,  
its difficult to see what else he could reasonably  have been  expected to do to mitigate  his loss.
What should Best Practice do?
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Best Practice should compare  the performance of his SIPP generated by 
the amount transferred into it in 2012 with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair value is greater 
than the actual  value, theres a loss and compensation is payable. Best Practice  should also add 
interest as set out below. If the actual value  is greater  than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
If theres a loss, Best Practice should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the amount  
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Best Practice is unable to pay the compensation  into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr A's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr A would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest. If Best Practice deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. It should give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
Ref: DRN767379022average rate from 
fixed rate bondswithin 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Actual value
This is the actual value  of the SIPP generated by the money  he switched in it in 2012 at the end date.
 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the SIPP. This is complicated  where some  of the 
investments it contains are illiquid  (meaning  they cant be readily sold on the open market) as appears 
to be the case here. So, the actual value  of any illiquid investments should be assumed to be nil to 
calculate fair compensation. Best Practice should take ownership of illiquid investments by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance  paid as set out above.
If Best Practice is unable to purchase any of the investments, the actual value should  be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Best Practice may require Mr A to provide an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive  from those investments in the future. That undertaking must  allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan.  Best 
Practice will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the part of the SIPP generated by the money  switched into it in 2012 would have been 
worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the calculation from 
that point  on. If there are a large number  of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept  
if Best Practice totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth  with relatively low risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.  
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mr A's risk profile  was in between, in the sense  that he was prepared to take a 
low level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would  
reasonably put him into that position. It doesnt mean Mr A would have invested 50% of his 
money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return he could  have 
obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN767379023additional compensation
The SIPP only exists  because  of the unregulated  investments used.  In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further fees to be prevented, any illiquid investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set 
out above  how this might be achieved by Best Practice taking over the investments,  or this is 
something Mr A can discuss  with the SIPP  provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that Best Practice pay Mr A an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using  the previous years fees). This should  provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
I think  the problems Mr A has experienced  with his pension arrangements as a result of the actions of 
Mr G and Future Financial  have caused him considerable  unnecessary trouble and upset  over a 
prolonged period and that he should be compensated for that. The precise impact of this situation on 
Mr A, and therefore the amount to award, is difficult to assess.  But in the circumstances, I think  a 
substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. Best Practice would need  to pay this amount 
direct to Mr A (not into his pension) in addition  to any compensation calculated using the method 
outlined above.
compensation limits
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Best Practice pays  the 
balance.
Determination and award:  I plan to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation  should 
be calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Best Practice should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000  plus any interest on the balance  as set 
out above.
 
If Best Practice IFA Group Limited doesnt pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr A. This is until any future benefit  that he may receive from 
the investment  together with the compensation paid by Best Practice (excluding any interest)  equates 
to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Best Practice  may request an undertaking from Mr A that either he repays  to Best Practice  any 
amount he may receive from the investment thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment at that 
point. Mr A should be aware that any such amount  would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend Best Practice pays Mr A the balance plus any interest on the balance as set 
out above.  
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that we can consider  this complaint and I intend to uphold it. I currently 
think Best Practice IFA Group Limited should pay Mr A compensation  calculated using the method  set 
out above,  including  the additional compensation  covering  future SIPP fees and for his trouble and 
upset.
Ref: DRN7673790