K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, Halifax dont still have all the original documents from 
the sale. But from what weve seen  of the sales process Mr S wouldve gone through  at the 
time, he wouldve  been given a choice  about  buying  PPI, and in order  to get it he wouldve 
had to actively choose it. And the PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately from the cost 
of the mortgage  itself,  rather than as something  that was necessarily included. Further,  there  
doesnt seem to be any debate that Mr S chose the policy. So I think its most  likely that 
Halifax made Mr S aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr S or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr S Ive assumed they did. That 
means they had to check it was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr S wasnt  affected  by any of the 
policys key exclusions or limitations. He did have sick pay through work, but the PPI 
covered him for more  than twice as long, and it paid out on top. And Mr S doesnt seem to 
have had any other protection in case he lost his job. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr S 
fell behind on his mortgage payments he risked losing his home. So I think  the PPI couldve 
really been useful for Mr S in protecting his home  and giving some  peace  of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr S about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. So 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put Mr S off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN75534682my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7553468