K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the handling and workmanship by AXA Insurance  UK Plc and 
its agents on their claim for damage  to their home  under their home insurance policy.
background 
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs Gs home  suffered extensive damage when a pipe burst  while 
they were away. AXAs  loss adjusters provided a preliminary report the same  month,  but 
drying out took longer  than anticipated and wasnt certified as complete  until the summer of 
2018. Repairs started after that and Mr and Mrs G went into alternative accommodation.
Mr G visited his home in September 2018  and was concerned about the quality of the 
workmanship being carried out. Site meetings took place over the next three  months and Mr 
G set out his concerns about the workmanship and delays and complained to AXA. AXA 
apologised to Mr and Mrs G and paid them  £400 compensation.
AXA accepted that problems with work  to Mr and Mrs Gs home were due to its contractors 
and in March 2019 it paid Mr and Mrs G an interim sum of £50,000 to arrange  for the work  
themselves. Mr and Mrs G hired contractors who found other  issues  with the repairs. Mr and 
Mrs G remained  in alternative  accommodation and accepted a payment to extend  this in 
April 2019. AXA paid them further compensation of £800 for the problems they had suffered. 
In August  2019  Mr G said they were still liaising  with AXA and its agents  as extra payments
hadnt been reimbursed. And there were outstanding issues  with the repairs and for damage 
to their furniture when it was returned, but their home was now habitable. Mr G described the 
claim as a total nightmare and said they had no idea it would be so difficult. He said the 
stress and time spent  following  things up and managing the claim has taken its toll on them.
Our investigator said the claim  had dragged on much longer than it should have done, and 
Mr G had had to become  closely  involved.  She recommended AXA pay further 
compensation of £800 to Mr and Mrs G for their distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs G said £800 wasnt enough given the amount of time the claim had taken. They  
said they were still awaiting payment for their additional building and contents  claims. 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim  continued with some  further  delays and they requested  payment  for 
the outstanding repairs and utility  bills. Much  more recently Mr and Mrs G confirmed they 
had accepted a cash settlement for the remainder  of their claim though they said they felt 
they had little choice in order to get the work  completed more quickly.
AXA acknowledged that further  delays  had caused  upset for Mr and Mrs G and offered  a 
further payment  to bring the total compensation to £2,400. Mr and Mrs G said this was totally  
inadequate for their awful experience and said the compensation should be £10,000.
Our investigator reconsidered Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  She remained of the view that the 
claim had taken much longer to complete that it should have  done.  But she thought  that 
AXAs offer to pay compensation totalling £2,400  was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G requested  an ombudsman review their complaint. They said it was only 
because they had no confidence  that AXAs contractors would complete the work on time 
Ref: DRN78305342they accepted a cash settlement for their claim. They said the whole claim period should be 
considered and they would consider alternative  means of securing fair compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at the handling of the claim by AXA and its agents from the start to see how Mr 
and Mrs G have been treated  and to decide what  level of compensation would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. I hope Mr and Mrs G do not consider  it a discourtesy if I 
dont recount the events and communications between the parties in detail.
Complex and detailed escape  of water claims involve a number of parties and take many 
months to resolve. It follows  that they are inherently  stressful to the policyholders.  My role is 
to determine whether  and to what extent avoidable delays and stress have been caused  and 
what the correct compensation should be for this. I do this by taking an overview  of the claim 
and the impact this has had upon the policyholders.
It is not in dispute  that AXA handled  Mr and Mrs Gs claim very poorly  indeed  and allowed 
many delays and uncertainties to occur. I can see that Mr G became increasingly involved 
with the work to make sure their home  was put back to the condition it was in before it was 
damaged. From nearly  the start of the claim Mr G continually requested an update of the 
situation, particularly  after the drying equipment  had been removed and before the repairs  
had started. Mr G has exchanged a huge  amount  of emails with the parties  involved in the 
claim, and often had to wait to obtain information.  He had to deal with changes  of personnel 
at the loss adjusters and with the works  carried  out by AXAs previous contractor and 
whether these were  covered by the interim cash settlement. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs G have accepted  a cash  settlement  for the remaining work after 
much frustration with AXAs contractors, and AXAs involvement in the claim has ended. I 
can understand Mr and Mrs Gs reluctance to go through a second Christmas with the works 
potentially outstanding with all the inconvenience and distress that could follow. And so, they 
accepted a cash settlement to avoid being let down again. In respect of their complaints 
about the handling of their claim, AXA has offered  £2,400  compensation for the impact  of its 
poor service upon Mr and Mrs G during the full period of the claim. 
From what  I have  seen, AXA failed to provide proper oversight of the various parties  
involved and failed  to properly manage  Mr and Mrs Gs claim.  Its clear that this caused Mr 
and Mrs G delays and uncertainty,  and this was exacerbated  by AXAs  poor and at times 
non-existent communication. There were many  heads of expenditure and inspections 
involved in the claim,  but AXA failed to manage these as it should  have in order to overcome 
difficulties and ensure  that progress was maintained.
Although there were  outstanding  issues causing  Mr and Mrs G inconvenience they were 
able to return home in the summer of 2019.  I appreciate their unwilling involvement  in the 
claim, and Ive taken  into account all the issues that have occurred throughout this episode.  
Our role is not to punish  businesses that have let policyholders down but to make awards of 
compensation that reflect the distress and inconvenience  they have suffered. Overall,  I am of 
the view that the compensation  totalling  £2,400 offered to Mr and Mrs G by AXA is fair in the 
Ref: DRN78305343circumstances of their claim experience. It is also consistent with other awards our service 
has made in similar circumstances.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs G for their dreadful  claims experience. They  have previously 
rejected this offer of compensation  and I would advise them that by rejecting this decision 
other options remain open to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs G compensation totalling  £2,400  (or the 
amount of this sum that has not already been  paid) for the distress and inconvenience they 
have suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 February  2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7830534