K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that AWP P&C SA mis-sold  a motor warranty policy  to him. 
background
Mr D bought a motor warranty policy in 2016  through AWP P&C SA. AWP didnt provide 
Mr D with any advice as to the suitability of the policy   but it did give him information and 
discuss the policy with him before he bought it. 
In 2018 Mr D complained  that the policy had been mis-sold to him. AWP P&C SA didnt 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  But as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded  the 2018 premium  hed 
paid for the policy. 
Mr D remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator listened to 
the recordings of the calls Mr D had with AWP before he bought the policy. He was satisfied 
that AWP hadnt done anything wrong.  
Mr D didnt agree. Hes listened to the call recordings too. He says he was only given one 
chance to talk to AWP before he decided to buy the policy.  He says he felt railroaded into 
buying the policy. 
Mr D wants an ombudsman to look at his case.  He believes a claim he made  should  have 
been met. Hes also mentioned other  claims which he says were rejected. Mr D believes the 
warranty policy was no better than a standard second hand car warranty. He believes AWP 
is relying on the small print to get out of paying  the claims  hes made. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
AWP didnt provide Mr D with any advice before buying the warranty policy. From the call 
recordings provided, I think its clear  that Mr D had access to the terms and conditions of the 
policy including what was and wasnt  covered before he decided to buy the policy.  He asked 
AWP a series of questions about  the type of cover that was available. Theres  nothing in the 
call recordings  to suggest that AWP mis-sold this policy to Mr D. 
Mr D decided to buy the warranty policy. In the terms and conditions it clearly sets out that 
the basis of the sale was on a non-advised basis. And AWP explained that Mr D had 
14 days to change his mind if he wanted  to cancel the policy. 
In 2018 AWP didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. But as a gesture of goodwill it refunded the 
yearly premium he paid for the policy, which hed renewed in March 2018. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think AWP mis-sold  a policy to Mr D. And I think  it acted 
reasonably in providing Mr D with a premium refund. It didnt have to do this. So Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
Ref: DRN77552252Mr D asked us to look at the sale of the policy. If Mr D is unhappy  with the way a claim has 
been dealt with, he will need to raise a separate complaint to the underwriter of his policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7755225