K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Scottish Widows  Limited insisted she submit  her application for a 
drawdown plan via a financial adviser.  
background
Mrs L held a drawdown plan with another  provider, from here on referred to as Firm H. This 
plan was due to be transferred to an annuity with Scottish Widows on Mrs Ls 75th birthday, 
in February 2018,  if she didnt make an alternative arrangement  for the plan before this date. 
In January 2018 Mrs L sought advice from a financial adviser and as a result,  decided  to 
transfer her drawdown  plan with Firm H to a drawdown plan with Scottish Widows. Mrs L 
started the transfer  process in early February  2018.  But it failed to complete before her 
birthday, despite  being told that everything was progressing by Firm H. 
In late February 2018 Scottish Widows advised Mrs L that she didnt qualify for a drawdown 
plan due to the her fund being  below the minimum £50,000 requirement. 
Mrs L complained to Scottish  Widows. Scottish  Widows responded and explained that the 
minimum fund requirement didnt apply to Mrs L. But it said it would only accept the transfer 
to one of its drawdown  plans if the application  was submitted by a financial  adviser. This was 
because it had made a business decision to only accept drawdown  to drawdown transfers 
from financial advisers. Scottish Widows also said that it had made a mistake  by not initially 
informing Mrs L of this, so it offered her £200  for the inconvenience this matter  had caused.
Mrs L remained unhappy. She said that there was nothing in Scottish  Widows literature or 
terms and conditions that said this it was necessary to get advice. And she had already  
taken advice prior to submitting the transfer forms. So she felt it was unfair  to have to pay for 
the same  forms to be submitted by a financial  adviser.  
In order to progress  matters, Mrs L reluctantly sought advice from a financial adviser in 
June 2018. As a result, she decided  not to go ahead  with the Scottish Widows drawdown 
plan and instead decided to transfer  her plan for another provider  Firm R.
Mrs L subsequently referred her complaint  to this service for an independent review.  She 
said that she thought Scottish Widows should  compensate her for the worry it had caused. In 
addition shed not received her pension for the months  of March to July 2018 so she felt that 
it should cover these payments. And she wanted Scottish Widows to cover  the cost of her 
financial adviser. 
One of our investigators  review matters but didnt think Scottish Widows needed to do any 
more than it had already  offered. In summary the investigator thought  that Scottish Widows 
had offered to place  Mrs L back in to the position  she wouldve been in had the error not 
occurred. She didnt think it was unreasonable for Scottish Widows to ask for the transfer  to 
be requested by a financial adviser.  And she also thought the £200 it had offered for the 
inconvenience was fair.  The investigator  didnt think it would be reasonable for 
Scottish Widows  to cover Mrs Ls pension payments for March  to July. Nor did she think  it 
needed to reimburse  the financial adviser  fees. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators  opinion  on this matter. She said that 
Scottish Widows  is responsible for consequential losses  flowing from its negligent acts.  As it 
Ref: DRN72331992was impossible to know  how and at what cost it would take to resolve  the issues, she was 
entitled to refuse its offer of £200.
The case  has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Scottish Widows  needs to do any more than its already offered. Ill explain why. 
Id firstly  like to explain that its at Scottish  Widows discretion whether it insists on advice 
being taken before it allows customers to take out its products. In Mrs Ls case,  its explained 
that it made  a business decision that it will only accept applications for its drawdown plan - 
when the funds are coming from another drawdown plan - via a financial adviser.  This isnt 
unreasonable as it wants  to ensure  that customers understand the risks involved. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that it hasnt applied this policy  to all customers  in the 
same position as Mrs L. So I dont think its treated Mrs L unfairly in terms of the requirement 
for her get financial advice.  However, it failed to inform  her upfront that this was a 
requirement. This isnt in dispute but it doesnt  necessary follow that Scottish  Widows  needs 
to cover all the costs that Mrs L believes stem  from this error. 
financial adviser fee
Mrs L believes that Scottish Widows should cover  her financial adviser  fees. But I wont be 
asking it do this. 
I appreciate that it wasnt until sometime into the process that Mrs L was told of the need for 
the application to be submitted by a financial  adviser. But even  if shed been  told up front,  
she would  still have  had to bear the cost of financial  advice. Mrs L has confirmed that she 
wasnt charged for the first meeting she had with her adviser  in January 2018. As such, 
shes not been put to an additional expense as a result of Scottish  Widows  failure  to notify  
her upfront  of this requirement.   So Im not asking Scottish Widows to refund the adviser 
fees. 
missing payments and compensation
Mrs L had been  drawing monthly  payments  from her plan with Firm H. She received the last 
of these in February  2018, just prior to her 75th birthday. It had been her intention  to move to 
the new drawdown plan with Scottish  Widows for her monthly repayments to continue. 
However, it wasnt until Mrs L moved  her funds  to a drawdown plan with Firm R in 
August 2018 that she received the next payment. So she believes that Scottish Widows 
should compensate  her for the missing payments between March and July 2018.  
I think its important to note that while Mrs L wasnt able to draw monthly payments for a 
number of months, she hasnt lost this money. After  Firm H made  the last payment in 
February 2018, Mrs L had just over £35,000  remaining  in her plan. And exactly the same 
amount was transferred to her plan with Firm R. 
However, I do accept that Mrs L was without the use of these funds  for this period. So Ive 
thought about whether Scottish  Widows  should provide compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN72331993Its already been  acknowledged that Scottish Widows made a mistake  in that it initially said 
that Mrs L couldnt move into a drawdown  plan and then it said she could only do so 
following advice. However,  from the information  on file, it seems Mrs L was notified of this at 
the end of February 2018 when she spoke to Scottish Widows.  This was also confirmed in 
writing in Scottish Widows complaint response letter that was issued  on 13 March  2018. 
This letter also explained that as it had delayed matters, Scottish  Widows  would grant  a 
concession and allow Mrs L to transfer into the drawdown plan despite  having passed the 
age of 75. The letter also included an offer of £200  compensation.
Mrs L chose to reject this offer and she disputed the requirement for the application to be 
submitted by a financial adviser. Scottish  Widows  issued a further  letter in April 2018  
reiterating what it had set out in its previous letter.  
Mrs L chose not to seek financial advice until June 2018 after which  she made  the decision 
to move her funds to Firm R instead of Scottish Widows.
Having looked  at the timeline, although there was an initial mix up and Mrs L was given 
incorrect information, this was rectified by the end of February  2018,  and confirmed in writing 
by March. So had Mrs L chosen to go ahead  at that point, I think  its likely that she would  
have been in a position to start drawing from her plan sometime in March 2018. For this 
reason, I dont think it would be fair to ask Scottish  Widows to pay compensation for Mrs L 
being deprived of funds  between March and July 2018.
I acknowledge that this matter caused  Mrs L distress because she was concerned her funds 
would be annuitised  after shed passed her 75th birthday. However having considered 
everything thats happened, I think Scottish  Widows  offer is fair. I appreciate  that it made 
errors at the start of the process.  But it was only a matter of weeks  before Mrs L was 
informed of the correct  position and that Scottish Widows would still allow the drawdown  
plan to be set up, despite  the delays meaning that shed  passed her 75th birthday.  So in the 
circumstances, I think  the compensation already offered by Scottish  Widows is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited  should, as it has offered, and to the extent 
this hasnt already  been paid, make a payment  of £200 for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs L. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7233199