K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  the PPI. I 
understand the PPI is still running.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago so it isnt unusual or surprising  that there is 
limited paperwork available from the time. But it does mean its difficult  for me to know how 
the PPI was presented to Mr and Mr E or whether Bank of Scotland gave them a choice or 
not. But businesses  arent required to keep  information indefinitely and so it would be unfair 
to say that Bank of Scotland wouldnt have given Mr and Mrs E a choice, just because it 
doesnt have the paperwork. Where we have very limited information  or evidence  I have  to 
make my decision  based on the balance of probabilities. 
Mr and Mrs E say they were under the impression that they were simply applying  for the 
mortgage and nothing else. They have said the PPI was added  without their knowledge and 
consent. I can see from Mr and Mrs Es original application theres a section for PPI but its 
not been completed  which means PPI wasnt sold to them  at this point. Its likely that the 
sale took place  between them submitting this application and their mortgage going live. 
Bank of Scotland says it was during  a meeting  in branch. From what I know  about the way 
Bank of Scotland sold PPI with mortgages around the time Mr and Mrs Es policy was sold I 
think its likely they would  have had to complete a separate application form for the policy to 
have been added to their account. And because the policy was set up to cover  Mr E only this 
suggests to me that its likely there  was some  discussion about the PPI with them  at the 
time. The fact they chose  not to take PPI on their application  form indicates that they knew  it 
was an optional product. And there  is a copy of a letter to Mr and Mrs E dated 26 February 
1999 which confirms  PPI was discussed at a meeting that day, including  its cost. 
So on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs E were  aware  they were taking PPI at the 
time  knowing they didnt  have to  although  I can understand why they cant remember this 
now.
Bank of Scotland say they recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. 
The PPI covered Mr E only in the event he couldnt work due to accident, sickness or if he 
was made  redundant. From looking at their mortgage application I think  its likely that Bank 
of Scotland recommended  this as Mr E was earning  over 85% of the household income at 
the time and so Mr and Mrs E would have mainly  been relying on his income to make the 
mortgage repayments. And the terms of the policy say that the benefit  could only be split 
Ref: DRN7690077250/50, so its unlikely that this wouldve provided suitable cover  as a joint policy.  From what 
Ive been told about Mr Es circumstances it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
While Mr E says he had generous sick pay, the PPI would have paid out on top anything he 
received from his employer and for potentially longer than he would have received his full 
rate of pay. It would  also have meant  that any redundancy  pay he received could have been 
used for other essential living expenses at what couldve been a difficult time financially. 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage was a major financial commitment and their home would have 
been at risk if the mortgage payments were not kept up to date. So I think the cover would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And as above,  I think it was right for them. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs E about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs E, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr and Mrs E any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank of Scotland  should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs E any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back to Mr and Mrs E the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bank of Scotland should also pay Mr and Mrs E 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs E can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs E any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN76900773Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7690077