K820x#14complaint
Mrs T, who is represented by her husband Mr T, complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading 
as Halifax evicted her from her property even  though her mortgage account  was in credit. 
Although it later returned the property to her, she says it has charged excessive fees and 
has been difficult to deal with. And it didnt take good  care of the property or her animals 
while it was in Halifaxs possession, and items  were  removed  or stolen from the property.
background
Mr T has dealt with this complaint on Mrs Ts behalf. And he has dealt  with the mortgage as 
well. There has been a history of arrears for several  years. Halifax said it had concerns that 
Mrs T didnt  actually know anything about  the mortgage or the arrears,  even though  she was 
responsible for them. 
Mr T accepted the mortgage was in arrears.  When they received an eviction notice, he got in 
touch with Halifax by phone. Halifax wouldnt speak to him, so he asked a third party to 
speak to Halifax pretending to be Mrs T. On the morning of the eviction he paid the 
outstanding arrears with a debit card, then asked Halifax to suspend  the eviction  it said it 
couldnt without  cleared  funds, and said he or Mrs T would  need to visit a branch. Mr T says 
he visited a branch and paid cash at about  11.30am, but the eviction still went ahead at 
12.00. 
A week later Halifax returned the property. As, by then, the debit  card payment had also 
cleared, and so the arrears had been  paid off twice,  Mr T asked  for the payment to be 
returned. But Halifax refused. Around  £5,000  of the £8,000 that had been paid was used up 
in fees for the repossession, and it used the rest to reduce the mortgage  balance. Mr T also 
set that various  items had been removed from the property  including  expensive  items such 
as tools and a quad bike  and the property had been left in a dirty condition.
Mr T said that the repossession has had a substantial impact  on their family.  Mrs T has 
existing health  problems, which was why he was managing the mortgage. And following the 
repossession he was hospitalised  after a suicide attempt.
Halifax said the account had been in arrears almost  continually  since  around 2012,  and 
several previous  evictions  had been scheduled   only to be cancelled  at the last minute. The 
previous year, arrears of over £50,000  had been  cleared by lump sum payment, but no 
further payments  had been made since then and arrears had built up back to around £8,000. 
And Halifax had realised it had no contact  with Mrs T for some  time  and didnt know  if she 
was even aware of what was happening.
Halifax returned to court and got a further  court order  authorising  the repossession.  It said it 
spoke to Mr T the day before, and said it could no longer discuss  the account with him. He 
then passed the phone  to a woman  calling herself  Mrs T, who answered  its security 
questions. Its now accepted this wasnt Mrs T. Halifax  told this woman that it would only 
consider suspending the eviction if the account was brought  up to date.  And it wanted Mrs T 
to go into a branch  with her ID documents, and show she could afford  to make future 
monthly payments  herself. It wanted  to be sure she knew what was going on  and would 
take responsibility for the mortgage. It would only suspend the eviction if both these 
conditions were met.
Ref: DRN73817722Halifax said this didnt  happen. Mr T paid by debit  card over the phone on the morning of the 
eviction. But it needed cleared funds.  Mr T then went into a branch and paid by cash. But 
Mrs T wasnt present and it didnt discuss the future management  of the account with her. So 
it didnt agree to suspend  the eviction, which went ahead that afternoon.
Mrs T then spoke  to Halifax herself, by which time both Mr Ts payments had cleared. She 
was able to show  that she now knew what was going on with the account. And she showed 
that she could  afford  the monthly  payments herself. It says she agreed that the second 
payment could be retained  to reduce the balance as a condition of returning the property  
and so the property was handed back.
Mr and Mrs T complained. Mrs T asked for the second payment to be refunded. One 
complaints handler  agreed that could  happen, but then Halifax said it couldnt  as, it said, 
Mrs T had agreed at the time the property was returned. It offered £100 compensation for 
this mistake. But it didnt  agree to refund the payment  and said the fees charged on the 
repossession were reasonable. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. She thought  Halifax had acted 
fairly both in repossessing the property,  and in handing it back.  She thought the fees 
charged were reasonable. And she didnt think there  was any evidence of items having been 
removed or stolen from the property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to repossess the property. It had a court order  saying  
that it was entitled  to do so  and although  it could have chosen  not to enforce the order,  I 
think it acted reasonably in taking the steps  it did at that point in time.
Mrs Ts mortgage  account hadnt been  managed well for many  years.  Its been  a long time 
since any monthly payments had been made, and previous evictions have  only been 
avoided at the last minute  when large lump sum payments were made  but the account 
then fell straight back into arrears. By the time of the repossession itself, the same  pattern 
had been repeated  no payments had been made, and arears  had built back  up to £8,000.
So I can understand Halifaxs concern about the conduct of the account  and about  the fact 
that Mrs T appeared  to have no involvement in or knowledge of her mortgage.
Once a court  has ordered repossession, and made a money judgment, the mortgage comes 
to an end and the lender is entitled  to take and sell the property.  I dont agree with Mr T that 
it loses that right if he pays off the arrears. Its a matter for Halifaxs discretion  whether its 
prepared to allow the mortgage  to continue.  I think its fair that it only wanted to do that once 
it had spoken  to Mrs T  the real Mrs T  and was satisfied that she both knew  what  she had 
to do and was able to do it in future.  As that didnt happen before the eviction  date, it went 
ahead. I dont agree with Mr T that he was told that paying  the arrears  would  be enough on 
its own  I think its clear  Halifax always  wanted more reassurance  than that.
I understand of course that the repossession itself was a distressing experience for 
Mr and Mrs T and their family. But from the evidence Ive seen, I think that distress  was the 
result of the eviction itself,  and the inevitable  distress that follows from any eviction. 
Ref: DRN73817723The locks  were changed, and Mr and Mrs T were  refused access to the property except for a 
limited period under supervision to collect belongings. I accept that was upsetting.  But Ive 
not seen any evidence that this repossession  was handled particularly insensitively or in an 
inappropriate way. I think Mr and Mrs T were  understandably  upset by what would 
always have been  a difficult thing to experience. But Ive seen nothing  in how it was handled 
to suggest that the process was made  more  difficult  than it always would have been given 
that they were  being evicted from their home.
This was an unusual property. It comes  with some land, which was used to keep horses. 
There were also dogs  and other  pets at the property.  Unless  and until the animals were 
removed, they had to be fed, watched  and cared for. Like all Mr and Mrs Ts possessions, 
until removed, they were in the care of the eviction agent. Dealing with animals  is not a 
standard part of a repossession,  and required  specialist staff to stay at the property. Theres  
a cost to that  and, given that the mortgage  terms say Halifaxs  costs can be recovered 
from Mrs T, and the repossession was fair  I think its fair that Halifax  charged that cost to 
Mrs Ts mortgage  account. Given the timescale and what  was needed  to happen, I think  the 
invoices are reasonable.
Once it was able to speak  to Mrs T, Halifax agreed to return  the property to her. I think  it was 
agreed between  them at that point  that both payments could be retained on the account  
and I think this formed part of the reassurance that Halifax  needed  before it would return the 
property. I accept that this payment was made by Mr T. But he paid it into Mrs Ts mortgage 
account. And it was on the understanding that both payments would be retained that Halifax  
agreed to return the property to Mrs T  which was, after all, the home of both of them,  and 
their children. I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Halifax  to refund it  especially  as I can see 
from the mortgage account  history that Mrs T missed the next few payments after the 
property was returned.
That leaves the items  Mr and Mrs T say were removed from the property  a radio, a drill 
and a quad bike.
As is standard practice, the eviction agent carried out a full inspection  of the property  
preparing an inventory and taking photos. The items  are not listed on the inventory, and 
dont appear in the photos that Halifax has given us.
Mr and Mrs T say they reported  the theft of the items to the police  and they say the quad 
bike does appear  in photos  shown  to the investigating officer by the eviction agent.
We asked the police about this. The investigating  officer said she had been shown a photo  
of the quad bike by the eviction agent. She said she was shown the picture in January 2019 
but didnt know  when it was taken (the eviction was in October 2018), and she said our 
investigator would need to get a copy of the photo  from the eviction agent.  
Halifax said it had checked with the eviction  agent,  and he did not recall showing  pictures 
including a quad bike to the police. All the pictures taken during the eviction were provided to 
us and none contained a quad bike.
Ive considered this further evidence carefully. On the one hand, Mr and Mrs T are very clear 
in their recollection that the quad  bike and other  items were on site at the time of the eviction  
and later disappeared.  And the police  officer says she was shown a photo of it by the 
eviction agent   which must, if it exists, have been  taken  at the time of or after the eviction.
Ref: DRN73817724On the other hand, we have not been  shown  this photo, either by Mr and Mrs T or the police. 
Ive looked carefully  at all the photos we have been  given by the eviction agent,  and the 
quad bike and the other  items  dont  appear  in them. But the photos do appear  to be a fairly 
complete record of the property and its grounds   as I would expect an eviction agent 
cataloguing the property  to do. Theres no report of a burglary or break in at the property or 
its grounds while it was in the possession of the eviction  agent. And while  Mr and Mrs T 
have reported  the theft,  there  doesnt  seem to be an active police investigation.  
Ultimately, its for Mr and Mrs T to prove their case,  on the balance of probabilities.  That 
means its for them to show  that its more likely than not that the items were on site and then 
later stolen or removed.  Ive carefully  considered all the evidence. And having done  so, Im 
not persuaded that its more likely than not that the items in question were on the property at 
the time of the eviction, and then dishonestly removed before it was handed back.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381772