K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr H says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1996 it was sold in 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his card. I dont  know for certain  what was said at the time the policy was sold, but FICL 
has provided a copy  of Mr Hs store card application  form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take the policy has been  selected. 
Mr H also signed the application form in agreement  with the selections made on it. As Mr H 
was agreeing to an important  financial  commitment  I would have expected him to have read 
over the form before  signing in agreement with both the PPI and the card.  So I think its likely 
FICL made it clear  that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr H has told us he had a secure job with sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mr Hs sick pay and for longer. 
As Ive said above  I think Mr H chose to take out the PPI  knowing the other means he had 
available at the time so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
Ref: DRN77409752For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7740975