K821x#15complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has declined to replace her 
propertys front door under  her home  insurance  policy, after it was damaged during a 
burglary.
background
In January 2017 Mrs Js property was broken into. There were a number of doors and 
windows that were damaged during the break in  including the main front door. Mrs J 
contacted L&G to make a claim for the damage  that had occurred  as well as for some  
stolen items.
L&G appointed a specialist to attend  Mrs Js property and review the damage to the doors 
and windows. It was agreed that two doors needed to be replaced, as well as one window.
And that another damaged window, and the front door, could be repaired. Mrs J raised  some  
concerns about  the front door being  repaired, rather than replaced.
The specialist appointed by L&G said it could repair the damage to the front door. It said it 
would complete some cosmetic repairs to the door, and adjust and re-fix this. But it said 
there was an area of damage on the front door (a bow in the door frame) which it didnt  think  
was caused during the break in. Instead it said this damage was due to wear and tear.
The specialist then replaced the relevant doors and windows. And completed repair  work  to 
the remaining  window  and the front door. But as above, it didnt fix the bowing in the front 
door.
Mrs J felt this was unfair. She said that the bow in the door wasnt  present before the break 
in and her front door was in full working  order. But, since the event she now had difficulties 
opening and closing the door. As well as problems with operating the locking system. So, 
she felt L&G should  be remedying  the bow in the front door too. And she felt the front door 
needed to be replaced.
L&G said it sent a securing team  from its specialist  to visit Mrs Js property to look at the 
door because they had been told this wasnt secure. It said that during this visit it tried the 
door from both sides and was able to close and lock it. And it maintained its position that the 
bow in the door was as a result of wear and tear. So, L&G didnt think  any further work 
needed to be completed.  But, it offered Mrs J an amount of £50, to recognise  the less than 
desired service Mrs J experienced.
Because Mrs J disagreed  she referred her complaint  to this service. Our investigator looked 
at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  She said that L&G had provided 
evidence from a specialist, including photos.  And she was satisfied this was persuasive 
evidence that the bow was as a result of wear and tear and not as a result  of damage 
caused during  the break in.
Mrs J provided  further evidence, from her own specialist. Our investigator considered this, 
and said she thought L&Gs expert  had provided a more accurate and persuasive 
assessment of the matter. So, she maintained her opinion that L&G didnt need to do 
anything more.
Mrs J disagreed. She said;
Ref: DRN78457202her specialist said it, or any other specialist, wouldnt be able to tell the cause of the 
bow to the door without seeing  the door before the break  in occurred. But, that it told 
her it had never seen  a door which had bowed  due to wear and tear.
if a burglar exerts force on a door it seemed likely this would  cause issues with the 
door. And she thought this was what had happened in this case.
her friend (who has since provided  an email confirming this) who had come to her 
home to water her plants whilst  she was away had been able to open and close the 
door with no problems before the break in, but had also tried the door since  and has 
encountered problems  with opening  and closing  it.
Because Mrs J disagreed,  this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mrs J and Legal  & General Insurance  Limited on 
28 May 2019.
In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
Ive looked at Mrs Js policy to see what cover it provides. Having done so I can see that
Mrs Js policy does provide cover for loss or damage caused  by theft or attempted  theft. All 
parties are in agreement  that a theft did occur, and that during this event damage was 
caused to Mrs Js property. So, I havent needed  to consider this any further.
But, Mrs J has said the repair work carried out to the front door isnt sufficient. As above, she 
has said there wasnt a bow in the front door before the theft, and now there is. And this is 
causing problems  with the closing  and locking of the door. L&G has said this damage was 
caused by wear and tear, not during the theft.  It said damage caused  by wear and tear isnt 
covered by the policy.
I can see Mrs Js policy does exclude  loss or damage caused by wear and tear. When  an 
insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy it needs to establish, on balance, that the 
exclusion applies. In this instance,  L&G would need to show it was most likely  that the bow 
in the door was caused by wear  and tear, rather than being caused  during the burglary. So,
Ive thought about whether L&G has shown this is the case.
On looking at the information provided to me, I dont think L&G has proven the above 
exclusion applies.
Ive seen information from L&Gs specialist, including  the job sheets it completed when it 
attended Mrs Js property.  The specialists  initial  visit noted  the front door needed  some  
cosmetic repairs  and re-fixing  and adjusting. It doesnt mention the bow in the door, or what  
it feels is the cause  of this damage. And the job sheet from the second visit doesnt provide 
any detail about  why it feels the bow in the door is more likely to have  been  caused by wear  
and tear rather than as a result of force used  on the door during the burglary. L&G and its 
specialist have provided a general  explanation  that UPVC doors can bow, and that this is 
usually due to age related  wear and tear. But, I dont think  this is sufficient evidence to show  
Ref: DRN78457203that in this case this is what caused the bow in the door, and therefore that the wear and tear 
exclusion applies. I would expect to see firm, specific evidence  to show why it has reached  
this conclusion.
Mrs J has said the bow wasnt present before the burglary. And she has provided a 
statement from a neighbour, who visited the property before the burglary to water plants 
whilst Mrs J wasnt there. In the statement the neighbour says that after the burglary 
happened they tried to open and close the door,  and it is now more  difficult to do than 
before. I appreciate  L&Gs specialist has said it was able to close and lock the door from 
both sides  and that may be the case.  But I think the evidence  Mrs J has provided here 
does suggest  a change in how well the door works, following the burglary.
There was other damage to the front door as a result of the burglary (which  L&G has fixed).
This included a jemmy mark to the door.  Its clear  from this that the perpetrators  used force 
to try and gain access to the property through this entrance, and were unsuccessful as the 
door was locked. I think its reasonable to suggest that such  force could cause additional  
damage to the door. And Im more persuaded by Ms Js explanation that the bow in the door 
happened as a result  of the burglary, given the above, and in the absence  of firm evidence 
from L&G to confirm the bow was as a result of wear  and tear. Given this, I think  L&G should 
take action to fix the bow in the front door.
Im aware from looking at the job sheet provided  from L&Gs third visit in March 2018 it 
explained it wasnt possible  to do anything with the bow in the door. I understand this to 
mean the bow in the door cant  be repaired. Given this, Im satisfied L&G should replace  
Mrs Js front door with a like for like replacement.
L&G offered  Mrs J an amount of £50 for receiving a less than desired service. I cant  see any 
other issues with the handling of the claim,  other than with this door.  And I think £50 is fair 
and reasonable compensation to reflect  the upset this has caused.  So, Im not intending  on 
requesting L&G do anything more here.
Both parties  received my provisional decision. And both parties agreed to this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint for the same reasons  as detailed in my provisional decision.
Neither party has raised any comments or provided further evidence that alters my decision. 
So, I require  Legal  & General to replace the front door at Mrs Js property with a like for like 
door.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited 
to;
Replace the front door at Mrs Js property with a like for like door.
If it hasnt  done  so already L&G should  pay Mrs J the £50 compensation offered to 
her. Legal  & General should  pay this within  28 days of us telling  it Mrs J accepted my 
Ref: DRN78457204final decision. If it pays later than this it should add interest to the compensation rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Legal & General consider  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax back HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7845720