complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside a mortgage.
background
the PPI
Mr and Mrs N took out a joint mortgage with Bank  of Scotland  in 1991. A monthly 
premium PPI policy was added to their account. Neither Bank of Scotland nor
Mr and Mrs N can say how the policy was sold to them. The policy  covered their 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs N were jointly covered under the policy.
The monthly premium  at the outset was £24 and it covered them  for £600 per month in 
total. This was more than their monthly  mortgage repayment of around £400 per month. It 
covered them up for up to 12 months  per successful claim.
my second  provisional  decision
I issued  my second  provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ns complaint in December  2018. I 
said I was minded not to uphold their complaint. I explained why. I attach my second  
provisional decision, which forms part of this final decision.
Mr and Mrs N didnt  agree  with my second provisional decision. They  made  further  comments 
and asked to see the banks records Id relied on to reach my provisional findings.  We sent 
them the relevant records,  and they made some further comments in response.
Mr and Mrs N ask that I publish  their latest  correspondence alongside  my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints about 
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case.
I have taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ns representations, including  the ones they have 
recently made in response to my second  provisional  decision and those made  having seen the 
banks internal records. Having carefully considered these,  along with all their other  comments, 
my views on the key issues remain as set out in my second provisional decision, and for the 
reasons already explained. 
I dont think it appropriate to publish Mr and Mrs Ns latest  correspondence alongside my 
decision. It would not be usual to do so, and I see no good reason to do so here. But as Ive 
said, Ive taken it all into consideration in reaching my decision.
I understand that Mr and Mrs N feel strongly  about their complaint  and disagree  with some of 
my views.  But, in coming to this final decision Ive read,  and thought  carefully about, all the 
points theyve made  throughout the course of the complaint and all the information theyve 
provided. I dont think  their latest correspondence  raises any important new issues that I 
havent already  thought about. And it doesnt change  my overall conclusions.
Our role as a service  is to investigate the facts  and then decide  what  more likely than not 
happened based on all the information available. We do not have  to be satisfied so that we 
are sure  of what happened. We are not limited  to considering the specific arguments put 
forward by either party. On our website, we explain that we decide each  case on its individual 
facts and merits  not on how cleverly  or persuasively either side argues their case.
Ref: DRN7083801my final decision
For the reasons  set out above  and in my second  provisional decision,  I do not uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083801Copy of Second Provisional  Decision   6 December 2018
complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  alongside a mortgage.
background
the PPI
Mr and Mrs N took out a joint mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 1991. A monthly  premium 
PPI policy was added to their account. Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr and Mrs N can say 
how the policy  was sold to them. The policy covered  their mortgage repayments in the 
event of accident, sickness or unemployment. They were jointly  covered under the policy.
The monthly premium at the outset was £24 and it covered them for £600 per month in total. This 
was more  than their monthly mortgage repayment of around  £400 per month. It covered them  up for 
up to 12 months per successful claim.
my first provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ns complaint in August 2018.  I said I didnt  
intend to uphold the complaint, and explained why. Mr and Mrs N didnt  accept  my first provisional  
decision and made further representations. In summary, they said:
My decision puts forward a proposition that at the time of agreeing  to the mortgage,
 Mr and Mrs N didnt  take out PPI. But, in the intervening 6 months prior to July 1991,  they took 
out PPI and it was added to their account to begin in July 1991.
For this proposition to be reasonable  there would have  to have been a reason for them to 
change their minds  in the intervening  period, namely  a change  of circumstances.
They  wouldve had to forget both the initial discussion and later changing their minds  
about PPI. It is highly  unlikely that they both wouldve  forgotten such a significant and 
involved process.
There is an alternative proposition they feel is more likely than the current 
proposition, that is:
o They took out house and building contents  insurance  in January 1991.
    This  is shown on the Mortgage Related Payments (MRP) document. But,
    no premium was taken until July 1991.
o They didnt  take out PPI when they took out the mortgage as shown by the
                           N/A remark  on the MRP.
o The premium for PPI began to be collected in July 1991, at the same  time as the
    house insurance premium was first collected.
o Likely, there was a six month premium delay for the PPI policy as an incentive
    to take it out.
o The premiums for the PPI policy were likely activated  in July 1991, as a result of
    an administrative error, because they had not signed up for PPI. This probably
    occurred  because  normally both policies  are taken out together.
o The record of PPI payment wasnt included  in the annual statement of account,  so
     they didnt  notice it. This explains why no policy  documents  were received or
     retained, as no policy  was taken  out.
o They strenuously  deny  signing up to the PPI policy.
I have underestimated the general expectation regarding redundancy  for a
professional grade public sector worker.
My provisional decision  is flawed as it requires several unexplained and unusual steps to 
have been taken, is too complex and relies on too many unknowns  and inexplicable  actions.
Ref: DRN7083801Exploring Mr and Mrs Ns comments,  I asked Bank of Scotland whether in 1991,  it offered a period 
free from premiums for building and contents insurance and/or  PPI. It said that it wouldnt comment 
on the buildings and contents aspect as this is not part of PPI. And that it is unable  to confirm 
whether there was a promotional period offered for PPI.
As agreement  couldnt  be reached Mr and Mrs Ns complaint has been  passed back  to me to 
consider.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general  approach to complaints about  the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Where the evidence is either  incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make a decision on what  I think 
is most likely to have  happened  based on whats available and looking  at the wider 
circumstances.
As has been said, much  of the documentation that wouldve  existed in 1991 is no longer available 
now. Banks often only keep  records for six years,  and the relevant  mortgage and policy ended in 
2002. Similarly, consumers often dont keep  their financial  records for over 25 years. So to decide 
this case,  Ive had to reach a number  of conclusions  on what, more likely  than not, happened at the 
time of the sale.
I have taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ns comments made at various  times,  including in 
response to my first provisional decision.  Ive also taken into account Bank of Scotlands 
representations and the limited paperwork  or other records that Ive been sent.
Based on what Ive seen and heard so far, Im still minded not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  Ill 
explain why. Some of my reasons are the same  as set out in my first provisional decision. To avoid 
any doubt Ive set out my reasons in full here.
I cant  know exactly what was discussed leading to PPI being added. Bank of Scotland  no longer 
has a copy of Mr and Mrs Ns paperwork  from the time of the sale. I dont think thats surprising after 
so long. Ive seen some  screenshots  from the banks records. These show that PPI premiums 
started in July 1991, some months after Mr and Mrs N took out their mortgage.  The bank cant say 
however, how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs N.
Bank of Scotland says in line with its usual procedure, Mr and Mr N wouldve been told that
PPI was optional and asked whether they wanted it before it was added.
Mr and Mrs N sent us a Bank of Scotland document titled Mortgage Related  Payments.  Ive 
referred to this as the MRP. This is undated.  I cant know  if this originates  from when 
Mr and Mrs N took out their mortgage. But, I think more  likely than not it does. I say that because, 
as Mr and Mrs N point out, it refers to buildings  and contents insurance at a cost of £216 per 
annum. I can see from their mortgage statement that in January 1991 the annual premium of £216 
for insurance was added to their mortgage account. Mr and Mrs N think the MRP document  is 
important because  it says that at the time they took out the mortgage PPI was N/A.  Mr and Mrs N 
suggest this shows that PPI was considered  not suitable for their needs.
Ive taken N/A to mean not applicable - the usual everyday meaning  attached to this 
abbreviation. From the evidence available, I said in my first provisional  decision that I thought  PPI 
wasnt taken out at the start of their mortgage  in January 1991. Thats  because  it seemed  to me that 
the purpose of the MRP was to list the mortgage  related costs, rather  than to give a view on the 
suitability of PPI for their needs.  As they werent  taking PPI in January  1991,  there was no cost to 
add  PPI was not an applicable cost.
Ref: DRN7083801I dont share Mr and Mrs Ns view that the MRP document is evidence that they were  advised  
against taking PPI in January 1991. However, I think the MRP does show that Mr and Mrs N were 
likely told from the outset that PPI was optional, if they didnt  take PPI when they took out their 
mortgage. So, I think they wouldve understood PPI was an optional  extra.
Ive taken on board Mr and Mrs Ns comments about Bank of Scotland offering PPI free to 
customers for the first six months,  to incentivise them to take it out. Based  on the records now 
available, Bank of Scotland cant say whether that was the case  for Mr and Mrs N. But, even if I 
were to accept this, I go back to what I said about the MRP,  that I think the purpose of it was to list 
the mortgage related costs. There wouldve been no cost for PPI to add at the outset if it was free, 
so it was not an applicable cost. It might help to explain why the premiums started  in July 1991,  6 
months later.  But, this wouldnt change my view overall. The main  difference would  be the point  in 
time that Mr and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy.  It may explain why Mr and Mrs N cant recall 
a later conversation  about PPI.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage statement from the start of their mortgage. There is a 
cost of £216 for Insurance added on 31 January 1991. So, I think  they were charged for this 
insurance from the outset, as a single premium.  Given that the amount corresponds with the 
figure mentioned  on the MRP  for Buildings  and Contents , I think  the insurance  mentioned here 
was likely  the building and contents insurance.
I can see that there is an £18 monthly bank credit paid into their mortgage account from
12 June 1991. I cant know what this monthly credit is payment for. But, even if it is for house and 
buildings insurance, these credits started earlier than the PPI premiums started. The
PPI premiums began around a month later on 11 July 1991. So, I think  Mr and Mrs Ns 
explanation of this being  an administrative error,  caused  by Halifax erroneously activating both 
premiums at the same  time,  is unlikely to be right.
Having seen  a screenshot from the banks records, I accept the banks  explanation for the 
reason why PPI didnt show on Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage account statements  until 1996.  I think  
it likely this was because PPI was funded separately to begin  with. As the PPI premiums were  
initially managed separately from the mortgage account, I think  this is another reason  why its 
unlikely that Halifax made an administrative  mistake  and activated the PPI premiums at the 
same time as collecting the house and contents insurance premiums.
I agree with our adjudicator  that it is feasible that at some point after January 1991  (when the
MRP appears to originate from) Mr and Mrs N couldve revisited the decision about PPI.
Mr and Mrs N felt by reaching this conclusion our adjudicator had shown bias.  I dont agree. I
think it is a fair and reasonable conclusion to reach, given the available evidence.
I cant know how the PPI came to be added.  Mr and Mrs N said their circumstances hadnt 
changed, so there was no reason for them to change their mind and take out PPI months later.  
But, I dont think it necessarily follows  that there needs to be a change of circumstances.  They 
said its not credible to conclude that they wouldve forgotten about the initial  conversation about  
PPI and the later one. Ive thought carefully  about what theyve said,  including  that its feasible  
there wasnt a second conversation about PPI. Either way, I place more  weight on the fact that 
the amount of cover per month  was set at £600 (£300 each).  The screenshots  from the time 
show this. I can see from their mortgage statement that their mortgage was around £400 at this 
time. I think it highly unlikely that Bank of Scotland wouldve selected a level of cover that 
exceeded their mortgage  repayment by a third, unless  directed to do so by Mr and Mrs N. I think 
it more likely that this higher level of cover was selected following a conversation  with Mr and 
Mrs N and that it was their decision to take out PPI with this level of cover.
In order to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  Id have to find that its likely that PPI was added 
to their mortgage account  without their consent.  I cant fairly say that based on the limited 
information Ive got. I think it more likely that PPI was added because Mr and Mrs N said they 
wanted it, and they wanted the level of cover to be set at £300 per month each.
Ref: DRN7083801So, I cant fairly uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint on the basis that they werent  told the policy  
was optional and didnt willingly agree to take it out. On balance, I think they knew from the outset 
that PPI was optional and more likely than not agreed to take it out, either at the outset or some 
months after taking out their mortgage.
To be fair to Mr and Mrs N, because I dont know how this policy was sold to them, I have worked  on 
the basis  that Bank of Scotland  advised  them  to take PPI. That imposed  an extra responsibility on it, 
to consider whether the policy was suitable  for them. Whether  or not Bank of Scotland recommended  
the PPI to them, the bank also had to give them information that was clear, fair and not misleading, 
so that they could make  an informed choice about whether the policy  was right for them.
Bank of Scotland no longer has a copy of the policy terms and conditions from 1991. It has 
provided a copy of a later policy document. Based on what weve learnt from dealing  with other 
Bank of Scotland cases, I think it likely that the terms and conditions applying at the time of this 
sale wouldve  been similar. I have looked at the complaint on this basis.
Having done so, it doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs N based on what
Ive seen of their circumstances when the policy  was sold. Ill explain why.
They appear  to have been eligible for the cover. It doesnt look inappropriate  that the cover was 
taken out jointly  they were  both working full-time, with a similar level of income: They  said they 
were both in secure  jobs and wouldve got up to 12 months worth  of sick pay through work  and had 
redundancy cover.
Mr N said he also had an income protection policy  which  wouldve paid out 75% of his 
salary for up to two years, after a three month deferral  period. They also said they had joint 
savings of around  £13,000. They said some of this came  from the sale of a house.  Their
joint gross  income was around £22,000 at the time according to Bank of Scotlands
records. Mr and Mrs N dont now have the documents to verify what theyve said about
their circumstances. But, I have accepted what theyve said about  their financial position.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits. It wouldve  allowed  them to use 
their work benefits  to meet their other household expenses and saved them from dipping 
into their savings. I cant see that the income  protection policy provided duplicate  
protection. Mr N said it also covered redundancy. It didnt  cover Mrs Ns loss of income and 
she was earning a comparable amount to Mr N at the time. So, if she lost her job, or wasnt 
able to work  through sickness, I think this wouldve had an impact  on their joint financial 
circumstances. The point I made  in my first provisional decision  about  Mrs Ns income  was 
that the income  protection policy  didnt cover her at all. So, it clearly didnt provide them  
with the same protection as the PPI policy.
 I think it may have been  important to Mr and Mrs N in 1991 to safeguard their savings, 
given that they didnt  use these to reduce their mortgage borrowing  which  was around 
£39,000 at the time. As the PPI policy  was protecting their home, potentially for 25 years, I 
cant see that their other means made the policy clearly unsuitable.
 There wouldve been some things the policy didnt cover. But, I cant  see that Mr and 
Mrs N were affected by these. So, I dont  think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected  their decision  to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN7083801K820x#14The cost of the policy was around £24 per month. The amount of cover was around
£600 per month.  The cost of the policy  didnt  carry interest.  They  couldve cancelled it at 
any time without losing  out financially. Its possible  that they couldve been
given clearer information about the cost of the policy.  But, I think even if they had been, 
they wouldve still taken  the insurance  given that it appeared affordable, suitable and I 
think it likely they said they wanted this level of cover.
I have  taken into account  everything that Mr and Mrs N have had to say. I appreciate they feel 
strongly and have put a considerable amount of time and effort  into their complaint.  And I know 
theyre frustrated that Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide more detailed  information  on 
some points. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold. I 
recognise that the lack of documentation from the time of sale means that the sequence of events  
is not as clear as it mightve been.  But, I do consider that Bank of Scotlands internal records from 
the time of sale can reasonably be relied on. They  were made at a time before this complaint was 
known about. I must make a decision based on what  I consider more likely than not happened, 
taking everything into account,  including  the records Ive seen. I dont accept the full version of 
events Mr and Mrs N put forward in response to my first provisional decision is likely, for the 
reasons Ive explained.
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs N still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if they had been 
better advised and informed, as the policy  gave them useful  protection in their circumstances. I 
cant see they have lost out because of anything that Bank of Scotland may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For these  reasons, I am minded not to uphold their complaint.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083801