K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about a number of loans  CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as 
QuickQuid) lent to her. She says QuickQuid lent irresponsibly to her.
background
Mrs S complained to QuickQuid through a third party  representative about 24 loans 
QuickQuid lent to her between December 2009  and August 2015. The loan amounts varied 
from £50 to £400.
QuickQuid has provided information about the loans and Ive attached an appendix at the 
end of this decision  with the information about  some  of the loans. From  what  Ive seen, 
Mrs S has repaid all her loans.
When Mrs S complained to QuickQuid  in October 2017  about the loans, it didnt uphold  her 
complaint. It said it carried out proportionate checks before lending and it didnt find any 
evidence that she was dependent on these loans.
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and QuickQuid objected to this service looking 
into her complaint about loans that were  taken more than six years  before Mrs S 
complained. As I understand  it, Mrs S withdrew her complaint about those loans (loans  1 to 
14).
And so our adjudicator looked  at Mrs S complaint about loans 15 to 24 and thought Mrs S 
was dependent on these  loans and recommended that her complaint should be upheld. 
QuickQuid didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me  an ombudsman  for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs S case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint about  loans 15 to 24 and have explained why below.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs S income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN75463932But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount, or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or  frequency  of loans 
the period of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing  is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs S complaint. These  questions  are:
1.did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mrs S would be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown Mrs S would have been able to do so?
2.taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs S indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about all of these questions and what  they mean for Mrs S complaint.
did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  
itself that Mrs S would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks 
have shown that Mrs S would have been  able to do so?
QuickQuid has told us what checks it carried out before lending. It has said it searched 
Mrs S credit  file, checked her employment  status, income and whether she was renting. At 
the time Mrs S declared that she was employed, renting and her income varied from £1,000  
to £1,300.
Although Im not looking at Mrs S complaint about  loans  1 to 14, Ive taken them into 
account as they form part of her lending history. And by the time QuickQuid  lent Mrs S loan 
15, it was her fifteenth loan in less than two years. Mrs S had essentially been borrowing 
repeatedly from QuickQuid for that period without any breaks that affected  the lending  chain. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 15 to 24 because  
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mrs S indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending to see if there was a point at which  QuickQuid 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. 
And so QuickQuid shouldve realised  that it shouldnt have provided  any further lending. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs S case, QuickQuid shouldnt have lent her loan 
15 and all subsequent  loans. 
Ref: DRN75463933I say this because  firstly, the frequency of Mrs S borrowing  should  have concerned 
QuickQuid and it ought to have realised  it was likely their indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably. Mrs S was repeatedly borrowing from loans 15 to 24 without any noticeable  
breaks in lending. I can see that there  was a break  of around 4 months between loans 16 
and 17 but given Mrs S long lending history, Im not persuaded that this break was 
sufficient. In my view, it wasnt reasonable for QuickQuid to believe that Mrs S was no longer 
dependent on these loans  during the time.  Also, on some occasions she was borrowing 
within a day or two of repaying a loan. 
Also, Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed QuickQuid, and was in 
effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended  period. Mrs S 
was essentially using  the loans to substitute  her income and borrowing  a loan to repay 
another. Bearing in mind the purpose  of short-term loans and the relevant rules and 
regulations, the frequency and length of time for which Mrs S was borrowing ought  to have 
caused QuickQuid  concern.  I note QuickQuids own website acknowledges,  Short-term  
loans should be used for short-term financial needs  only, and not as long-term financial 
solution. As a responsible lender, we do not encourage the frequent use of our service.
I can see that Mrs S  was demonstrating  repayment difficulties from around loan 3, she 
rolled over at least ten of the loans  and in one instance she rolled  over a loan three times. 
Mrs S also topped up her borrowing on loan 19 before she repaid any of the interest and 
incurred late fee charges  on some of the loans. I can also see that it took Mrs S around two 
and a half years to repay the flex credit  (loan  24)  this was more than the reasonable10  
month repayment period suggested in the loan agreement.
I think that Mrs S lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan 15 
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness  by allowing 
her to take expensive credit  over an extended period of time;
the sheer  number of loans (loans  and deferrals) was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mrs S ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the 
market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs S complaint about  loans 15 to 24 because the overall pattern of 
lending increased  her indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and she lost out as a result.
did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some  
other way.  
Ref: DRN75463934putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans 15 to 24;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were  paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 15 to 24 means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about  these  loans should be removed from Mrs S 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Im upholding Mrs S complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
appendix
Please note that loans denoted  with both a letter and a number are top-ups. This is where 
Mrs S borrowed additional  funds during the course of the credit agreement.
loan 
number date taken amount (£) date repaid
15 26/11/11 200 02/12/11
16 02/01/12 150 16/02/12
17 09/06/12 50 04/07/12
18 10/08/12 50 05/09/12
Ref: DRN7546393519
19a10/11/12
12/11/1250
50 15/11/12
20 11/01/13 100 06/03/13
21 08/03/13 100 01/05/13
22 02/05/13 150 12/05/13
23 14/05/13 100 17/05/13
24 17/05/13 850 08/09/15
Ref: DRN7546393