K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (H&T) lent to him irresponsibly. He says 
that H&T ought to have  been aware of his financial difficulties and not allowed him to have 
the loans. 
background
Loan Approved Amount Loan term Repaid
1 8 September 2016 £100 22 days 31 September 2016
2 10 October 2016 £300 6 months 28 April 2017
3 10 May 2017 £100 82 days 24 August 2017
4 19 January 2018 £500 18 months 9 July 2018
The Loan  Table is a brief summary of the loans approved for Mr S. One of our adjudicators 
considered the complaint and thought that by January 2018 when Mr S applied  for Loan 4 
then a full financial  review ought  to have been carried out by H&T before deciding  to lend. If 
it had done that then it was not likely to have approved Loan 4 for Mr S. 
H&T disagreed, asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and said:
-its credit  file search gave it no cause  to be concerned;
-Mr S repaid Loan 4 early and so it cannot  have been  unaffordable; and
-there is a five month gap between repaying  Loan 3 and applying  for Loan 4 and 
shows no dependence on our finance.
Mr S was asked to say a bit more about these points. He said nothing about his credit file 
situation, but he did say that to repay Loan  4 he had to borrow from a family  member. Mr S 
has not disagreed  with the outcome in relation to Loans 1 to 3 and from that it appears these 
are not in dispute. So, I have not reviewed  these. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision. I reviewed 
Loan 4 within the context  of the lending relationship overall. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  high cost lending - including  all of the relevant  rules, guidance 
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include: 
where a customers income  is particularly  low; where the repayments are particularly high;  
and/or where  the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which  a customer  has 
Ref: DRN79268582been given loans need to be looked  at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
H&T was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer  should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all of the arguments,  evidence and information provided  in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Loan 4 was an instalment loan and was to be repaid by 18 repayments of just over £80. 
I note what H&T has said about  the gap between  Loans 3 and 4. It was just under five 
months long. I do not think  that it was a long enough  gap to break  the lending  relationship  as 
he had been a customer of H&T for a year (September 2016 to August 2015), so I do not 
think that was a long enough  period  for H&T to think that it was a new lending relationship 
when Mr S applied  for Loan 4. I have looked at the loans as one chain.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for Loan 4 would have been a full and 
comprehensive financial review. And that was because by the time Mr S had repaid Loan  3, 
he would  have been in debt for a year and this new loan application would have extended 
his indebtedness  for a further 18 months. Had H&T carried out the full financial review, it 
would most  likely have  shown that Mr S spent large amounts of money  on betting and 
gaming sites: sometimes several  hundred  pounds  each  day. 
And so I do not think that H&T would have lent to him for Loan 4 if it had carried out the 
proportionate checks I think were appropriate  in January 2018. 
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
 refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on Loan 4;
 pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative payment information about Loan 4 from Mr S credit  file;
Ref: DRN79268583* HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr S complaint in part. Harvey & Thompson  
Limited should do as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926858