K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C took out two instalment loans with Satsuma  between January and February 2016. Ive 
included more information about  the loans below:
loan date takenamount 
borrowedWeekly 
repaymentsdate repaid
1 11 January 2016 £250 £27.52 outstanding
222 February 
2016£450 £17.22 outstanding
Mr C doesnt think that Satsuma shouldve agreed  to lend  particularly loan two as he 
applied for the loans  in quick succession.  Mr C says that at the time he had a number of 
other payday loans,  a large overdraft, two defaults  and a poor credit  score.
Mr C wants Satsuma to clear  the interest off the loans so that he can repay the principal 
sum. Mr C wants Satsuma to remove the defaults from his credit  file.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.  Mr C disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN71134602the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Tradings Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr C for details of his income, housing costs,  
financial commitments  and other outgoings before  agreeing  to lend each time. As well as 
this, Satsuma has told us that it included safeguards to reflect  information  gathered  from 
credit searches.
When Mr C applied for loan one, he declared  his net monthly income to be £2,400.  By loan 
two, this had increased to £2,500. Mr C declared  monthly expenses  of between  £1,200  and 
£1,345.
Given the relatively modest  proportion of Mr Cs declared monthly income that each of the 
loan repayments  represented, I consider Satsumas checks were  proportionate. 
Although Mr C applied  for two loans from Satsuma within  a fairly short space  of time, I dont 
think that this was enough on its own to establish  a pattern of repeated lending or reliance 
on short  term lending. 
The credit checks that Satsuma carried out showed  that Mr C hadnt taken out any other 
payday loans  within the previous three months. I appreciate  that Mr C had taken out some  
other payday loans  around the same  time as the Satsuma loans but I cant say that Satsuma  
shouldve reasonably been  aware of this. This is because not all lenders reported  to credit 
reference agencies  or because  it can take a number of weeks for a credit  report to be 
updated. So recent applications made to other lenders wouldnt have shown up on 
Satsumas searches.
There was nothing else of concern  in Satsumas credit checks such  as defaults, County 
Court Judgments, debt management plans or credit accounts in arrears  that shouldve 
prompted extra checks. So I dont think Satsuma needed to take further steps to verify the 
Ref: DRN71134603information that Mr C provided. This means  that even though Mr Cs financial situation may 
have been worse than he disclosed to Satsuma,  I dont think what I consider to have been  
proportionate checks wouldve  revealed this.
Overall, it appeared  to Satsuma that Mr C could afford  to repay both loans. So I cant  say 
that Satsuma was wrong to agree to lend. It follows that I dont  require Satsuma to write off 
any of the outstanding balances or remove any negative information about the loans from his 
credit file. Im sorry that this is likely  to come as a disappointment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7113460