K820x#14Complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  were unfair in writing off her car following 
two collisions after she made  a claim under her car insurance policy. She wants the 
Category B (CAT B) placed  on the car by Tesco, removed.  She is represented in this case 
by a solicitor, but for ease of reference  I will refer to her as Mrs A throughout.
Background
Mrs A bought a car in 2018 and insured it with Tesco. She was involved in two collisions on 
the same  day in 2019. This meant the car sustained front and rear end damage. The car 
was taken to a Tesco authorised repairer where  it was assessed by a vehicle engineer,  who 
deemed it a CAT B total loss. This Category means it has been  examined by an 
appropriately qualified  person and declared  unsuitable or beyond  repair, and it must be 
scrapped. 
Mrs A did not agree  with this categorisation and asked  for the vehicle  to be returned  to her. 
She had the vehicle repaired  and it passed  a MOT test.
Mrs A complained to Tesco that their decision to categorise the total-loss  as B was unfair. 
She said that as the damage  was repaired, and it had been safety checked and passed the 
MOT, Tesco should  remove the CAT B. She also stated she wished to withdraw the 
insurance claim so that it no longer showed on her record.
Tesco responded that they would not remove the CAT-B classification, as the engineer 
recommended the vehicle  was not returned  to the road. They also reviewed the value they 
had placed on the vehicle  and made  her an increased offer of £835 if she returned it to them 
for scrappage. The valuation was reduced  to reflect  previous damage  to the car that hadnt 
been repaired. Tesco said that, as no other  party had made a claim as a result of either 
collision, they would  be recorded  as notification only.
Mrs A did not accept that the CAT-B was fair so made a complaint to our service.  She also 
told us that Tesco hadnt provided  a courtesy  car as they should have, while hers was in the 
authorised repairer.  
In settlement  of her complaint Mrs A wanted  the CAT-B marker removed from the cars 
record. She wanted Tesco to reimburse her for the cost of the repairs,  the car rental she had 
to have as a result of her car being  off the road, and her legal fees.
The investigator has sent a comprehensive response, and I dont  propose  to repeat this. 
However in summary  he thought:
Tesco had done all they needed  to do in respect  of the courtesy car
Tesco had been fair in applying  a CAT B to Mrs As car, and also in refusing to 
remove or alter it
and Tesco were  not responsible for reimbursing  Mrs As legal fees. 
Ref: DRN77855922Mrs A did not agree  with this view. She said Tesco had not provided a courtesy car even 
though she wanted one. She also still thought the CAT B was unfair as there was nothing 
structurally wrong with the car and it was roadworthy. So, the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view, for broadly  the same  reasons.
Although Mrs A hasnt  specifically disagreed  with the investigators view on Tesco  not being 
responsible for her legal fees, I think  it is important for me to clarify the situation. We were 
set up as an alternative to the courts. Its free to complain to us, so anyone  can use our 
service  without needing  to pay for other help, like a solicitor. So, it would be unfair of me to 
make Tesco reimburse her legal fees,  so I do not require them to do anything  in this regard.
Now, I move on to the situation with the courtesy  car. Mrs A was entitled to have one while 
her vehicle was being  assessed at the authorised  garage.  And she told Tesco that she 
wanted one. And I can see from what Tesco have provided, that they had authorised her to 
have one. 
Tesco say Mrs A was sent texts  on three  occasions,  and have  given the dates these texts 
were sent,  inviting Mrs A to contact them to arrange the courtesy car. They  say she didnt 
respond until the day after her car was declared  a total loss, when they say she said she 
didnt want one. 
I havent seen  any evidence to say these  texts were not sent or received. And there  is 
nothing recorded  on the customer notes to show that Mrs A responded or queried why she 
hadnt been given a car during the time she was entitled to it. So, on balance, I think that 
Tesco were reasonable in their efforts to contact Mrs A regarding  the courtesy car. I wont  be 
requiring them to do anything else. 
As regards  the categorisation of the vehicle, the complaint covers two aspects. Firstly, was 
the decision to give it a CAT B classification in the first place reasonable, and secondly, were  
Tesco fair to refuse to remove  the CAT B marker once Mrs A had the car repaired.
Tesco sent a vehicle engineer to the authorised repairers to assess the condition  of the 
vehicle following the collisions. This is common in cases like this. The engineer has stated in 
his opinion, that given the extent of the damage, and the low value of the vehicle, he felt 
there was a risk of cost-cutting repairs to be undertaken. So, he recommended the vehicle 
was not returned to the road. I think it is reasonable for Tesco  to rely on its experts opinion  
when deciding how to proceed with a claim,  so I think Tescos  decision to apply a CAT B 
was fair and reasonable.
As Ive said above,  a CAT B is added if the vehicle has been  examined by an appropriately 
qualified person, and declared  unsuitable  or beyond repair,  and it must  be scrapped.  And I 
think this marker has been fairly added in this case. I think the subsequent repairs  and 
testing, although  providing some  evidence of the car being roadworthy, dont automatically  
mean the original  categorisation  is no longer valid. They do not assess the quality of the 
repairs made. Without an equally or more persuasive report, prepared by a qualified  
Ref: DRN77855923engineer, to counter Tescos engineers assessment, I think, on balance,  Tesco  have been 
fair in their refusal to remove the marker.
Mrs A has asked  that she be reimbursed for the costs of a rental car she had to use. She 
said this because she was unable to use her car as the CAT B marker made it impossible to 
insure and tax. And, as she said Tesco were unfair to classify it as CAT B, they were 
responsible for her having  to use a rental  car. Im afraid I dont agree. As Ive said above, I 
think Tesco  were fair in applying, and not removing the CAT B marker, so as a result, it 
would be unfair  to make them repay the car rental costs.
I sympathise with the difficult  position in which Mrs A has found herself. She has paid to 
repair and test her vehicle, and believes it is roadworthy and shouldnt  be scrapped. But with 
the CAT B marker applied, the car is unusable as it cannot be driven legally. Tesco have  
offered to honour  their valuation of £835 for the car should Mrs A agree. I think this is a fair 
outcome, and if Mrs A wishes  to accept, she should  contact Tesco to arrange it.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785592