K822xComplaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt properly carry out her chargeback request, 
and didnt give her the right information to get her money back from a company she says 
didnt provide her with the services she paid for.
Background 
In January 2017, Ms W used her Visa debit card with HSBC  to pay for the services  offered 
by a company,  which Ill call C. The payment  was for almost  £6,000  and this was for a 
franchise or license  fee from C, as well as training and online assistance to get clients.
But Ms W didnt  feel happy  with how the services  were working for her. She didnt think it 
had delivered  the business opportunities it had promised. And shed  seen information  from C 
that it had begun to offer a refund of 100%  of the license fee if, after six months of following 
its system, it failed to get results.  She thought this should apply to her too.
She spoke  to HSBC  about the concerns that she was having and what  her options were.
And in December 2017, Ms W cancelled her contract with C and then asked HSBC  to 
request her money back using the chargeback  process. She said the services  she paid C for 
were not as it had described.
HSBC initially said it wasnt able to help as the transaction had been made through a 
different retailer and Ms W had used  the services shed paid for. But Ms W explained  that 
Cs name had changed  since. Ms W completed  a new set of forms for the chargeback 
request and HSBC  refunded the payment to her while it attempted  to claim it back.
But it didnt let Ms W know what  was happening with this and, because the money  had been  
refunded to her, she believed it had been  resolved. But HSBC  then said that the claim had 
been rejected  as it hadnt been made  within the timescales set by Visa.
HSBC apologised  that it had not kept Ms W up-to-date  but it said it was unable to assist her 
any further. It suggested that she contact C directly. It offered to credit Ms Ws account with 
£100 for the inconvenience shed been  caused.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that HSBC had given Ms W 
misleading information about the timescales for making a chargeback claim when shed 
called it before she cancelled her contract with C. However the adjudicator  thought that, 
even if Ms W had been given the right information  at that time, any chargeback claim would 
still have been  outside of the timescales so wouldnt have  successful.  She said HSBC had 
attempted the chargeback  a number of times but these had all been  rejected.  The 
adjudicator thought the £100 HSBC had offered Ms W was fair and reasonable.
Ms W didnt  accept the adjudicators findings and said she thought  HSBC  shouldve done 
everything it could to retrieve her money. She said shed maintained contact with C 
throughout about the concerns she had with the service it was providing, and that she wasnt  
seeing the results  it had promised. She said HSBC  had mishandled  her claim and 
miscommunicated with her.
After looking at the details of the complaint, an ombudsman  issued a provisional decision 
which said that although we thought HSBC had made a mistake when it accepted that 
Ms Ws chargeback request was made too late, we couldnt be satisfied that this led to her 
Ref: DRN71206142losing out on the chance of a successful claim. This was because it wasnt certain that the 
request wouldve been successful as Ms W had said that C had refused refunds to others  in 
her position.  So we though it was reasonable to expect that this chargeback  would have 
been defended. We didnt  think it was fair or reasonable to ask HSBC  to pay Ms W the 
money.
However, we said that the way HSBC had handled  the matter  wouldve caused Ms W 
additional distress  and inconvenience.  So we said it was our intention  to require HSBC  to 
pay Ms W £300  for this.
HSBC responded  to say that it was surprised to see the amount of compensation increased, 
as the provisional  decision  didnt differ significantly from the adjudicators  opinion.  But it 
agreed that it would  pay the compensation to resolve the matter.
Ms W responded and provided more information and brochures detailing  the services  of C.
She said she wouldnt have gone ahead with paying it if shed known that, by waiting to see 
if these services led to her having  a successful business, she wouldve been outside of the 
time limits to make  a chargeback claim.  She feels she is being penalised by the timescales
HSBC told her about. Ms W gave the details of why she believed she didnt  get the 
outcomes she was promised by C, which  was what she paid for.
My second  provisional  decision
I issued my second provisional decision  on this complaint in December 2019.  In summary, I 
didnt think HSBC should be required to allow Ms W to keep the funds it repaid into her 
account while investigating her claim. But I agreed that it should fairly compensate Ms W for 
the distress and inconvenience  she was caused  through the way the process  was 
communicated to her. 
I said that it isnt my role to comment on Cs business practices; marketing or services.  C 
isnt a financial business or financial  service  provider that falls within  our remit  to help with a 
complaint. Instead,  I looked into Ms Ws complaint about HSBC and its actions when helping 
her with her chargeback  request.  I said that although I appreciated that, for Ms W, these 
matters are all linked,  my findings related solely to HSBC.
I agreed that HSBCs communication with Ms W couldve been  much clearer  and more  
timely. I felt this may have helped with her understanding  of what could and could not be 
done to help and support her through the reasons why she was seeking  to claim her money 
back from C by the chargeback.
I said that unfortunately all the information  suggested that a chargeback claim was unlikely 
to have been successful, even if it had been  attempted sooner that it was. I said this 
because of what Ms W told us about others being refused a refund. There  are no guarantees 
that any chargeback  claim would  be successful in any circumstances. Chargebacks are 
decided on the card schemes  rules (here this is Visa), rather  than the merits of the dispute. 
These rules  also set the relevant  time limits.  But banks dont have to raise  a chargeback 
claim.
HSBC did attempt the chargeback on Ms Ws behalf  a number of times, but these were all 
without any success.  And even if a claim had been attempted  earlier  within the correct  
timescales, it seemed  likely that that it wouldve been defended and so still wouldve been 
unsuccessful. 
Ref: DRN71206143HSBC had agreed to pay Ms W £300 for the distress and inconvenience  she was caused  
through the way the process was communicated to her and I thought that was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
The responses
HSBC responded  to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Ms W said that she wasnt happy that neither  us nor HSBC were investigating the case  as a 
scam or fraud. She said HSBC could write off this amount on the basis that it was a fraud  
and we could  direct my case to the right independent body to deal with fraud in franchises or 
the advertisement body regulator.  
She said she doesnt know whether other  people  had been able to get a refund through their 
bank or not. She said that C had refused to refund those that she knows  of and doesnt wish 
her point about this to be misinterpreted. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms W has said that the franchisor changed  its name; however it appears  that it may have 
had a restructuring, not just a name change. And I appreciate  her clarification about the 
refusal of a refund to other franchisees that she knows,  and that she doesnt know  whether  
other franchisees may have been  able to get a refund from C. 
But as I said, there  are no guarantees of whether any chargeback  would be successful. 
HSBC did attempt it a number of times, without success. So I still think that, even if a claim 
had been attempted earlier it was unlikely to be successful. And the payment itself wasnt 
fraudulent, in that Ms W intended to make  it. The issue with it is that she doesnt  feel that the 
services and opportunities she received  for that payment were what she believed  she would 
be getting.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  it isnt my role or within my remit to comment  on 
Cs business practices; marketing or services, as C isnt a financial  business or financial 
service provider. So my decision only relates to HSBCs actions. 
This is a dispute between  Ms W and C as the merchant.  Our involvement wont  affect any 
rights she might have to take other  steps  to pursue C. Therefore its for Ms W to refer her 
concerns about  C to the relevant bodies that could look into these matters  further  for her if 
she wishes.
Its because of this that my findings remain as I set out in my second provisional  decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Ms W 
£300, as it has already  agreed.
Ref: DRN71206144Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7120614