K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy IGO4  Limited (trading as Wise Driving) cancelled his motor insurance policy 
and that hes been charged  for this. He wants his policy reinstated  or all the fees on the 
policy waived.
 
background
IGO4 said when Mr C took out the policy he was sent details of the cover and policy  terms. 
He paid a deposit and then instalments.  Mr C was made aware of a missed monthly direct 
debit payment and asked  to contact it to avoid  further action being taken. It said if he didnt 
contact it before a specified date the policy would be cancelled.  It says it also tried calling a 
number of times but couldnt get through. It also sent other correspondence in the post and 
by email. As it didnt  hear anything the policy was subsequently cancelled. But as it hadnt 
updated Mr Cs mobile number it agreed to waive the £75 cancellation fee as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
IGO4 accepts it didnt update  Mr Cs phone number. So, he wouldnt have received 
the calls it made  to him. But emails and a letter sent to him were correctly  addressed.  
Its not IGO4s fault if any werent received. And with one exception these emails  
werent returned. It made  multiple  and reasonable  attempts through  various  methods 
to contact Mr C. 
The policy was cancelled and the cancellation  fee correctly applied  in line with the 
terms and conditions  of the policy. IGO4 has also agreed  to waive  the £75 
cancellation fee. 
Its reasonable for it to pass the debt Mr C owes  to a debt collection agency.  But if 
hes unhappy with the way the debt collection agency has acted he should take that 
up with the agency.
Its up to IGO4 to decide how it charges for a policy and how much premium  it takes  
upfront. Thats not a matter we can comment on as its a business decision.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall I think  IGO4  made sufficient and reasonable attempts  to contact Mr C by email and 
letter about  the missed payment in January 2019  and warning  him his policy would  be 
cancelled if it didnt  hear from him to resolve  matters. Although  IGO4  didnt  update his phone  
number, as it shouldve  done, he was sent a number of emails  and a letter.  These were 
correctly addressed and dont  appear to have  been  returned. It isnt IGO4s fault if Mr C 
didnt receive some  of them.
As the January payment wasnt made  IGO4  acted reasonably, and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, by cancelling the policy and applying  the £75 cancellation charge.
Ref: DRN73973562IGO4 has accepted it shouldve updated  Mr Cs phone details. And in recognition  of this 
failing it agreed,  as a gesture of goodwill, to waive the £75 cancellation charge. I think  thats 
fair and reasonable. And Ive also seen nothing to suggest this was offered as an incentive  
to get Mr C to take out another policy as he suggests. 
IGO4 was also entitled to pursue the debt Mr C owed. And if hes unhappy with the actions 
of the debt collection agency  pursuing  him he should  take that up with the agency direct.
Taking everything into account  I think IGO4 has acted reasonably and in line with the policy 
term and conditions. 
Although I recognise  Mr Cs strength of feeling and frustration I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably require IGO4  to do or pay anything more  than its already done. And I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7397356