K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his store card repayments.
background
Mr T took out a store card in 1997. At the same time he took out a PPI policy  to cover his 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Mr Ts store  card. A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Mr T was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  or lost his job. The benefit  would  
continue to be paid until Mr T returned  to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld  because he thought  the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr T.
Mr T disagrees. He says the costs were not made  clear to him and he didnt  need  it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mr T applied for a store card.  Theres limited 
information available to me about  what happened  at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have  been  said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been  given.
Ive looked at the credit agreement that Mr T signed and I think it was clear the PPI was 
optional and that Mr T chose to take it.
I say this because  I can see that in the section that deals with PPI theres a tick next to the 
Yes to select PPI. Mr T has also signed the agreement for the store card itself. If Mr T 
hadnt wanted PPI, I think  he couldve chosen not to tick the relevant section of the 
agreement.
I dont think FICL advised Mr T to take PPI. What this means is that FICL didnt recommend 
PPI to Mr T, they just gave him information  about PPI. This information  needed  to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make  an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mr T 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to his account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Mr T needed to make  an informed choice  on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN71769542He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr T says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had no 
other means  of making his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer and also covered him if he lost 
his job. So I think  the policy  still wouldve  provided a useful benefit for Mr T in his 
situation and I cant see how knowing this information  wouldve changed his mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr T and he could  cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr T on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176954