K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained about  the customer service she has received from HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
when she visited one of their branches.
background
On 31 August 2018 Ms K went  into branch  to find out what had happened  to her statements 
for the period of 25 April to 25 May 2018  as she hadnt received  them.  
She says one of the advisors at HSBC told her to contact  the postal service  but wouldnt 
assist her in writing a letter. Then she was asked to leave the branch or the police would be 
called. She says when  she asked staff members their names they refused to provide them 
and removed their badges.  Ms K has said one member of staff made  discriminatory 
comments towards her and as a result another customer in branch also joined in. She feels 
HSBC has been  raciest and discriminatory towards her and because of this she wants  to be 
compensated.
HSBC has acknowledged  that they were unable to provide Ms K with the level of service she 
expected in regards to her statements. It explained  that Ms K hadnt received the statements 
on that occasion and wanted  the advisor in branch to print out the original statements. It has 
said it explained the advisor couldnt print out the exact original  statements  but it could print 
out her statements for that period. Ms K wanted  HSBC to provide her with a letter to confirm  
she never received  the statements. But HSBC has said as there was no evidence she hadnt 
received the statements it was unwilling  to do that. However it said it would confirm in writing 
they had to re-issue the statements.   
It went on to say that the advisor had told Ms K she would need to contact the postal service 
to ensure this didnt  happened again.  HSBC  has said Ms K was unhappy and began 
swearing at the advisor in the branch. It has confirmed the branch manager did confirm he 
would contact the police if she continued  to use that language.  In any event HSBC  has 
confirmed it could have  done more to help Ms K, such as getting  the statements delivered  to 
branch and arranging for a courier service to deliver the statements, so they could be 
tracked. Because of this HSBC provided  feedback to staff members and offered Ms K £100 
for the inconvenience  it caused.  
Ms K remained unhappy with the offer HSBC had made. So she bought her complaint  to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint  but she felt the offer HSBC  had made 
was fair and so her opinion was that HSBC didnt need to do anything further. Ms K 
remained unhappy and asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
I understand that Ms K feels very strongly about  the way she was treated by staff members 
at the HSBC branch and has asked our service to obtain CCTV footage to prove their 
behaviour was unacceptable. While we have asked for CCTV footage, HSBC were unable  to 
provide us with a copy of this, due to the period of time it holds the CCTV footage  for and I 
dont think this is unreasonable.  In any event, even if HSBC had provided CCTV footage, Im 
Ref: DRN76383352not convinced  it would  have proven that HSBC made discriminatory and racist  remarks to 
Ms K. I say this because usually CCTV footage doesnt usually record  audio.  
I have considered both parties recollection  of events.  HSBC has said that Ms K was 
unhappy with information it provided  and because of this began swearing at the advisors in 
branch. Ms K says the advisors were  unhelpful and were discriminatory towards her. The 
version of events are conflicting. So with that mind and without any further information, I 
cant say on the balance of probabilities that the staff members  were rude, racist or 
discriminatory towards Ms K. 
I appreciate that it was frustrating that Ms K didnt  received statements from HSBC  between 
25 April and 25 May 2018. But I can see that HSBC  has already accepted  it could have done 
more to assist Ms K in these circumstances.  As a result of this, HSBC has offered £100 for 
the trouble and upset it has caused  Ms K, apologised  and provided feedback to its staff 
members. This is in line with what I would  have asked it to do if it hadnt already paid Ms K 
this amount. So I wont be asking it to do anything  further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7638335