K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Arval UK Limited  unfairly charged her for damage to a car she 
returned at the end of a hire agreement.
The complaint has been brought on behalf  of Mrs G by her son, Mr G. 
background 
In November 2015 Mrs G entered  into a three year hire agreement for a car with Arval.  At 
the end of this agreement  a suitable  date for collection  of the car was arranged.  This was 
followed by Arval sending  an email confirming the date which  was in five days  time. A copy 
of Guide to Returning  an Arval Vehicle and a link to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) guidelines  which  provides an industry standard  for a vehicles 
condition on return to a leasing company  was sent to Mrs G.
On the day the car was collected Mrs G signed a Collection from Customer  Report by way 
of a handheld electronic device. Later on the car was then independently inspected and a 
report together with photos was prepared as to the condition of the car. This report  shows  
Mrs Gs signature  at the bottom.
Based on the condition  report  an invoice  for £310 for various bits of damage found on the 
car was sent to Mrs G. The car was found  to have scratches to the front bumper, a scratch  
to the right-hand rear door and that the left-hand front wheel had a scuff to its rim and 
spokes. The tyre sealant  was also found to be missing. This recorded  damage and the 
missing item were  all considered to be beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr G, on behalf of his mother, contacted Arval to dispute the charges. He said they were 
unfair and that he required two further quotes with regards  to the cost of the repairs.  He said 
he would  like an opportunity to carry out the repairs himself if these hadnt  yet been 
undertaken or to receive proof that they had.
Arval replied that as set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement it didnt necessarily 
carry out repairs once  the vehicle was returned  but it was still entitled to invoice for the 
damage if it was outside of the BVRLA  guidelines for fair wear and tear. It also said that the 
repair charges were in line with industry standard and there was no charge for VAT or labour  
included. 
Arval said that it didnt offer an opportunity for the hirer to repair  the car after collection as 
this would delay  the sale of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN77061372Mr G was unhappy at Arvals response.  He said that Mrs G hadnt signed  the inspection  
report and that her signature  had been fraudulently added to it. Arval  didnt  alter its decision 
and so Mr G made a formal complaint. He said they shouldve been  provided with the right to 
have the damage  repaired themselves. And that if Arval hadnt had the car repaired then this 
would show it had accepted the damage was fair wear and tear. Mr G pointed out that there  
were discrepancies  in the two reports prepared on the car. The collection report made no 
reference to any damage  and stated that the tyre sealant was present but the second 
inspection report had then noted the damage and the missing sealant.
Mr G said the inspection  report which set out the damage found  on the car had been 
purportedly signed  by Mrs G but this signature had been fraudulently added as she had 
never signed a report agreeing to the reported condition of the car. 
Arval investigated  Mr Gs complaint. It said the car had been independently inspected  after 
collection by a trained  BVRLA inspector. The charges were  for damage found to be outside 
fair wear and tear and had been correctly applied in line with the hire agreements  terms and 
conditions. The charges were consistent  with the information sent in the Returning your 
Vehicle guide  and Arvals  Pricing Matrix. It did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G complained to this service on behalf of his mother, Mrs G. Our investigator  didnt  
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that during a phone  conversation  
with Mr G, hed agreed that the damage to the car had been present. And when looking at 
the photos and the BVRLA  guidelines  she was satisfied that the recorded  damage was 
beyond fair wear and tear. Our investigator said she appreciated that Mr G thought that the 
process of charging  for it was unfair.
Our investigator said she thought Arvals process surrounding the collection  of the car, its 
inspection and any charges for damage  found  was clear. All the information had been  
provided with the collection  email  which  had set out that there was an option to repair the 
vehicle prior to collection, provided all the work was to a professional standard  and evidence 
of a warranty for that work  could  be provided. She said that once the car was collected there 
was no further  opportunity  for the hirer to arrange the repairs.
Our investigator said shed seen  that there was a discrepancy about whether the tyre sealant  
was missing in the two reports  provided by Arval.  However, during a phone call between  Mr 
G and Arval, Mr G had admitted that the tyre sealant  was in his garage.  So she thought the 
charge imposed for that was fair.
Our investigator said she appreciated that there  was strong feeling about the signature on 
the inspection  report not being  Mrs Gs but under the terms and conditions of the hire 
agreement if a report on the bodywork condition of the car isnt signed then Arval reserved 
the right to apply such charges pursuant to the agreement. So there was no advantage to 
Arval to fraudulently  add a signature. However, Mrs G would be able to make a complaint to 
the Police or Action  Fraud if she chose.
Mr G, on behalf of Mrs G, disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said they didnt 
accept our investigators findings.  He said that Mrs G and he had disagreed that the damage  
recorded was beyond fair wear and tear. He said hed read the BVRLA guidelines prior to 
the car being  collected and hadnt  thought it necessary to have the car repaired  before 
returning it. 
Ref: DRN77061373Mr G also said that he had only assumed the tyre sealant was in his garage during the 
phone call with Arval  as it had been reported as missing. But, as the signed  report indicated  
it was present at collection then hed assumed it had been located in the car. If Arval  was 
saying that its paperwork  was correct then the tyre sealant must  have been present.
Mr G said hed asked that Arval provide proof  that the value of the vehicle had been affected  
by the alleged damage and as this hadnt  been provided he could only assume Arval wasnt  
out of pocket. If there was no diminution of value then there could be no charges for the 
damage.
Mr G said Mrs G had only signed  the handheld  device at the time the car was collected. The 
second signature on the inspection report had been fraudulently  copied  over.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions  of the hire agreement  it sets out At the end of the Contract 
Term the Hirer will make the vehicle available for collection. A representative on behalf of 
Arval will complete an initial report on the mechanical and bodywork condition  of the 
Vehicle The Hirer or its representative will sign a copy of that report upon  agreement of its 
contents Arval  shall invoice the Hirer for the costs of repairs  (whether or not carried out) to a 
Vehicle returned  to Arval that is subject  to damage  which, in accordance with the BVRLA 
Fair wear and Tear Guide for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute unfair wear and 
tear and/or for the diminution of the value of the Vehicle:
opportunity to repair  
Ive seen that Mrs G, via Mr G, accepts that she received the collection email containing the 
guide about the process thats  followed  regarding  the inspection and possible invoicing for 
damage. I think this guide is clear about the process  for handing back  the car, about how the 
BVRLA guidelines are applied  and the costs  that will be incurred if damage is found  thats  
considered outside fair wear and tear. The email  also contained a link to the BVRLA  
guidelines for further information.
Mr G says that as hed considered the damage  to the car was fair wear  and tear and so 
didnt arrange  any repairs. That is of course his choice (and I accept he acted on the 
authority of Mrs G when making  that decision)  but I dont think I can reasonably  say there 
wasnt an opportunity  for Mrs G (via her son) to have  had the car repaired before it was 
collected. Ive also seen that Mr G had said he wouldve  liked to do the repairs  himself but if 
repairs are carried out then Arval is entitled  to request that a warranty is provided to cover  
that work.  This would mean home  repairs would be unlikely to be within the terms of the 
agreement and car would have to be repaired at a garage.  
Ref: DRN77061374the two reports
Ive seen the two reports  that were prepared about  the car. The first is called the Collection  
from Customer Report. This report doesnt set out any damage and provided photos of the 
keys, mileage and fuel gauge.  This report marks the tyre inflation kit as being  present (this is 
the same  as the tyre sealant). Mrs G says she signed this report via an electronic handheld 
pad.
The second  report  is the inspection report. This report sets out the damage found on the car 
together with the photos. It also notes  that the Tyre run flat applicator or sealant is 
missing. Mr G says on behalf of his mother that the items recorded were  all fair wear and 
tear and that Arval hasnt been  able to prove the tyre sealant was missing.  
damage to the car 
So looking  at the damage found:
the front  bumper  a scratch to the front bumper was reported in the inspection  report as 
being greater  than 25mm and through the top coat. I think  the photo provided  shows  a clear 
scratch and its size. Looking at the BVRLA guidelines these say that scratches  and 
abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable  provided no primer  or bare metal  is showing. I think  
the photo shows that metal is showing and so this scratch  is outside of fair wear and tear. 
The guide  to Returning your Car provided by Arval sets out that repairs to bumpers will be 
£80 for a refinish  and £160  if refinish and repair is required. Arval has charged Mrs G £80 
which I think is fair and reasonable and that Arval has applied its costs matrix as set out in its 
guidance.
the right rear door  a scratch  to the right door was reported in the inspection  report as 
being greater  than 25mm and through the top coat. The photo is again clear about  the 
scratches depth and size. Applying the BVRLA guidelines Im satisfied this is beyond fair 
wear and tear. Under the guide provided  by Arval repairs to this type of damage are £135  for 
a refinish and £165 for a repair and refinish. Arval has charged Mrs G £135 which  I think  is 
fair and reasonable.
front left wheel  a scuff on the rim and spoke  were reported in the inspection  report. The 
photo provided shows damage to the rim and spokes. The BVRLA guidelines say any 
damage to the wheel spokes and hub arent acceptable. Im satisfied the damage shown is 
outside fair wear  and tear. Under the guide provided by Arval it says £60 will be charged  for 
repairs to alloys and this is the amount charged  to Mrs G. I think  this charge is fair and 
reasonable.
missing item
I appreciate that theres a discrepancy  between the collection report  and the inspection 
report regarding the tyre sealant. One says it was there while the other  says its missing. Ive 
noted that its the inspection report that has stated it isnt there. Looking at these  two reports  
its the inspection  report that sets out the damage  to the car unlike the collection report. 
Ref: DRN77061375I am also aware that Mr G told Arvals  agent  during  a phone  call that this item was in his 
garage. I appreciate Mr G says he thought it was in the garage but I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr G was acknowledging it was missing. I dont think  I can reasonably say 
because this item isnt marked as missing in a report that didnt  include  any reference to 
damage that it was an error to say it was missing in the report which looked at the condition 
of the car. Im satisfied the £35 has been  properly charged to Mrs G.
fraudulent use of Mrs Gs signature   
Mrs G accepts she signed the collection report but says she didnt sign and agree  the 
condition of the car report. Im not a handwriting expert so I cant  say whether the signatures 
are different  or whether  the electronic signature  from the collection report has been 
transposed on to the condition report.  But I dont think Arval  would gain anything  from doing 
this. Under the arrangements  for returning the car whether the report is signed or not wont 
prevent Arval from invoicing for any damage  found,  nor would signing the report prevent a 
hirer from being able to challenge the costs if they decided later they wanted to do so. The 
lack of hirers signature also wouldnt prevent  the car from being inspected or collected. So I 
dont find the issue as to whether Mrs G signed  this report invalidates  its contents.
proof of diminution of value
Under the terms of the agreement Arval is entitled  to charge the hirer at the end of the 
contract for any damage  to the car thats  beyond fair wear  and tear. Im satisfied that when 
Mrs G returned this car there was chargeable damage. Arval is under no obligation to show 
that the damage negatively impacted on the sale price of the car.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied that Arval has acted fairly  in invoicing Mrs G £310 for 
the damage to the car and the for the missing  tyre sealant. Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7706137