K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc stopped  a transfer  she made online from her 
savings account.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. Although I agreed that 
Sainsburys hadnt done everything it should have done, I didnt think  Sainsburys should pay 
any more to Mrs E than it had already offered.
Mrs E responded to my decision with the below main points:
She feels that because the upper limit of how much she could transfer  in a single 
transaction wasnt stated in the terms and conditions of her account, then 
Sainsburys werent treating her fairly  or being transparent.
She was unaware  until she tried to make the transfer that there  was a limit to the 
amount she could transfer. And Sainsburys documents  led her to believe there  was 
no limit. Mrs E doesnt believe that the reference to Faster  Payment Service  (FPS) 
limits in the terms and conditions  is enough and should still be clearer.
Mrs E has made reference  to other  businesses that she says are clearer about how 
much can be transferred online.
Mrs E wasnt given  the opportunity to try and transfer the funds in a different way  
as suggested  in the provisional decision  other than trying  to transfer smaller sums 
of money.
Because she had failed  security,  she couldnt transfer any money at all until 
Sainsburys were able to identify  her again. Mrs E also wanted  confirmation that Id 
read the transcript of the call she had with Sainsburys.
Sainsburys didnt reply  to my provisional  decision  so I assume it has nothing  further  to add.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Es complaint.
Id firstly  like to thank Mrs E for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision.  And Id 
like to reassure her that Ive taken  everything shes said into account  when coming  to my 
decision on this complaint.
Based on Mrs Es response  to my provisional decision, my provisional findings  havent 
changed. But Id like to respond to some  of Mrs Es main points. And Ill do so below.
Ref: DRN75557322As Ive already  explained in my provisional decision, there is no requirement  for Sainsburys 
to say what the upper limit of a single transaction is. For me to be able to uphold  
Mrs Es complaint on this point, I have to find that Sainsburys have done something  wrong.  
There isnt anything in any of the relevant laws and legislation that says the upper payment 
limits should  be disclosed.  So I cant fairly say that Sainsburys has done anything wrong 
when it didnt say this in the terms and conditions of the account. I also cant  agree that 
because of this Sainsburys hasnt been  transparent, or treated Mrs E unfairly. Ive explained 
in my provisional decision why Sainsburys dont disclose the transfer limits in their terms 
and conditions and I think this is reasonable. 
When considering  this complaint, Ive looked at its individual merits. And so I havent 
considered the practices of other businesses. So it might well be that other  businesses  do 
disclose these limits. As Ive already said,  there  is no requirement for Sainsburys to give the 
limit. But the terms and conditions of the savings account does state  that there is a limit for 
transferring funds via Faster Payment Services (FPS)  which is the method of transfer Mrs 
E was attempting.
Mrs E was given the option of trying to transfer the funds over the phone.  But as she wasnt  
able to pass security, this wasnt possible  at the time she wanted to do it. I cant  say 
Sainsburys acted unfairly when it didnt transfer the funds during the call where  security  was 
failed.
I can confirm that I have read the transcript of the call Mrs E had with Sainsburys.
As Ive commented in my provisional decision,  Sainsburys didnt  do everything it should 
have when dealing  with Mrs E. And I appreciate that this situation must have been frustrating 
and inconvenient for her. But for the reasons  Ive already explained, I think  the £150 
compensation and an additional £6.45  (thats Sainsburys has already offered) for the 
unnecessary postage  costs Mrs E incurred is a fair way to settle  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75557323copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs E complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc stopped a transfer she made  online from her savings 
account.
background
In March 2018  Mrs E attempted to make an online  transfer of a substantial amount of money  from her 
Sainsburys savings account.
The transfer  was unsuccessful and Mrs E was asked to call Sainsburys to make the transfer over the 
phone  which she did.
Mrs E was asked  a number of security questions by the representative of Sainsburys, but she wasnt 
able to pass  the security  questions  over the phone.  Because of this Sainsburys asked Mrs E to send 
in some additional  information to verify her identity. Once Sainsburys received this information, it sent 
Mrs E a security code which should have  provided her access to the account. 
Mrs E called Sainsburys again to regain access to her account and send the funds, but Sainsburys  
said it couldnt  verify the account she was sending the funds to. So it asked her to send in a bank 
statement again. Mrs E then sent in the statement again and was later able to make the transfer.
Mrs E says shes unhappy because the terms and conditions of her Sainsburys account dont say 
theres a limit for the amount  that can be transferred online  in one transaction. She is unhappy  she 
wasnt able to pass security  over the phone and she was asked to provide additional  information  
and she incurred costs in posting  information  to Sainsburys. 
Mrs E also told us this situation caused her a lot of stress because the funds  she was trying to 
transfer were for a house purchase and she was worried that shed incur high interest charges  on 
each day she was late transferring the money to the receiver. Shes  also unhappy with the time it took 
for Sainsburys to respond to her complaint.
Sainsburys says it followed its usual  process. But it accepts that it shouldnt  have asked Mrs E to 
send in a bank  statement  when it already had a copy. It has offered to pay Mrs E £150 compensation 
for the inconvenience it caused her and an additional £6.45 for the cost of postage for the second 
bank statement she sent in.
Mrs E wasnt happy with this and referred her complaint  to our service. Our adjudicator  looked at the 
complaint and thought that Sainsburys should pay Mrs E an additional  £100 on top of the £156.45 it 
had already offered her. Sainsburys disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and didnt think  it 
should pay anything further to what it had already offered. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision  on the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently intend to uphold  Mrs Es complaint,  and Ill explain why.
The terms  and conditions of Mrs Es savings account dont say what  the upper limit is for an amount 
transferred online in one transaction. And I agree with Sainsburys that its okay for them not to set an 
upper limit out in the terms and conditions. The upper  limit to how much can be transferred changes. 
And the purpose of the upper limit is to flag transactions that may require further checks to ensure  
theyre genuine  the purpose of this is to protect both Sainsburys and its customers from fraud. 
Ref: DRN75557324There isnt anything  to say Sainsburys  must disclose  the upper limit on how much can be sent in one 
transaction. So I dont think its acted unfairly  here.
Based on the information Ive read and been told, Im satisfied  the amount Mrs E was trying to 
transfer was greater than the upper limit set by Sainsburys at the time.
The terms  and conditions that were applicable to Mrs Es savings account say Sainsburys could  ask 
Mrs E to make the payment  in a different way in these circumstances. Thats  what  it did, and Im 
satisfied that it told Mrs E this straight away. 
Sainsburys has a duty to protect  its customers accounts.  So its normal that security questions  will be 
asked before an account  is accessed.  I understand why Mrs E was likely  to have been frustrated 
when she failed the security questions and wasnt able to gain access to her account. But I think  that 
Sainsburys did the right thing and followed  its process when it asked her for further information to 
confirm her identity.  The security questions it asked  her were  based on information that could be 
found on her credit  report. It has since come to light that some of the information the credit reference 
agency held about Mrs E could be incorrect, and this could be why she wasnt able to pass security. 
But I cant fairly say that Sainsburys did anything wrong  here.
Sainsburys asked Mrs E to send in further information for her to be able to access  the account  after 
she had already sent this information. Sainsburys has agreed that it shouldnt  have done this 
because it already had this information on file - and as a result caused  delays in Mrs E gaining  access 
to her account. I need to decide if the compensation its offered Mrs E of £156.45 is a fair way to settle 
this complaint. And I think it is. 
Although Mrs E was inconvenienced  by Sainsburys  asking her to send in information it already had, I 
dont think this caused a big delay in her being  able to access  her account  or transfer the funds. Mrs E 
failed security on Thursday  8 March  2018; Sainsburys  received the documents Mrs E sent on Friday 
9 March 2018.  Mrs E called  Sainsburys on Saturday  10 March 2018  to complete the request and the 
funds were sent to her on Monday 12 March  2018. So the delay was around one working  day. Other 
than the cost of posting  documents  to Sainsburys, I dont think  Mrs E has lost out financially.
And because  of this, I currently think the £150 Sainsburys has already offered, plus £6.45 for the cost 
of postage is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning to uphold  Mrs Es complaint.
I now invite  Mrs E and Sainsburys to give me any further information they want  me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 23 May 2019.
Ref: DRN7555732