K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that the investment  bond  arranged by St. Jamess  Place  Wealth 
Management Plc in 2006 was too risky for her aims and objectives.
background
Her representative said:
All her previous investments were arranged by her ex-husband who was a high-
profile finance director and made all the financial decisions. So Mrs P considered  
herself to be a novice  investor
The fact find confirms  that she was under threat of redundancy, and was on a one 
year fixed-term  contact which wasnt renewed when it ended in 2007.  Mrs P says the 
advisor knew this because hed advised her before when he worked for a different 
business
She later started a zero hours contract which affected her income dramatically which  
resulted in her having to use her cash reserves to supplement  her income.  Its clear  
that the advisor documented her employment history incorrectly  as the funds 
contained equity  holdings from 70% to 92%.  £120,000 was too much of her money to 
invest
She wasnt prepared  to take excessive risk and wanted growth.  The investment 
carried a greater degree of risk that she was sufficiently made  aware of or was willing 
to take. It was surrendered in October 2008  to buy a rental  property
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt feel it should be 
upheld.
He noted that according to the fact find Mrs P had extensive investment experience  which 
included a number  of equity ISAs and bonds  held totalling over £600,000. She also had 
around £7,000  in stocks and shares and £160,000 in deposit savings. It was also recorded 
that after the investment shed be left with a £33,000  emergency  fund.
She also invested £40,000  in a unit trust with the same business in October  2006,  three  
months after the bond shes complained about.  This invested in the Recovery Fund and the 
International Fund and shed not complained  about this. This suggested  that Mrs P was 
willing to take a risk with her investments.
Even if Mr P had made  all the investment decisions,  these were  in Mrs Ps sole name so she 
would still have been aware of them and of the amounts invested. In his view a risk rating of 
medium wasnt wholly unreasonable given the extent  of Mrs Ps previous and existing 
investments, even if instigated by her ex-husband.
He also noted  that according to the fact find the main reason for investing  was that Mrs P 
was likely to be made  redundant in the following  year and wanted  an investment with the 
option of taking an income  if needed  without having  to declare it on her tax return.
As Mrs P seemingly  didnt  want  to use her existing investments  for income,  he considered  
the bond to be a suitable recommendation. 
Ref: DRN70456422Although Mrs P encashed the bond in 2008 to purchase of a buy-to-let property the 
adjudicator couldnt see that shed made the adviser aware she was considering  doing  this. 
He was therefore satisfied that Mrs P was happy to invest for at least  six years and in his 
view the bond  was suitable.
Mrs P didnt agree and made the following comments:
There were  many  inaccuracies in the adjudicators opinion  so it wasnt  the right 
outcome
She needed a regular  income desperately but the financial advisor  refused to help or 
to recognise her financial worries
At the time she was aged 51 and divorced. Her children were aged 20 and 23, both 
students living at home. She was looking after her elderly parents who both had 
serious health issues. They lived in Dorset an hour and a half drive  away  which made  
regular employment  impossible
Her background was in medicine not finance which  was why she went to a bank for 
help. The investments were recommended as suitable for her by an advisor who 
didn't have her best interests  in mind
It isnt true that she had around  £7,000 in stocks  and shares  and £160,000 in deposit 
savings or that she left with a £33,000 emergency fund.  After  paying legal fees for a 
long and acrimonious  divorce and paying  off debts there was little spare cash left
She has complained  about the £40,000  unit trust taken out in October 2006
The existing investments were in her name  for tax purposes but she had no idea 
about them
The note in the fact find that she was very happy  with investments and happy to 
continue with them and that she was she wouldnt need  to access  the money for at 
least six years was not her words  
She would  have needed  much  more than £500 a month to live on
In response the adjudicator said that there  was no indication from the fact find that this 
income was needed desperately. There was also no indication  that her children were still 
financially dependent or that she made the adviser aware she was caring  for her parents.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether they might  have done 
things differently (such as make a different recommendation).
Ref: DRN70456423In this context I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely  conclude  that the advisor 
did offer poor or unsuitable advice. 
Firstly, I think Mrs C had a responsibility to check the advisors record of her alleged income, 
assets, aims  and objectives, particularly if this was the first time she had initiated any of her 
investments and the obvious importance of ensuring her money was put to good  use.
So even if the record of her income and assets  etc. is inaccurate I do not think  St Jamess  
can be held responsible for her not correcting  this. Similarly, the advisor  records her 
overwhelming objective as to invest sufficient money  to try and be able to draw  an income of 
£5,000 a year from it, particularly after her likely  redundancy.
It seems  to me this was not a complicated summary of her objectives so even if Mrs C had 
not been involved in previous financial discussions I feel she was in a position to decide  if 
this accurately reflected her wishes i.e. that she was keen to invest  (put at risk) some of her 
money, and a sufficient  amount to try and meet her likely income needs.
In this context I do not think  it was unreasonable for the advisor to recommend investing  
£120,000, this being roughly the amount likely  to be necessary to produce sufficient income 
given investment returns at the time.
I also think that if Mrs C felt her family commitments  were a significant  factor  which impacted 
on her broad  objectives as described above then she should  have made  these clear  to the 
advisor. I have seen no persuasive evidence to conclude that she did.
Finally, I am satisfied that the recommended investments could  be broadly described as 
medium risk, and that this was not out of line with her likely view of risk from the limited 
information available.  
It is clear that Mrs C had a large  existing investment portfolio with significant risk exposure, 
and she is recorded  in the fact find as saying that she was very happy with her existing 
investments. While this does not mean  she necessarily wanted  to take a medium level of risk 
with this new £120,000 sum it does suggest  she was very comfortable with exposing  a large 
degree of her overall capital to investment risk.
I recognise that I have  not addressed all of Mrs Cs additional points. This is because  I agree 
with the adjudicators responses and because my responsibility is to decide  on the balance 
of probabilities  whether there is sufficient evidence to safely uphold  a complaint. In this 
case I dont believe there is.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7045642