K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from May 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Canada Square had nothing further to add. Mr T has made 
a further comment that I will address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr T has said that hes never done any applications 
online. As far as he can recollect,  the application  was done in an office in the town  centre 
where someone else put everything into the computer.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Mr T originally  thought that he had taken out the policy  
by post, so Im not persuaded that he has any clear recollection of the sale.  The business is 
an online  bank only, so it doesnt have any branches.  Although it was possible to apply by 
post or phone, the evidence provided by Canada  Square in this case  shows  that it was 
applied for online. Its possible that Mr T asked someone to do the internet application on his 
behalf. But if that was the case, he would still have  been responsible for the application 
being filled in in the way that he wanted  including the purchase of PPI.
The sale was a long time ago, and applying for a credit card isnt a particularly memorable 
event, so Im not surprised Mr M has no recollection  of it. Having considered  Mr Ts recent  
submission, it hasnt changed my mind. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75883002COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T applied  for the card and PPI in 2003 using an online application process.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada  Square  disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr T thought  that he had made  the application  by post. Hes also said that he was given the 
impression that he had to agree to the PPI in order for the credit card application to be agreed.  But as 
Ive already mentioned, Mr T actually  applied online. So its clear  that Mr T has no recollection of the 
sale, which is not surprising given  how long ago it took place.
Ive seen a screenshot  of the application process that Mr T would have  gone through. There was a 
page for PPI with the heading: Protect  yourself against the unpredictable with our Egg Card 
Repayment Protection. Following a brief description  of the policy and its cost, it then said:
Please choose the following:-
Yes, I want to protect my repayments
No, I understand it is my responsibility  to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my 
job
Both options had equal prominence  and neither  had been  pre-selected.  I think Mr T would have 
understood from the wording  and layout of the web page that the PPI was optional. It seems to me 
that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer  remembers doing so.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mr T to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met his needs.  
But it did need  to provide him with enough information to make an informed  decision about whether  or 
not it was right for him.
Mr Ts employer  would have provided sick pay of three months full pay, followed by three months 
half pay. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and potentially  for longer than Mr T 
would have received full pay for. And Mr T didnt have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back 
on. So I think  that Mr T had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because Mr T was 63 at the point of sale. The policy provided  
cover up to the age of 65. Therefore, as Mr T would  only have been able to benefit from the policy for 
a relatively short period  of time, our adjudicator didnt think that Mr T would  have bought the policy if 
this part of the policy  terms had been brought to his attention. This is where my view differs  from that 
of our adjudicator.
I agree that information about the policy ending  at 65 might influence the decision of people  
approaching that age and they might conclude  that they didnt have much of a need for the policy 
Ref: DRN75883003under those circumstances. And if the sale had taken place in a meeting, I would have expected an 
adviser to point out this information.
However, in the particular  circumstances  of this case, I have  currently concluded that Mr T would  
probably have acted  the same,  and taken out the policy anyway.
Mr T might not have known everything about the policy, but he did know something about it  that it 
would protect  his credit card repayments if he was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness or if he 
was made redundant.  Ive already concluded  that he decided to take the PPI out, so it seems that he 
wanted protection for his repayments  and actively chose it.
Upon taking out the card, Mr T took advantage of an interest  free offer and did two balance  transfers 
of £1,500  and £1,000. With fees, he was immediately  almost up to his opening credit limit of £3,000.  
So he had a balance  to protect right from the start.
I agree with our adjudicator that, because  of Mr Ts age, within a few months of taking out the policy 
he would have been unable to benefit from the maximum  12 months of cover per claim. But I think  Mr 
T likely  wanted  the cover to protect his outstanding balance on the card.  Mr T cancelled the credit 
card in October 2004, before his 65th birthday, so he would  have been able to benefit from the policy 
for the entire time that he held the card.
Its possible that Canada Square didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly  about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected  by any of those  things.  
As I think that he had an interest  in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont think that further 
information would have caused him to change his mind.
Overall, looking at the evidence,  and having  carefully considered the particular circumstances  of this 
case, I do not currently conclude  that the PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588300