K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund him for transactions  he didnt 
authorise.
background
After a night out, Mr M realised hed either lost or had his Barclays  debit  card stolen. He 
thought this had happened on the way out to where  hed been going but he had cash  to 
spend so wasnt  immediately concerned. He called Barclays the following day to report  his 
card as missing. Barclays re-issued his debit  card.
A bit later Mr M realised  there were  a number of transactions  on his account he didnt 
recognise. He reported these  as fraudulent to Barclays. Barclays  decided  Mr M should be 
held liable  for these  amounts as they couldnt  see any time his PIN could have been 
compromised when  his card went missing. Barclays also noticed  this theft had only occurred 
within two days of Mr M receiving a large amount of money into his account.
A considerable amount  of money  was involved. Mr M brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This clearly showed that at the time of some of the 
transactions, Mr M was many miles away so couldnt physically have made  these himself. 
He also considered whether Mr M may have given his card to someone else but thought  on 
the evidence we had this seemed unlikely. Partly  as cash machine transactions  had taken 
place when clearly  somebody was unaware of the withdrawal limit on Mr Ms account. And 
transactions had continued to be attempted after Mr M had reported  his card missing.  It was 
also obvious the use made  of Mr Ms card  including balance enquiries and attempted  
transactions which had been declined  mirrored what we do often see when fraud  takes 
place.
Our investigator felt it was possible Mr M had mis-recalled exactly  what  happened  in the 
early morning of 23 December 2017.  There were  three cash machine withdrawals early  that 
morning around  the time and place Mr M would  have been trying  to catch a train home. He 
thought it was possible Mr M could have taken  out cash  to help him get home.  It was after 
his card was stolen. This scenario  meant  there was a clear  point of compromise for the PIN.
He asked Barclays to refund  £5,311.17  to Mr M; add 8% simple  interest  to that amount  and 
pay some  additional  compensation.  Barclays didnt agree with this outcome. Theyve asked 
an ombudsman to consider Mr Ms complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive also written to Barclays in the meantime to explain that Id reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator. I got no response.
Ref: DRN71042752When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  and Ive covered these off in the decision Im making here.  So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr M have told us.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  view of 3 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything  
that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  form the basis  of my 
decision. I can reassure  Mr M and Barclays Ive read the file thoroughly.  
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Theres no dispute the evidence shows Mr M was not in the same location as his 
debit card during  the period of the majority  of the disputed transactions,  i.e. the 
morning of 23 December  2017. Barclays own online banking log has demonstrated 
this to be the case.
Mr M was in the same location  as his debit  card in the very early hours of 
23 December. There were  three cash withdrawals  of £100 made at a cash  machine 
at 01:48 hours. At one stage  Mr M was thinking  of getting  a cab home so its possible 
he got some money to do this. In the end he hung  around  the station and got an early  
train home instead.
Following this there were three further  attempts to withdraw cash  at the same  cash  
machine two minutes later which were all declined. Two minutes is a relatively long 
time in waiting around to use a cash machine again so I believe its unlikely those 
later attempts  were Mr M.
I cant say for sure whether the further two successful £100 withdrawals at 01:48 and 
01:49 were Mr Ms but on the balance of probabilities  Ive decided thats most likely.
The use that happens after the cash withdrawals  follows a pattern we often  see with 
fraud. Balance enquiries would have confirmed there was a considerable amount of 
money in Mr Ms account and the fraudsters continued to check  this and whether 
they could use the card after some  transactions  including attempted  cashbacks  
were declined.
This would include  attempted  use of the debit card once Mr M reported it lost. I can 
see that happened here.
Our investigator considered the issues  around  whether Mr M was grossly  negligent. 
Like him, I cant see theres been  any evidence to suggest this. Mr M had used the 
PIN on this account for a number of years and had no reason to write it down.
Whats more likely is that using the cash machine whilst possibly being less than 
totally sober meant Mr M didnt notice someone  looking  over his shoulder and then 
taking his debit  card.
Mr M has explained hed taken out a loan for £6,000 just a few days before either to 
buy another work vehicle or get his existing one repaired. A direct debit for this loan 
Ref: DRN71042753was set up and the first payment came out of Mr Ms account on 19 March 2018  so I 
see no reason to doubt this explanation.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr M in this case) authorised 
these transactions.  Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of 
Mr Ms card and PIN, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster 
may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Ms card and PIN without his consent. Ive thought about the different scenarios that 
could have happened here.  As explained above, I believe there is a point of compromise.
Overall I dont believe Mr M made  or authorised the transactions so Barclays will need to 
refund the disputed  payments.
This case has taken a long while to resolve and so like our investigator I believe its fair and 
reasonable Barclays pays Mr M £250  for the inconvenience caused. He immediately  lost 
money that hed hoped to use and this loss would have caused him financial  difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to:
Refund Mr M £5,311.17 for transactions he didnt authorise;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 23 December  2017 until the date of 
settlement;
Pay him £250 for the inconvenience caused;  and
Ensure theres no adverse data on his credit record resulting from the impact of these 
transactions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104275