K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund a series of cash  machine 
withdrawals which she says she neither made herself nor authorised  anyone  else to make.   
background
Miss M has two bank accounts,  one with Barclays and one with another bank. In September  
and October 2018  the bank card linked  to her Barclays account was used  over 13 days  to 
make several cash machine withdrawals overseas. There were also some declined  attempts 
to withdraw cash and two declined  purchases  in the UK before the disputed withdrawals 
began. 
Miss M contacted Barclays in early October to say that she hadnt made the withdrawals 
herself, or allowed anyone else to use her card. Barclays applied  a temporary credit to her 
account, but reversed it after further investigation. It then closed Miss Ms account.  
Miss M complained to this service. She said shed been in the UK at the time of the 
withdrawals and had never visited the country  where they took place. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ms complaint, but concluded that the withdrawals 
had been made by someone acting with her consent. She didnt therefore recommend that 
Barclays refund them.  Miss M didnt  accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did.
The banks records show that the electronic chip embedded  in Miss Ms card was read when 
each cash machine withdrawal was made.  Thats very persuasive evidence  that the genuine 
card was used, rather than a copy or clone of it. Cloned cards  can be made  relatively easily 
by copying data from the cards magnetic stripe onto a different cards  magnetic stipe,  but 
copying a chip is a different matter entirely.  Im satisfied therefore  that the genuine card was 
used. 
Im satisfied too that the correct PIN was used  for each withdrawal. The PIN isnt stored  in 
unencrypted form on the card itself and its unlikely  that someone  who had the card without 
Miss Ms authority would  have been able to guess it. They  might  have seen Miss M use it, 
but I think thats unlikely  she hadnt made a payment authorised by PIN for some  weeks  
before the disputed  withdrawals began. 
I must therefore consider how Miss Ms card came to be overseas and in possession of 
someone who knew her PIN. She says she was at home in the UK at the time. I accept that. 
Her passport doesnt indicate any travel  to the country where her card was used (as it would 
have done); theres also evidence that her bank card connected to her other card was used 
in her home town at the time. Im satisfied that Miss M didnt carry out the withdrawals  
herself. 
Seven days and four days before the disputed withdrawals began,  there were two attempts 
to use her card in the UK. Both were made near Heathrow airport; Miss M lives in a different 
Ref: DRN76498522part of the UK. It seems  likely therefore  that her card wasnt  in her possession  even  then. 
Had someone had her card without  her knowledge  then, I might have expected them to try to 
use it again more  quickly  not to wait several days  and take a flight before using it abroad. 
I note too that Miss M said she found out there was a problem with her card when she was 
trying to make a payment. That is, she had the card some time after the disputed  
withdrawals. In my view however its extremely unlikely that anyone  would have taken Miss 
Ms card without her authority, found  out what the PIN was, taken it abroad to use it and then 
returned it to her when  they got back to the UK. So, whilst I accept that Miss M didnt carry 
out the disputed withdrawals herself,  I believe they were  made  by someone who had her 
card with her knowledge and consent. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require 
Barclays to make a refund. 
Miss M was also unhappy that Barclays closed her account without providing reasons. Given  
the circumstances Ive described above,  however, I dont believe that was unreasonable.         
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss M to accept  or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7649852