K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds  service  in connection with his 
motor insurance policy.  
background 
Mr A was unhappy with how Admiral  dealt with things after he had a car accident and his car 
was damaged. He said that the accident  was the other drivers  fault.  But the other  driver 
disputed liability and wouldnt co-operate with Admiral. 
Admiral were willing to repair Mr As car if he claimed under his policy  and paid his policy 
excess, but he didnt want to do that. Admiral offered  him compensation of £20 for not 
keeping him updated but he didnt think this was enough. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  be upheld because  Mr A hadnt  made  a 
claim, but Admiral had done what they could to help him do that. So theyd acted reasonably  
and their offer of compensation was fair. Mr A didnt agree  and so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator explained,  we dont decide who is liable for an accident, as thats  a matter 
for the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this kind is simply to investigate  whether an 
insurer has acted fairly  and reasonably, and in line with their policys  terms and conditions 
when they made their decision  as regards who was responsible.  
In this case Admiral didnt make any decision about  responsibility, as Mr A didnt want to 
make a claim. Mr A could only give Admiral the other drivers  name  and phone  number,  not 
his car registration. I can see from Admirals  records that they contacted the other  driver.  But 
the other driver said that the accident was Mr As fault and they wouldnt co-operate  with 
Admiral or give Admiral their car registration number. Admiral explained to Mr A that without 
that they couldnt claim against the other  driver. They  also explained to Mr A that he could 
make a claim and theyd repair his car but hed still have to pay Admiral his policy  excess up 
front. Thats normal with insurance claims and thats what Mr A had agreed to under his 
policy. In some circumstances an excess is later reclaimable from the other driver, but as the 
other driver denied liability and they didnt have  enough information about  him or his car, that 
was unlikely here. 
I can see that Admiral made  several  calls to Mr A checking if he wanted to make  a claim. Its 
clear they were willing to help him do that. They also tried to find out more information about  
the other driver and his car, including liaising with Mr As legal adviser. But there was a limit 
to what they could do.
Admiral also offered Mr A compensation  of £20 to resolve his complaint and I think  thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. He said he couldnt afford  to repair  his car himself or to pay 
the excess and make a claim so that Admiral  would repair it under his policy. And he said 
that the situation with his car was making him depressed. 
Ref: DRN78730742I do see that this is a very unfortunate  situation for Mr A. And it was unfair on him that the 
other driver wouldnt co-operate. But I am looking  only at whether Admiral  did anything  
wrong. 
They cant  be expected  to force a third party to give them information, or to admit liability  for 
an alleged  incident.  All they can do is deal with a claim if one is made  to them.  Here  Admiral 
explained to Mr A how they would deal with a claim  if he did make one. So I think theyve 
acted fairly  and reasonably and dont see that they can be expected to do any more.  Mr A 
can choose whether  to make a claim and deal with it as theyve said, or choose not to make  
a claim for it under his policy and may decide to pay for the repairs  himself. But I dont think  
that Admiral have done anything wrong  and so I dont require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873074