K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt adequately  repair  a pipe after she 
made a claim on her home insurance policy.
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 22 October 2019.  A  copy of that provisional decision is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
UKI has confirmed it received my provisional  decision but hasnt  provided  a response. 
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision and confirmed the dates shed made payments for 
the repair work, a copy of which  has been provided to UKI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As no new evidence has been provided I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  decision  and still think Mrs Ss complaint should 
be upheld. 
Although UKI had provided some  reasons  why it thinks it could have declined Mrs Ss claim, 
I dont think it has provided sufficient evidence that it could have relied on those exclusions. 
And once  it accepted Mrs Ss claim it had an obligation to complete an effective and long-
lasting repair. From the evidence Ive seen this would have meant  renewing  at least  half the 
pipe.
So UKI should reimburse Mrs S for what she paid for replacing half the pipe, the Section 50 
and the road closure. It should  also pay her 8% simple interest on this amount from the date 
the payments  were  made  until the date of settlement.  And pay her a total of £900  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she experienced. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right U K Insurance  Limited  should:
Reimburse Mrs S £5,758.08. 
Pay 8% interest on the above from the date Mrs S paid it until the date of settlement*.
Pay a total of £900 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  Mrs S 
experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Ref: DRN72179962*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72179963provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt adequately  repair  a pipe after she 
made a claim on her home insurance policy.
UKI has appointed  representatives to deal with the claim on its behalf  where  I refer to UKI 
this includes its representatives. 
background
Mrs S was contacted by her local water authority (the water authority) in September  2016 
and advised there was a leak in the pipes that service her property.  As the pipes were  Mrs 
Ss responsibility to maintain she contacted UKI to make a claim for accidental  damage to 
underground pipes.
UKI attended shortly  after and concluded  there were a number of ongoing leaks  and had 
been several previous leaks and repairs to the pipe.  UKI initially  declined the claim, because 
it said damage caused by wear and tear was excluded from cover.  
Mrs S challenged this decision and said she thought there  must  have  been  some physical 
damage to the pipe to have caused  the leak.  UKI explained that it would reconsider its 
decision if Mrs S were  to provide an experts report on the cause  of the damage.
Mrs S says she obtained three quotes  for the work from different contractors.  Which  she told 
UKI at the time all advised  the entire  pipe would need to be replaced to prevent any further 
leaks.  
UKI changed its position in January 2017 and agreed to locate and repair the leak. But it 
said the pipe was deteriorating  and there  would likely be further leaks in the future which  
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy. It also offered Mrs S £200  to apologise for incorrectly  
declining the claim and the customer service  shed received up to that point. 
UKI appointed a different  contractor which attended in February 2017 and investigated the 
possibility of tapping  into a new supply. But the water  authority explained  this wasnt  possible 
and the pipe would either need to be repaired or replaced. The section of pipe that Mrs S is 
responsible for is over 50 metres long. UKI decided to excavate half way down the pipe to 
find and repair the leak. UKIs notes  from March 2017 say We recommend excavating  at the 
half way point and proving  which way the leak is and renewing that part of the service.
By April 2017 the work hadnt started  and Mrs S was concerned  about the delay. 
After a number of chasers Mrs S was advised that the job hadnt been  processed by UKIs 
contractor. She made UKI aware that the water board had given her until the end of June 
2017 to complete the repairs or she would be charged for any wasted water from the 
ongoing leak. Mrs S was paid three additional compensation payments of £50, £100 and 
£150 In May and June for the delays and customer service issues. 
UKI arrived to begin work on 10 July 2017 but needed to close her road to complete the 
repairs and hadnt  applied to the local authority  for the necessary permission to do so in 
time. So an emergency road closure was put in place. Mrs S said this meant her neighbours 
Ref: DRN72179964werent given adequate  notice of the disruption and this caused  her embarrassment and 
inconvenience as she had to visit all her neighbours to apologise. She also says the 
contractors didnt have  the sufficient staff or equipment  to complete the job. And a lot of the 
equipment that was present wasnt suitable  for the job.  
When the repair was completed,  rather than replacing half the pipe as Mrs S thought  had 
been agreed UKI had inserted additional  pipe to bypass  the leak.  Mrs S says there was 
around 5 metres of additional pipe used for the repair.  
Mrs S complained to UKI she said she didnt think the repair  job completed was sufficient 
and that UKI should cover  at least the cost of repairing half the pipe. She also said that if UKI 
thought the repair work  was sufficient it should  continue to offer cover for any future leaks.  
UKI didnt  agree. It said that it was only required to repair the leak and the work it had done 
had stopped the leak. So it didnt  agree  to complete any further work. It also maintained  its 
position that any further leaks wouldnt be covered. 
In August  2017  Mrs S was again told by the water  board there was a leak.  Mrs S contacted 
UKI and asked it to complete further repairs. UKI didnt agree it was responsible for 
completing any further repairs. Mrs S raised  a complaint UKI and also arranged and paid for 
the repair herself. 
UKI sent Mrs S a final response in September 2017. It said it didnt think it needed to do 
anything further  but offered £200 for the delays she experienced.  
In November 2017 Mrs S contacted UKI again  to complain. UKI didnt change its response  
and said it couldnt  help Mrs S with any additional repair costs shed incur to fix the second  
leak. So she referred  her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator concluded that UKI had traced and repaired  the leak which  is what it was 
required to do under the policy.  She explained that this approach  was agreed with the water 
board so it was reasonable for UKI to take the action it did to repair  the leak.  So she didnt  
recommend the complaint be upheld.
UKI accepted her assessment  but Mrs S didnt. In response she said:  That the works  that 
were carried  out from 10 July were never going to resolve the underlying  problem, that a 
quick patch repair was known by all parties  not to have been  sufficient, that the actual repair  
carried out was not in accordance with independent  expert reports  and was not what  had 
been agreed.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The terms and conditions  of the policy say: We will pay for physical damage to underground 
drains, pipes, cables and tanks which you are legally responsible for and which provide 
services to or from your home.
But theres also an exclusion  meaning  damage caused by wear  and tear isnt covered under 
the policy. UKI originally  said that the damage  was caused by wear and tear and so declined 
the claim.  
Ref: DRN72179965A principle of insurance is that its down to the insured  to show that an event  covered  by the 
policy has taken place.  But if an insurer is going  to rely on an exclusion then it needs to 
show that exclusion applies. I can see there  is reference to previous leaks  and the water 
board has also confirmed there were previous leaks along the pipe, which  could suggest that 
the pipe was deteriorating due to wear and tear. But UKI hasnt  provided  any photos or 
description of the pipe to show why it reached  the conclusion that the damage  was caused 
by wear and tear. And theres no information  on file confirming what caused the previous 
leaks. 
Ive spoken with Mrs Ss contractor who completed  the repair work on the pipe. He explained 
that he thought  the damage to the pipe was caused  by traffic crushing the pipe. He 
explained the pipe was flattening and stones  were pushing into the pipe and piercing it. He 
concluded this was likely the cause of all the leaks along the pipe rather  than wear  and tear.
I put Mrs Ss contractors comments to UKI. It didnt think it needed to do anything  else and 
said;
 
We agreed to fix the leak but made it clear to the customer that no further leaks would
be repaired  as there is no cover for this. I have reattached  the picture of the road over the 
pipes and cannot agree  the damage to the pipes was the result  of heavy traffic. But if it were,  
then surely its impact to the pipe - that resulted in several leaks would have been detected  a 
few leaks prior. Whilst we should have stood  by our repudiation decision,  we did not mislead 
the customer with our decision to repair the leak, all along she was advised  the issue with 
the pipe was wear  and tear and a complete renewal of her mains pipe was not covered by 
her insurance as no insured peril has been  identified.
Mrs Ss contractor  also wasnt  able to provide any substantial evidence to support his 
conclusion. And given the lack of evidence to support  UKIs  or Mrs Ss contractors  opinion  I 
dont find either explanation  particularly  persuasive.  But Ive also seen a note on UKIs  
system which suggests the damage could have  been caused by ground shift. 
As I explained above its for UKI to show that an exclusion  applies if it wants  to rely on it and 
I dont think its done that here. Two potential  causes  of damage which could be covered by 
the policy have  been put forward  and I dont think UKI has provided sufficient evidence to 
discount either of those  causes or show that the wear and tear exclusion can be fairly 
applied. On the balance of probabilities I dont think UKI had sufficient evidence  to decline 
the claim.  And it seems UKI originally agreed  its letter to Mrs S in January 2017 says Ive 
looked into this for you and agreed with our claims department that we don't have enough 
evidence to decline the claim. 
As UKI didnt have  enough evidence to apply the exclusion and decline the claim it was 
required to accept the claim and complete a long-lasting and effective repair.  And I dont 
think it can avoid this obligation by explaining to Mrs S that the pipe would leak again. From 
what Ive seen it seems UKI was aware  that unless it renewed at least half of the pipe it was 
likely to leak again. Its notes following an inspection of the pipe said:  
The only option  will be a renew or part renew with a full road closure. We recommend 
excavating at the halfway point and proving  which way the leak is and renewing  that part of 
the service. 
And an additional note in July 2017 which says:
Ref: DRN72179966I have spoken with our contractors who state they have not advised the insured that a full 
renewal is necessary and believe they can resolve the issue  by renewing  around 34m of the 
pipework through  an open excavation.
But UKI decided  to take a different approach  to repair the leak:
 I have  spoken with the engineers who are going to dig at the centre  of the lane to ascertain 
which half of the system  the leak is on and they will then be renewing/taking the supply 
around the leaking section of the system using blue MDPE pipe. This plan was drafted  
following the recent attendance with the Water  Board. 
I havent seen  anything which explains why UKI concluded this method of repair would be 
sufficient given all the previous inspections  concluded at least half of the pipe would need  to 
be replaced. I also havent seen any evidence to show that UKI had confirmed there was 
only one leak on the pipe. The notes from the initial  inspection suggest there were a number 
of leaks along  the pipe and I cant see how this repair on its own would have addressed that. 
The second  leak was discovered quite soon  after the original was repaired by UKI. I havent 
seen any evidence to confirm when this leak actually started or that it wasnt there after UKI 
completed its repair. There  is a note on file which says They  are no longer  going to continue  
to excavate and complete a part renewal as they have tested the supply and the repair is 
holding.  But this suggests to me the repair carried out to the pipe was holding rather than 
there were no longer  any leaks  along the pipe. And I havent  seen  any evidence to confirm 
what tests were completed or what the results  were.  
Ive also been  provided notes from the Water Board which on 19 September 2017 say 
occupier of property  has had insurance approved repair carried out on private  supply pipe 
unfortunately there appears to be more  than one leak
Overall Im not satisfied  the repair completed  by UKI actually stopped  all the leaks.  But even 
it did I dont think this was sufficient to complete a long-lasting and effective repair  because  
within a few weeks the pipe was leaking again.
From the evidence Ive seen I think UKI would have  had to renew half the pipe to complete a 
long-lasting and effective repair. So I think it should now reimburse  Mrs S for the cost of that 
repair. As Mrs S paid for the whole  pipe to be renewed I think UKI should reimburse her for 
half what she paid for that repair. The invoice provided shows  Mrs S paid £7,675.20 for 
repairing the pipe,  so UKI should reimburse her £3,837.60. 
The invoice also shows Mrs S paid £1,920.48  for the road closure and Section 50 
(application to complete work  on a public road). I think had UKI completed the repair as it 
should have it would  have incurred these  costs so it should cover them in full. 
So I think UKI should pay Mrs S £5,758.08 to settle the claim. It should also pay 8% interest  
on this amount from the date she paid until the date shes reimbursed. 
Ive also thought about how UKI has handled the claim overall and the impact this has had 
on Mrs S. The leak was first reported in September 2016 and UKI didnt complete its initial  
repair until July 2017. During this time Mrs S had to chase UKI regularly for updates and 
explanations of next steps, and was provided  incorrect information on a number of 
occasions. The work should  have  completed  much  sooner than it was and Mrs S has 
Ref: DRN72179967explained the lack of notice regarding the road closure caused some upset with her 
neighbours. 
I dont think what UKI did to repair the leak was sufficient and meant Mrs S had to address 
further issues with the pipe a short time later, which she shouldnt have had to do and 
caused her distress and aggravation. From  what I can see UKI has paid Mrs S £700  
compensation so far and I think this amount should  be increased to £900 in total. 
my provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I receive I intend  to uphold this complaint and direct 
U K Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs S £5,758.08 
Pay 8% interest on the above from the date Mrs S paid it until the date of settlement.
Pay a total of £900 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  Mrs S 
experienced. 
Ref: DRN7217996