K821x#15complaint
Miss Gs complaint is that she was given unsuitable advice by Swan Securities and 
Investments, an appointed representative  (AR) of Kession Capital limited.  She says she 
was advised to invest in Aegis Power bond   a high risk investment.
background
Miss G first became aware of Swan and Aegis bond  from an advert on a web site.  She 
replied to this advert and had a number of conversations with an employee of the AR.  As a 
result of these conversations Miss G invested around £35,000 in the Aegis bond.  Miss G 
considers she was advised  to make the investment.
Kession did not agree.   It said that under the terms of the AR agreement the AR was only 
authorised to advise  professional clients and eligible counterparties  not retail investors 
such as Miss G.  On that basis  Kession is not responsible for any advice that the AR may 
have given.
Miss Gs complaint was looked at by an investigator.   It was his view that this is a complaint 
that we can look at and that it should  be upheld.  
Whilst it is disputed whether any advice was given,  he was satisfied that the AR promoted 
and arranged the purchase  of the bond   which is a regulated  activity.   Whilst the AR 
agreement didnt allow the giving of advice  to retail clients it did authorise  the promotion  and 
arranging of deals  in investments.  So in promoting  and arranging  the investment in the 
Aegis bond the AR was acting with the authority of Kession  and so Kession is responsible.
Having considered a script approved by Kession describing the key features  of the Aegis  
bond the investigators view was that it wasnt fair, clear  and not misleading.  In  his view it 
was reasonable  to assume that the employee of the AR would have followed the agreed 
script.  He said that if the true nature of Aegis had been made known to Miss G, she would 
not have made the investment.
Kession did not agree.   It made the following points:
It reiterated its view that advice had not been given.
If advice had been given it was not something  the AR agreement  authorised  the AR 
to do.  As set out in section 39 of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000, a 
principal is only responsible for the actions of its AR for which  responsibility has been 
accepted.  
There is no evidence that the script referred to was used  in the conversation  with 
Miss G.  In any event Miss G had researched the investment  herself.
The redress proposed  by the investor  did not take into account the interest paid to 
Miss G.
Later investments  made by Miss G show she was prepared to take risks with her 
investments. 
Miss G had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN75667302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
I accept that the AR agreement did not authorise  the AR to give investment advice to retail 
investors.  The relevant  phone calls between Miss G and the AR were not recorded.  So it is 
not possible to know with certainty  what  was discussed.  There can be a fine line between 
the giving  of advice and the provision of information  a distinction that an inexperienced 
investor might not appreciate.  So based on the available evidence I cant  safely  conclude  
that Miss G was advised to make the investment.  However, I consider it reasonable to 
assume that, even  if it did not amount to advice, it was what the AR told her about the bond 
that persuaded Miss G to make the investment.  
The AR agreement  authorised the AR to promote to and arrange investments  for retail 
investors.  Schedule  6 of the agreement  says:
The AR is permitted to promote to retail clients and arrange business on their behalf.
Schedule 6 of the AR agreement also said: 
The Handler must follow  a script that is factually based and will be given  a list of Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) which he/she  can answerThe script and the FAQs must be 
previously approved and authorised by the Appointer (Kession).
As it was a contractual  requirement for the ARs employees to follow a pre approved  script I 
consider it reasonable to assume this this process  was followed.  Kession did approve at 
least one script for use by the AR.  This script  would appear to have been  prepared before 
the conversation  between  Miss G and the AR.  The exchange which  the Aegis bond was 
expected to be listed on had changed since the first script.   The content of the script  was a 
description of the key facts about  Aegis and the bond  which would have been taken from 
the information memorandum.   As there was only one information memorandum it is hard to 
see why a later script  if one was in fact was produced - would have been materially 
different. 
So I agree with the investigator that it is reasonable to assume that the script he referred to 
formed the basis of the conversation between the AR and Miss G. 
Like the investor I am satisfied that the description  of the Aegis bond in the script did not 
meet the regulatory requirement to be fair, clear  and not misleading.  In the script Aegis was 
presented as a well established  company with an existing portfolio of revenue generating 
assets.  This  was not true with the company  having only an intention to build assets  with the 
proceeds from the bond issue.   In my view a company  that is not established and had not 
generated any revenue is a far different  proposition to investing  in a well established 
company  not least in the significantly higher level of risk associated with it.
It seems  probable that the misrepresentation of the investment was carried  out to make it 
more attractive to potential investors.   I consider it more likely than not that if Miss G had 
known the true nature of the Aegis investment she would  not have gone ahead  with the 
investment.  
Ref: DRN75667303Kession has suggested that Miss G did her own research but there is no evidence  to support 
this assertion.  Miss G saw an advert  on a website advertising the services of the AR this is 
not the same as researching the investment.  
After making the Aegis investment Miss G had a discussion  with the AR about an unlisted 
security.  However, she did not go ahead with the investment.  So I dont think  this is 
relevant to the outcome  of this complaint.  The fact that Miss G received  information about a 
high risk investment  but did not go ahead  with it doesnt show Miss G was a high risk 
investor.  In  any event this complaint isnt being  upheld because the Aegis bond was 
unsuitable for Miss G  it is being  upheld because  Im satisfied that the AR misled Miss G 
about the company she invested in.  This  would be grounds to uphold  the complaint even if 
Miss G was an experienced  investor  prepared to take a high level of risk.  
It would potentially be relevant to the issue of redress.  If she was an experienced investor  
who was aware of the high risk nature of the investment she was making  then the redress 
calculation should  take this into consideration.  I am satisfied that Miss G was looking to 
achieve a better return than she was getting in the bank but it is not clear  she was a high risk 
investor.
I agree  with the investigator that losing such a substantial sum will have bene upsetting for 
Miss G.  I agree with the sum of £250 suggested  by the investigator as compensation for the 
upset Miss G has been caused.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Miss G as close  to the position she would probably  now be in if she had invested in the 
Aegis bond.  
I think Miss G would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done.  The Aegis  Bond was, in my view, represented as a relatively low risk 
investment that would generate a stable and reliable income stream.  Miss G was, however, 
clearly looking to achieve a better return than that available  on a deposit account  which 
suggests she was open to taking  at least some risk.  Given this I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable.   
what should  Kession do? 
To compensate Miss G fairly,  Kession must:
Compare the performance of Miss G's investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Kession should also pay interest as set out below. 
Pay Miss G £250 for the upset caused  by the loss of her savings.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN75667304investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Aegis 
Power  
Bondstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Miss G agrees to Kession taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Kession to take ownership,  
then it may request  an undertaking  from Miss G that she repays  to Kession any amount she 
may receive  from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Kession 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on.  So the interest payments Miss G received will be taken into 
account. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Kession totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Miss G wanted a reasonable return on her savings without taking  much  risk.
Ref: DRN75667305The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Miss G's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk.  So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably  
put Miss G into that position. It does not mean  that Miss G would have invested 50% 
of her money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather,  
I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  
Miss G could  have obtained  from investments suited  to her risk attitude.
The redress set out above makes allowance  for the interest on the bond that was 
paid to Miss G.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.   I order Kession Capital Limited to pay the 
redress set out above  to Miss G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566730