K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs S that two sofas Mrs S bought using a Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  credit card is faulty. But RBS wont  pursue a Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974  claim. Mrs S would like a refund of the cost of the sofas  
(£799) and the cost of an independent inspection report (£125)
background
Mr S says Mrs S bought a two and a three  seat sofa in July 2017. Unfortunately he says 
after a couple  of months the material started to crack. Mr S says he only realised there  was 
a problem when  he was visiting his mother which was more  than six months  after she 
bought the sofas.
He says, as the company Mrs S bought  the sofas from had gone out of business, he 
contacted RBS as the purchase  was made  using a RBS credit card. He says the bank asked 
for a report  which Mrs S organised and paid £125 for.
He says the report said as the damage was localised it couldnt  uphold the complaint. But 
said a rub test could be completed. But Mr S says RBS hasnt  done  this. Mr S doesnt agree 
the damage to the sofas is down  to normal wear and tear.
RBS said it considered Mrs Ss Section 75 claim but didnt  feel there was any evidence of 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  that would allow  it to pursue such a claim. The 
independent report  Mrs S obtained said the condition of the sofas  was down to normal wear  
and tear.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She found  the independent report  didnt 
conclude there was evidence of a manufacturing  fault. And that RBS was under no 
obligation to carry  out a rub test.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said goods should  be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and 
able to last a reasonable length of time.  He said it wasnt unreasonable to expect a sofa to 
last more than six months
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S feels  strongly about this and I do understand why.  Ive  seen some pictures of the sofas  
and the damage  is evident.
I think there are two issues here for me to consider. Firstly the damage  to the sofas.  And 
secondly RBSs  decision not to pursue a Section  75 claim on Mrs Ss behalf.
In terms of the sofas Mr S has given us photos which clearly demonstrate the material on the 
them has cracked.  Mr S feels that items bought should be of a reasonably quality and able to 
last a reasonable length of time. I would agree with him.
Mrs S commissioned an independent report from the Furniture Ombudsman. That is helpful 
evidence for me to have. Unfortunately that report concluded that although the vinyl covering 
was breaking down the sofas were in average condition for their age. And appeared to be in 
Ref: DRN75977262regular use. It also stated that it wasnt  possible  to isolate  a manufacturing fault that caused 
the covering to break down over time in Mrs Ss house.
I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree  with that report.  But I agree with our investigator that when 
an independent report has been  carried out it is hard for us to reach a different conclusion  to 
what a qualified inspector has reached. And of course I should stress  the report was 
independent, it wasnt carried  out by or for the company that sold the sofas. So I do trust its 
findings.
So on that basis I cant conclude that there was an inherent fault in the sofas.  It seems  that 
the sofas have  been  subject to a degree  of wear  and tear which  has result in the vinyl 
cracking.
Looking at RBSs  rejection  of a Section 75 claim - RBS explained to Mr S that such a claim 
doesnt give an automatic entitlement to a refund. It allows a consumer to pursue a claim 
against the retailer and/or the credit  provider for breach of contract or misrepresentation. But 
it explained the consumer has to prove either a breach of contract  or misrepresentation. It 
didnt feel that Mr S had.
Looking at all the information I have I would  agree  with RBSs  view. The independent report  
doesnt find any evidence  of a manufacturing defect. And Mr S hasnt  given us any other 
information that would allow me to conclude that either the sofas  were  misrepresented to 
Mrs S. Or that there was any breach of contract.
I appreciate the report said that to prove the quality of the vinyl a destructive rub test, which 
the technician  who examined the sofas  couldnt  do, would need  to be done.  I know Mr S isnt 
happy that RBS hasnt  arranged this. But I feel its decision not to pursue a Section 75 claim 
was reasonable  based  on the information it already had.  
As I havent  found  RBS has done anything  wrong I cant reasonably ask it to refund the cost 
of the sofas and/or the cost of the independent report  as Mrs S would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN7597726