K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Best Risk Management  & Financial  Service  Limiteds 
administration of his unemployment insurance policy.
background
In March 2018, Mr N took out the policy which was administered by Best Risk and unwritten  
by another company, which Ill call Z. The policy would pay benefit for up to twelve  months  
in the event that Mr N was made  involuntarily  unemployed.  The policy was subject to a 60-
day initial exclusion period. The policy  was monthly  renewable. The premium  was paid by 
direct debit.
In July 2018, Best Risk wrote to all policyholders, including  Mr N, to explain that Z was 
withdrawing the policy and so cover  would stop at 18 August 2018 which  was the next 
monthly anniversary.
Mr Ns wife contacted  Best Risk on his behalf  to discuss this. Best Risk confirmed that the 
July premium which had just been collected would provide cover for Mr N until 18 August. It 
provided Mr N with quotes for alternative policies from two other insurers, one of which  Ill 
call Y. However, because Mr N had held cover for less than six months, he wasnt able to 
transfer to these without  having to undergo a further exclusion period.
Mr N complained to Z about  its decision to withdraw the policy.  He asked for a complete 
refund of his premiums.
Mr N contacted Y directly  and arranged to take out a policy. His premium was significantly 
less than the quote provided by Best Risk even though the cover was similar. 
In August  2018,  a further monthly premium was collected from Mr Ns account. He contacted  
Best Risk to query this. It apologised for giving wrong information in the July phone  call and 
explained that the premium was paid in arrears.  This meant  that the payment was necessary 
if Mr N were to remain covered until 18 August 2018. However, it offered to refund this 
provided that Mr N was happy for his cover  to have ended a month earlier.
In September  2018, Z provided its final response to Mr Ns complaint. It agreed to refund  all 
the premiums he had paid for the policy, including  the August 2018 payment.
Mr N was nonetheless  unhappy with the service provided by Best Risk. He complained that 
it had left him in a vulnerable situation through the cancellation of the policy so soon after he 
had taken it out. He said it had provided  incorrect information and this had caused  him 
extreme financial hardship when  the August 2018 premium was unexpectedly  collected. He 
questioned how it was that he had been  able to obtain a cheaper  quote for cover by 
approaching Y directly.  
Best Risk explained that it wasnt responsible for cancelling Mr Ns policy;  this was a 
decision made by Z. It further  explained  it wasnt responsible for setting the premium  on the 
quote it had provided;  this was done  by Y. It apologised for any confusion it had caused over 
the collection of the August 2018 premium and offered a £25 gift voucher in compensation.
Mr N was unhappy at Best Risks response. He referred his complaint to us.
Ref: DRN70685272I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to not uphold  this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
I consider  that Mr Ns main frustration was the fact that his unemployment policy  was being 
withdrawn within six months of him taking it out. This meant that, even if he were  to take out 
a new policy, he would  still have  to undergo a further exclusion period before he would  be 
eligible to make a claim. He would therefore be left without  any cover for a period of time.
I sympathise with Mr N over this situation. However,  as Best Risk has explained, the 
decision to withdraw  the policy was made by Z. I cant reasonably hold Best Risk responsible 
for this.
Mr N was also unhappy that the quote which Best Risk provided for a policy  with Y was 
significantly higher  than the amount he was charged when he took out a policy with Y 
directly. However, Best Risk has explained that the price which  Y charges for its policies, 
and how it varies those prices between different sales channels, is a matter for Y. Best Risk 
has shown that the price  it quoted  to Mr N was the same price  which  it, in turn, was quoted 
by Y. Best Risk had no influence over this. I cant reasonably hold Best Risk responsible for 
the pricing decisions made by Y.
This means  the only error  which Best Risk made was that it advised Mr Ns wife in the July 
telephone call that he had already paid the necessary premium  to ensure he was covered 
under the policy  until it ended  on 18 August. In fact, this was incorrect because  the 
premiums were paid in arrears. And so a further  payment of £111 was due on 18 August.
It is unfortunate that Mr N was advised incorrectly in this way. But when Mr Ns wife brought  
this to its attention  following the collection of the August  premium,  it immediately agreed to 
refund the premium  and said this would happen  within 14 days.  A few days  later, having 
realised that the premium  was paid in arrears  to cover the period from 18 July to 18 August, 
Best Risk contacted  Mr N to explain this so he was aware that refunding the premium would 
mean his cover ended  on the earlier date. I think this was reasonable.
Within a week of Best Risk explaining this to Mr N, Z issued its final response confirming that 
it was prepared to refund all his premiums in any case. Best Risk has said that it spent a 
great deal of time in persuading Z to make this decision. 
I recognise that Mr N was upset by the fact that Best Risk failed  to advise him that his 
premiums were paid in arrears with the result  that when the August 2018 premium  of £111 
was collected  it came as a surprise. But Best Risk has apologised for this and offered a gift 
token of £25. Mr N has received a complete  refund of all his premiums from Z. I havent seen 
evidence that the temporary  loss of £111  caused him extreme  financial hardship. In all the 
circumstances, I think  the compensation offered by Best Risk is fair and I am not minded to 
require it to pay anything  more.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr N didnt accept my provisional decision.  He disputed  that Best Risk spent a great deal of 
time persuading Z to refund his premiums;  he believed Z would have agreed to do this in any 
case. He maintained that the unexpected  collection of the August  premium put him in 
extreme financial difficulty and provided bank statements in evidence of this. He continued to 
argue that the £25 voucher was inadequate compensation for the poor service provided by 
Best Risk.
Ref: DRN70685273Best Risk accepted  my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision should stand.
Mr N thinks that Z would  have upheld his complaint  and agreed to refund all his premiums  
without any involvement  of Best Risk. I dont know whether Z would have done but I see no 
reason to dispute that Best Risk used its best endeavours on his behalf  to bring this about.
I have looked  at the bank  statements  provided  by Mr N. These show  that he was already 
overdrawn at the time the August premium was taken and so this caused  him to go £111 
further overdrawn. However,  he remained  well within his arranged  overdraft limit of £1,000  
and he received a full refund of all his premiums from Z a short  while later.  I dont agree that 
this shows he was put in extreme financial difficulty.
In light of this, and the fact that Best Risk has accepted my provisional decision, I remain  of 
the opinion that the compensation offered by Best Risk was fair and it doesnt need  to pay 
anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068527