K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Connells  Limited  mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 3 April 2019  (a copy of which I attach to this final decision), I 
explained why I didnt intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B dont  agree with my provisional  decision. Connells hasnt given us any 
comments.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has now come back to me for a final decision
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
In response to that decision  Mr and Mrs B said  as they have said previously  they didnt 
know PPI was optional  and thought it was part of the mortgage process. But they havent  
been able to give me any new evidence  to support their position.  So Ive seen nothing to 
make me change the reasoning and conclusions I set out in my provisional decision on this 
point. I still think its more  likely than not they knew they had a choice about the PPI at the 
time.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 3 April 2019, I dont uphold                     
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73093672COPY OF MY PROVISONAL DECISION OF 3 APRIL 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Connells  Limited mis-sold them  payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs B were sold the PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 1999.
They say they were led to believe PPI was a requirement and followed a tick box exercise  to put it in 
place as part of the process of buying their home. And they say they werent given any additional 
information about the policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr and Mrs B disagree  and 
so their complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In the circumstances of this complaint, under the relevant  conditions  set out in the Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions)  (Ombudsman Scheme and Complaints Scheme) 
Order 2004, I can only look at whether, and to what extent, Connells acted in breach of its obligations 
to Mr and Mrs B under the Mortgage Code  Compliance Board  (MCCB) guidelines, such  as they relate 
to the selling  of insurance.
When our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, she didnt  assess it on the limited basis 
that was appropriate because the sale falls under  the Mortgage Code.
Having looked at all the evidence and information on this basis, I dont intend to uphold      Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint.  I know this will disappoint them but I hope the reasons  Im about  to give help them to 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.  
I need to look at three questions to decide Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  They are:
Am I allowed  to look at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  against  Connells?
If so, how much of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  can I look at?
Did Connells breach  the Mortgage  Code?
am I allowed to look at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  against Connells? 
The sale and marketing of insurance  (including PPI) first became an activity regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority on 14 January  2005. That means this service  can look at complaints 
about the sale of insurance products from that date. But the sale of                     Mr and Mrs Bs PPI 
was in 1999, which was before that date. So Connells was not, and did not need  to be, authorised by 
the FCA to sell insurance. 
We can look at PPI sales before 14 January 2005 for businesses like Connells only when, and to the 
extent, they were covered by one of the schemes that existed before then  these  are known as 
former schemes. Connells was a member of the MCCB  from 2 March  1998 to 30 October 2004.  This 
means complaints about  it could be looked at by the Mortgage Code  Arbitration Scheme (MCAS)  
which is one of the former  schemes. But I can only look at complaints about events that happened 
Ref: DRN73093673during this time if Connells  then went on to be covered  by our scheme. Our records show it was 
covered by our scheme from 31 October 2004. 
This means  I can look at complaints about Connells for events that happened during the time it was a 
member of the MCCB  including the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
how much  of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint can I look at?
As Ive said,  although we were given  permission to look at complaints where  a business  was a 
member of MCAS, we can only look at the same issues the MCAS scheme could look at. 
This means  that when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Connells, I can only look at the 
points MCAS couldve looked at. Please  see the extract  from the rules, below, which can be found  at 
website: fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/7  or we can give you a copy  if you ask us for one.
(5) Where the former scheme in question is the MCAS Scheme  [Mortgage Code Arbitration  Scheme], 
a complainant is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) if  
(a) The complaint does not relate to a breach of the Mortgage Code; 
(b) the complaint  concerns  physical injury, illness, nervous shock  or their consequences;  or
(c) the complainant is claiming a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  isnt caught by (b) or (c) above. So I need to look at whether or not it relates  
to a breach of the Mortgage  Code before I can continue.
The Mortgage  Code  was chiefly concerned with mortgages and secured  lending. There was only a 
very small  part of the code  that related to insurance. This was in section 3.2 of the code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the following:
a description  of any insurance  service which we can arrange (for example,  buildings, 
contents, mortgage  payment protection and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken  out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure  that it is taken out;
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must  be arranged by us;
a general description of any costs,  fees or other charges in connection with the mortgage 
which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation fees, arrangement fees, early 
repayment charges,  legal fees and insurance  premiums).
So I can look at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint but only in relation to what they say about being told the 
PPI wasnt  optional   in other  words, that it was a condition of the mortgage  and about  not being 
given good enough  information about its cost
I do understand Mr and Mrs B have raised  other points  about the sale of the policy  in particular, they 
say didnt  need it. But for the reasons Ive given Im not allowed to look at anything  that isnt covered 
by the four points Ive referred  to.
did Connells  breach the Mortgage Code?
To breach  the Mortgage  Code, Connells wouldve needed to tell Mr and Mrs B they had to take PPI to 
get their mortgage, when in fact they didnt need to. Mr and Mrs B say the policy was sold to them at a 
meeting and they were  led to believe it was a requirement of the mortgage.  There  are no records of 
the meeting, so I dont know how the PPI was presented to them. But Ive looked at copies of 
documents Connells  has sent us from the time. Theres nothing  in them  to suggest Mr and Mrs B had 
to buy PPI, whether from Connells or elsewhere, to get the mortgage.
Ref: DRN73093674I can see Mr and Mrs B signed  a separate application form for the PPI. And I can also see Mrs B 
signed a direct debit mandate for the policy  payments. Although Mr and Mrs B say they just signed  
the paperwork they were given and didnt  know they had a choice about PPI, I think  it was open  to 
them not to complete the form and direct debit mandate if they didnt want to. I think its more likely 
than not they knew they had a choice about PPI at the time. So I dont think its likely Connells  
breached the Mortgage  Code here.
 
I should  also say  although it isnt a point Mr and Mrs B have raised specifically  I can see the PPI 
application form set out how much the PPI would cost them each month and the total amount of the 
benefit theyd get (although  some of the figures werent put in the right boxes). The leaflet that came  
with the application form shows how to calculate the monthly premium. According to the Mortgage 
Code, I only have  to see there  was a general  description  of costs,  fees or other charges. I think the 
form shows the general description of the PPI costs which Mr and Mrs B were  expected to pay. And I 
think this complies  with the Mortgage Code  so I dont think  theres  been a breach.  
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say Mr and Mrs B werent  made 
aware by Connells that the PPI was optional  or that Connells didnt give them  a general description of 
the cost of the policy. So I dont think theres evidence  here to show Connells breached the Mortgage 
Code. And thats why its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7309367