K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  has charged him interest of £21.50  for 
using his credit card.
background
Mr G says he is a longstanding Nationwide customer and has been charged interest for 
using his credit card.  He says he wasnt told there wasnt a 0% rate on the card and if he had 
known the correct position,  then he wouldve cancelled the credit card. Mr G says hes been  
unfairly treated  and would  like the £21.50 refunded and compensation given  to him.
Nationwide says Mr G wasnt entitled to any offers on the credit card account he opened as 
he had a previous  credit  card account with it. It says it told Mr G that in a letter and in the 
application form and that the account  terms and conditions also repeat that.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think Nationwide  had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The adjudicator  thought Nationwide had made clear both in writing  
and under the account terms and conditions that Mr G wasnt  entitled to account offers and 
the interest was correctly  applied. The adjudicator  didnt think Nationwide  was responsible 
for Mr G not receiving the letter. And he listened to the call between  the parties  and didnt 
think Nationwides advisor could clarify  the position when Mr G didnt raise  the issue.
Mr G doesnt accept  that view or receiving  Nationwides letter about the offer entitlement.  He 
says that he couldnt be expected to raise  the issue of the interest rate when he called 
Nationwide when he wasnt  aware of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I can see that Mr G previously held a Nationwide credit card account and that Nationwide 
wrote to him in May 2018 telling him he wouldnt be entitled to any new credit card offers. I 
appreciate Mr G says he didnt receive  that letter. But I cant fairly hold Nationwide 
responsible for that as its not responsible for the delivery of the mail. And I can see that the 
online application form that Mr G completed  contains information about the same issue. Im 
satisfied the form makes clear that Mr G is not entitled to introductory offers, and that 
information  is not contained within the small print of the application form but prominently 
displayed.
Im also satisfied that the account terms and conditions, which I think Mr G would have 
agreed to when the account was opened  also deal with that issue and the charging  of 
interest. So Im satisfied overall  Nationwide hasnt made a mistake here or acted unfairly by 
charging Mr G interest.
I appreciate Mr G says that Nationwide  shouldve made him aware of this issue  when he 
called it. But Ive listened to the call and I dont think the issue was ever raised  and the 
purpose of the call was about a late payment. In those circumstances I wouldnt have 
expected Nationwide to have mentioned the issue or anticipated that Mr G didnt receive the 
letter from May 2018 or hadnt noticed  the relevant information on the application form.
Ref: DRN76662372I can see that Mr G believes  that Nationwide should take a different approach to a long 
standing customer with a number of different types  of accounts. But Im satisfied that sort of 
commercial decision is for Nationwide to make  and not something  I can fairly interfere in.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666237