K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about UK Insurance Limiteds  (UKIs)  valuation  of her car after she 
was involved in an accident. Mrs B was also unhappy with the way she was spoken  to over 
the phone.
background
Mrs B was involved  in an accident  which resulted in her car being written-off (known as a 
total loss).  UKI offered  Mrs B £4,600 to settle  her claim.
UKI said it had based its valuation  on the available trade guides. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint and thought  LV had made Mrs B a fair offer.  
And as recordings werent available for the calls Mrs B was unhappy about,  she was unable  
to find UKI had spoken to her inappropriately.
Mrs B disagreed. She had paid more for the car when she bought  it just two months before 
the accident and didnt  think  she should lose out financially  for an accident that wasnt her 
fault.
As Mrs B didnt agree  this complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs motor insurance state  that following her car being 
written off it will:
We will not pay more  than the market  value of your car at the time of the loss (less any 
excess that may apply).
Market Value is defined in the policy as:
Market value - the cost of replacing  your car with another of the same make  and model  and 
of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our service doesnt value  cars, but we look to see if an insurer  has made a fair and 
reasonable offer. We do that by looking at relevant trade guides.  I find these persuasive as
theyre based on nationwide  research.
Ref: DRN75922272I can see that when  assessing the value of Mrs Bs car at the time of the accident  the 
engineer at UKI consulted the Glasses guide which gave a valuation of £4,500,  after 
speaking to Mrs B it increased the offer to £4,600.
When considering  this complaint our investigator consulted  the remaining trade guides The 
CAP guide gave a lower  valuation of £4,382 and the Cazana  guide a higher valuation  at 
£4,729. 
I appreciate Mrs B paid more for her car two months  before the accident, but the value of a 
car can fall over a short time and the offer made  by UKI is within  the range of the trade 
guides, so I think  its fair.
I understand Mrs B wasnt happy  with the discussions  she had with UKI, felt bullied into 
taking the offer, and that the settlement was paid to her without  her agreement.  But call 
recordings arent available for these  conversations  so I cant be certain what  was said,  and I 
dont think it would be fair to conclude UKI behaved  inappropriately  without further  evidence.
And while Mrs B may not have agreed with the payment, it was made  to her in accordance 
with the insurance  policy  she held with UKI, preventing  delays. So I dont think it did anything 
wrong by making  the payment.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7592227