K821x#15complaint
Mr S says its not fair that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) wont consider a claim he 
made on his legal expenses insurance. 
background
Mr S bought a home insurance  policy  with CIS which  included  legal expenses cover. His 
policy ran from September  2015  for a year. Its of note that he had legal expenses insurance  
prior to this and subsequently, with different providers. 
In May 2016  Mr S noticed  problems with some paving hed had installed at his property in 
2013. A few months later he raised his concerns with the company that had carried  out the 
works. By November 2016 Mr S was highlighting the potential  for legal action. 
Ultimately the company  Mr S was in dispute with didnt accept liability for what had 
happened. So, he instructed a solicitor to pursue  matters. He later tried to make a claim on 
his legal expenses  insurance to cover  the cost of action.
CIS says Mr Ss policy  only covered contracts entered  into during the period of cover. It also 
said that he made his claim too late. In addition, CIS told us there were policy exclusions 
which wouldve applied even if it had considered his claim.
Mr S is frustrated  that hes had continuous  legal expenses cover for several years and yet 
finds himself in a situation where  he cant make a claim  against  any of the policies.
The investigator thought CIS should take responsibility for considering Mr Ss claim in the 
circumstances but noted this was subject to other terms  and conditions  in the policy.  CIS 
disagreed and so Mr Ss complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in August. Neither Mr S nor CIS agreed  in full with my 
conclusions. I shall address their main  respective  concerns in this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr Ss main  complaint. But 
Ill explain  why I dont  think this is of material benefit  to him.
Like many  people, Mr S has shopped  around  for his insurance over the years. Hes found 
himself in a position  where he needed  to call on his legal expenses cover. But all of the 
insurers hes been with over the past five years  have insisted they arent  responsible for 
considering his claim.
In cases like this, where  a consumer has had continuous legal  expenses  cover,  we dont 
think its right for a claim  to fall between stools. Taking into account  the general  FCA 
principle of treating  customers fairly, wed expect one of the insurers  involved to consider the 
claim. 
So, I thought about the particular circumstances Mr S finds  himself  in.
Ref: DRN73817752Between September 2013 and September 2015 Mr S bought  his legal  expenses  cover from 
insurer X. This was a claims made  policy. This meant X would consider claims reported 
within the period  of insurance, even if, say, a contract in dispute was in place prior to the 
insurance starting (if knowledge of an insured event occurred within the policy  period). 
Xs argument is that by the time Mr S made his claim in January 2018 he no longer had a 
policy with it. The event  in question happened  after hed taken cover with another insurer.
Between September 2015 and September 2016 Mr S bought  his legal  expenses  cover from 
CIS. Ive read the policy document, which says it would insure  legal costs  associated with 
pursuing his rights in relation to agreements  entered into for the:
the purchase or hiring of any goods or services but only where the agreement was 
made or renewed  after the commencement  of [this] insurance [contract]
CISs argument is that Mr S entered into the contract for his paving in 2013, prior to the 
cover period  he had with it.
From September 2016 Mr S bought his legal  expenses  cover from insurer Z. This was a 
claims occurring policy.  This meant  Z was only providing insurance for disputes relating to 
events occurring within its policy period. These sorts  of policies generally dont provide cover  
for anything  prior to their policy coming  into force.
Zs argument is that the event giving rise to Mr Ss claim  happened before September 2016.
Id stress that theres no perfect answer in this situation. I do understand the argument each 
insurer makes. But I have to decide on balance which of them should  consider his claim. Our 
well established position in these rare cases is that as Mr S had continuous cover he should 
have resort to one of the policies.
Mr S had no reason  for concern about his paving  until May 2016 when it started to crumble. 
At that point he knew there was a potential  problem which might lead to a claim. This was 
during CISs time on cover. So I think it should consider his claim.
I know CISs policy doesnt usually cover  claims where an agreement was entered into 
before the policy start date. We wouldnt normally expect an insurer  to provide cover  where  
that term applies. But my decision  is based  on the specific circumstances of this case  it 
doesnt set a precedent. Its based on the overriding principle that customers  should  be 
treated fairly.
Mr S found  himself in a situation where he sought and paid for continuous legal expenses 
cover over a period of several years, but none  of the providers is prepared to consider his 
claim. This is an effect  stemming from the somewhat nuanced technical differences in how 
the separate policies operated. And its not something Id expect an average person to have 
understood the implications of unless it had been clearly brought to their attention. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Mr S was made  aware  of the particular potential gaps in cover. 
It may or may not be there are arguments that all three insurers should bear a proportion of 
responsibility for whats happened  here.  But I dont think achieving a precise  agreement  
between the insurers  would be quick, and could well prove  unsuccessful. 
Ref: DRN73817753Mr S has already been waiting a long time to have this issue resolved. The complaint in front 
of me is about CIS. My decision adheres to our established  approach  in these  rare legal 
expenses insurance  cases, where continuous cover  has been in place and theres 
disagreement about which insurer should  consider a claim. Its pragmatic and proportionate. 
It takes into account the particular circumstances of his complaint.
Leaving aside its main  objection, CIS suggested Mr S was out of time to raise a claim. I can 
see the policy says that it wont  be liable for:
any claim  notified to us more  than 180 days after [the policyholder] knew  or reasonably  
should have known of the event giving rise to the claim
I can see the logic here. Mr S made a claim in 2018,  but wouldve been  aware of the 
potential for a claim from 2016. CIS acknowledged  this argument wasnt telling in terms of its 
position - perhaps  because it understands our approach in these situations. 
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that an insurer  shouldnt  reject a 
claim for breach of condition or warranty unless the circumstances of the claim are 
connected to the breach. And its up to the insurer  to show any breach has caused it 
prejudice. Ive not seen  evidence to show how the late notification  of Mr Ss claim prejudiced  
its position. 
In summary  it is the right thing to do in the circumstances for CIS to have considered Mr Ss 
claim for support with his legal expenses. 
Unfortunately for Mr S, CIS raised  a further  matter which  is telling for my decision overall. As 
the investigator has said previously, even if CIS were to consider his claim this would be 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions. 
CIS has told us that if it had to consider Mr Ss claim it would be declined on the basis that 
the policy specifically  excludes:
any claim  relating to: building or construction work on any land or the design, 
extension, renovation or alteration  of any building...
It says this catches the paving work  Mr S had done.  This seems to me a reasonable 
interpretation of the term.  
I know Mr S is frustrated  by the overall outcome and hes told us about  the very real impact 
his situation has had on him. 
Although Ive upheld his main complaint ultimately hes not in a better position. Thats  
because CIS have relied on other  policy terms to decline his claim. No insurance  policy  can 
provide cover for every  eventuality and this type of exclusion  is not unusual  or onerous.
Ref: DRN73817754my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Ss main complaint insofar as CIS shouldve  
considered his claim. 
However, I also think the exclusion CIS has subsequently told us it would rely on to reject  his claim 
in relation to building  and construction  works  would  apply.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381775