K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold them a Silver 
Added Value Account (SAVA) in 2010.  Mr S took out the SAVA  originally and Mrs S was 
added to the account in 2016.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr S had recently come into the UK in January 2010 and needed a bank account. He took 
out a fee free Select  Account with Bank of Scotland.
In August  2010  Mr S took out a SAVA which incurred a monthly fee.
Mr and Mrs S say that Mr S spoke and read very little English in Jan 2010 and not much 
more in August  2010. And they say the SAVA  was not suitable  for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the sale of the SAVA but 
Mr and Mrs S disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
I think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the SAVA  to Mr and Mrs S and Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the SAVA to Mr S and advised him to buy it. So 
Bank of Scotland was required to determine  whether it was suitable for him.
Mr S took out a fee free Select Account in January 2010. At the time Bank of Scotland noted 
on its record of the discussion with him that classic account opened for weekly  wage from X 
(employer). Unable to understand to silver  account  benefits Customer has just arrived in UK 
from Y (country). 
Mr S was telephoned by Bank of Scotland in August  2010 and sold the SAVA. In my view I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr Ss communication skills were still not good enough at 
that time to understand what he was buying.
I say this because  Mr and Mrs S have said consistently that Mr Ss standard  of English  was 
poor when  he bought  the SAVA. I find this plausible as English is not his first language and 
Bank of Scotlands record confirms  his communication difficulties when he arrived  in the 
country in January 2010. Although by August 2010  he had been in this country for several 
months, its very common  for people not to develop their language skills that quickly when 
living in another  country. So I think its more likely than not that his ability to understand what 
he was either asked or told about  a substantial  financial product was still very limited.
Ref: DRN77509212In my view this would  have made it very difficult for Bank of Scotland  to determine if the 
SAVA was suitable for him, and I dont think it was. I say this for the following reasons.
The main  SAVA benefits  included  European travel insurance, car breakdown  service,  mobile  
phone insurance,  sentinel card protection and the Lloyds travel  service. The SAVA cost 
£7.95 a month,  equivalent to £95.40 a year.
At the time of sale, Mr S was on a low income and didnt have a car or a mobile  phone. And 
there is no evidence  that Mr S registered  for or used  any of the services  the SAVA provided. 
Bank of Scotlands record shows that travel insurance was discussed and he was travelling 
to and from his home country, up to 3 times  per year.  But if he had just wanted travel 
insurance in my view he couldve bought  it much  cheaper than taking out a SAVA. So in my 
view Bank  of Scotland didnt make a suitable  recommendation  when  it advised  Mr S to take 
out the account. 
I note that Mr S benefitted from the interest  and fee free overdraft that was introduced  to the 
product a couple of years  after the sale. I will take into account any savings Mr and Mrs S 
made from that in my consideration of redress.
So I think its more likely  than not that when Bank of Scotland recommended  the SAVA  to Mr 
S in 2010,  the SAVA was unsuitable for him and I think Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result.
putting things right
I require Bank of Scotland to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount firstly Mr S paid and then Mr and Mrs S paid together 
each month for the SAVA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S have saved money because of a better rate on their overdraft by having 
the packaged account and Bank  of Scotland can show exactly  how much  Mr and Mrs S 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount  it pays them  but only after it has 
calculated the two points above. Bank  of Scotland must explain clearly  and simply to 
Mr and Mrs S how it has worked  out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest. Bank of 
Scotland must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs S didnt  send any further  substantive comments to me by the date I set. But 
Bank of Scotland have accepted my decision and offered to pay redress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77509213As Mr and Mrs S provided no further evidence or arguments and Bank  of Scotland  has 
accepted my decision my conclusions remain  as outlined in my provisional findings  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and require 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay redress to Mr and Mrs S as outlined  in my provisional putting 
things right paragraph above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750921