K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
declined a claim made on her level term assurance policy after her husband, Mr C, passed 
away. Mrs C has also complained about the time it took Royal  London to decline her claim.
background
Mrs C took out a level-term assurance policy with Royal  London in 2009. The policy provided 
life cover for Mrs Cs husband,  Mr C, and had a sum assured of £100,000. 
Sadly, Mr C passed away in 2018.  Mrs C contacted Royal London  in mid-September 2018 to 
make a claim on the policy. Mrs C gave Royal London a copy of Mr Cs death certificate, 
which listed the causes  of his death  as chest sepsis, malnutrition and alcohol excess.  
On 24 September  2018, Royal London wrote  to Mr Cs GP to ask some questions  about 
Mr Cs health. The GP replied on 19 October 2018,  and disclosed Mr C was referred to an 
Alcohol Problem Clinic in 2004. Royal  London  asked Mr Cs GP for more  information about 
Mr Cs medical  history  on 29 October  2018,  but didnt hear back from the GP until around 
21 November 2018.
Royal London looked again at the information Mr C provided when Mrs C took out the policy. 
Royal London asked  Mr C the following questions as part of the application:
Over the last year,  how many units of alcohol have you drunk in an average  week?
Have you ever drunk more than this on average  per week?
Have you ever asked  for or been given advice  by a medical professional to reduce 
the amount you drink?
Royal London wrote  to Mrs C on 23 November 2018. It explained why it thought Mr C should 
have answered  yes to the second  and third questions listed  above. Royal London  said:    
[Mr C] had been drinking alcohol excessively for several years  before the policy was 
applied for (well over the 12 units per week that he had declared), and had been 
referred to the Alcohol Problems  Clinic  more  than once. The information  details a 
significant alcohol problem, including non-compliance  with medical advice and 
admission to hospital.
Royal London asked  Mrs C why Mr C may have answered these questions incorrectly.  Mrs 
C was unsure as to why Mr C may have given  these answers and suggested  he might not 
have fully understood the questions.
Royal London wrote  to Mrs C on 30 November 2018. It said it wouldnt have offered Mrs C 
the policy if it had known about  Mr Cs past alcohol use, so it declined his claim. Royal  
London also cancelled  the policy and refunded the premiums  paid towards it  Royal  London 
explained the policys terms and conditions set out that if a claim was rejected, the only 
payment it will make  is a return of the paid premiums without interest. Unhappy with this 
response, Mrs C complained to Royal London  but its decision to decline  her claim remained 
unchanged, so Mrs C referred her complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN78114602One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the policy application  questions around  alcohol  usage  were answered incorrectly. If 
the questions  had been answered correctly, Royal London would not have offered Mrs C the 
policy. The investigator  thought the terms of the policy allowed Royal London to cancel the 
policy and reject the claim because Mr C did not answer these questions  fully and truthfully 
to the best of his knowledge  and belief.  The investigator thought the policys terms also 
entitled Mrs C to a refund  of the premiums  paid without interest. Because  of this, the 
investigator didnt  think  Royal  London had treated Mrs C unfairly.  Our investigator  also 
reviewed the time it took for Royal London to consider  Mrs Cs claim. The investigator noted 
there were some delays  in obtaining  Mr Cs medical records,  but they didnt think the delay 
was Royal  Londons  fault. The investigator thought  Royal  London tried to progress Mrs Cs 
claim and kept her updated  whilst  it did so.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said her husband died because of 
sepsis, which was the first named cause of death  on the death certificate. She said Mr C 
may not have fully understood the questions about  alcohol  use and didnt think it was right 
that Royal London could decline her claim. Mrs C remained unhappy with the time it took 
Royal London to handle her claim. So Mrs Cs complaint was referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I would first like to say how sorry I am for 
Mrs Cs loss, and I understand her complaint  has been made against the background of a very 
difficult time for her.
I note Mrs Cs comments about  the cause of her husbands death.  My role here is not to determine 
the cause of Mr Cs death. But because of one of the listed  causes of death was alcohol excess,  I 
think Royal London was entitled to consider the information Mr C provided as part of the policy  
application. The policys  terms say:
When the proposal  for this policy was completed you were  asked to provide replies to 
certain questions.  You may subsequently  have been  asked  to provide replies to 
additional questions. You had a duty to answer fully and truthfully, to the best of your 
knowledge and belief, all of these questions. The replies you gave to questions 
concerning matters such as the health, occupation,  smoking habits and lifestyle of the 
Life Assured were  of particular importance  to us in assessing your proposal. Where  a 
person other than you is the Life Assured under the policy that person was also required 
to confirm that these  replies were correct.
We have a right to cancel  this policy or to reject  any claim made under it or to reduce any 
benefit which may be paid under the terms of this policy  if:
you, or the Life Assured, did not answer these questions fully and truthfully,  to the 
best of your,  or their knowledge and belief;  or
at any time before  the Issue Date of the Entry Date (if later), you or the Life Assured 
discovered that any of the answers  given  were wrong or incomplete  or that 
circumstances had changed so that they became wrong or incomplete,  but we were 
not told.
If we choose to cancel this policy  or reject any claim made  under  it, the only payment we 
will then make will be a return without interest of all Premiums  which have been paid 
Ref: DRN78114603We will only exercise our right to cancel this policy or to reject  any claim made under it or 
to reduce the amount  payable if the wrong or incomplete answer  would have affected our 
decision to accept your proposal on these  terms.
I think the policys terms and conditions were in line with relevant industry  codes and 
practice at the time the policy was taken out, which  explained how businesses  would be 
expected to deal with potential non-disclosures.
I think the questions  Mr C was asked about his alcohol use were clearly worded. Ive not 
seen any evidence from the time the policy was taken out that would suggest Mr C was 
unclear about  how to answer these questions. 
Mr C said he drank  12 units  of alcohol  in an average week.  He was asked if hed ever drunk 
more than this on average  per week and he answered no. Royal London enquired  as to 
whether Mr C had ever asked for or been  given advice by a medical professional  to reduce 
the amount he drinks   again,  Mr C answered no. But having reviewed Mr Cs medical 
records, there is a significant amount of evidence  to show Mr C had regularly drunk more 
than 12 units of alcohol in the past. One letter dated  8 June 2004, from the Alcohol Problems 
Clinic, says Mr C said he drank 8-10 cans of lager/cider daily.  On 15 June  2004,  the 
Alcohol Problems  encouraged Mr C to look to the longer-term prospect  of achieving and 
maintaining abstinence for several  months. On 30 July 2004,  the Alcohol Problems Clinic 
said Mr C shows to be intent on continuing  to drink  at a reduced rate. He has no interest 
whatsoever in attempting total abstinence.  I have asked him once  again  to contact the 
Council on Alcohol and to sleek  advice  specifically on controlled drinking.  These  records 
are dated  less than five years before the policy was taken out in 2009.  Given the number of 
occasions Mr C had contact with medical professionals about  his drinking, I think its unlikely  
Mr C would forget he attended an Alcohol Problems Clinic for several months and was 
advised to stop or at least reduce his drinking. I dont think  I can reasonably  conclude  that Mr 
C answered these questions to the best of his knowledge. So, I think  the answers  Mr C gave 
to these two questions were inaccurate.
Ive gone on to consider what Royal London  would have done differently  if Mr C had 
answered the above two questions correctly. Royal London has provided its underwriting  
guidance, which supports its statement that it would not have offered Mr C cover  had he 
disclosed his medical history and alcohol use in the past. This means it wouldnt have 
offered Mrs C this policy  and the policys terms say Royal London will cancel  the policy in 
this situation.  This also aligns with the industry guidance. So, I dont think  Royal  Londons 
decision to cancel Mrs Cs policy was an unreasonable one. And because  it wouldnt have 
offered this policy, I think it was fair for Royal London to return the premiums paid towards it. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy state that Royal  London wont  pay interest on the 
refunded premiums, and I dont  think its obliged to pay interest to Mrs C or that it has treated 
her unfairly by refusing to do so.
I note Mrs C was unhappy  with the time it took Royal London to consider her claim. From 
what Ive seen, I dont  think Royal London  caused  any significant  avoidable  delays. There 
was some delay in getting information  back from Mr Cs GP  but I think the information 
Royal London asked  for was reasonable  and I note it chased  the GP when it didnt  receive a 
response. Overall,  I think Royal London  handled  Mrs Cs claim in a reasonable timescale.
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs C. but I dont  think  Royal  London has treated her 
unfairly in declining her claim, cancelling her policy and refunding the policy  premiums. 
Ref: DRN78114604my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7811460