K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999 to cover  Mrs Ss Marbles credit card 
repayments. The policy gave Mrs S accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed saying for her the PPI was a 
compulsory part of taking  the credit card, so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities   in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
HFC cant  provide Mrs Ss policy  document  so I have relied on one from the nearest date 
available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S says she applied for a credit card by post and didnt select PPI. And then a 
week later HFC rang her and said if she wanted her requested balance transfer to go 
ahead she had to take out PPI. HFC disputes this and says Mrs S selected  PPI on 
her application  form.  It cant provide a copy of Mrs Ss application form but thats not 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. It has provided a 
sample of the postal  application form that was in use at the time. This shows the PPI 
would have been presented as optional - there  are Yes and No boxes set out with 
equal prominence.  
But as Mrs Ss form is no longer available I cant see how it was completed, and the 
parties have submitted contradictory evidence. This means I have to decide  what  I 
think is most likely  based on the available evidence.  I dont doubt Mrs S is giving her 
honest recollections of the sale, but I have  to take into account  that it was nearly  20 
years ago and this might have impacted  what she recalls. On balance,  I think its 
more likely she selected PPI at the same  time as she applied  for the card. I say this 
because the bank has sent in system  records that show  the PPI policy  started on the 
same date as the credit. And it has explained that the credit  would have  started on 
receipt of the postal  application. 
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely HFC made it 
clear to Mrs S the PPI was optional and she agreed to take it out.  
HFC didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  
for her. It was up to Mrs S to decide  whether the policy was right for her, bearing in 
mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost her job. 
Ref: DRN79289232Its possible HFC didnt  give Mrs S all the information about the PPI that she needed 
before she made her decision. But Mrs S chose to take out the policy  and so appears  
to have wanted this type of cover. She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. At the 
time Mrs S had limited  savings and thinks she was entitled  to between three and six 
months sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits 
and for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover.  She 
said her parents would have  helped, but thats  not suitable alternative protection  as 
its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  So based on her 
circumstances at the time of this sale, I think it unlikely Mrs S wouldve made  a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. 
It follows I dont think Mrs S has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928923