K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Vehicle Credit  Limited  (VCL) unfairly ended  his car hire purchase 
agreement, and continues to pursue him for the debt it says he owes.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 December 2019.  A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
Mr G and VCL both responded  to say that they accepted my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  by the parties, I see no reason to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Vehicle Credit Limited to:
-write off the balance  on Mr Gs account once the car had been repossessed and 
sold.
-remove any adverse information  about  the May 2015 default and any other adverse 
information recorded since that date from Mr Gs credit file.
I understand the debt has been  sold on to a third party. My remedy  is that the debt should be 
completely written off and any default  from May 2015 and adverse information about this 
loan from then on needs to be removed from Mr Gs credit file. Vehicle Credit Limited must 
make the necessary arrangements to achieve  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76831632APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Vehicle  Credit  Limited  (VCL) unfairly  ended his car hire purchase agreement, 
and continues  to pursue him for the debt it says he owes.
background
In 2014 Mr G acquired a car using a VCL hire purchase agreement.  Mr G fell into arrears, and VCL 
sent him a default notice  on 28 May 2015. It said it would repossess the car if the arrears werent 
cleared by 14 June 2015. 
On the same day Mr G told VCL the car had been impounded  by the police because  his driving 
licence had expired. VCL made arrangements to collect the car from the pound, to prevent storage 
costs increasing.
Mr G didnt clear the arrears on the account. The car was repossessed on 14 June 2015 when VCLs 
default notice expired. VCL then sold the car, but the sale price  wasnt enough to clear  what  Mr G 
owed. So hes continued  to be liable  for the outstanding amount and VCL recorded the default  on his 
credit file.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She thought  VCL had issued a 
default notice too soon, because Mr G had only been in arrears for one month when the May 2015 
default notice was sent. 
In addition, the investigator thought VCL shouldve told Mr G he could avoid repossession  by clearing  
the arrears when he called to tell it the car had been impounded. The investigator considered VCL 
had left Mr G with the impression  that repossession was unavoidable. So she thought it was 
understandable that he hadnt paid what he owed.
The investigator said VCL should write off any money owing under  the agreement from the date of 
repossession (subject  to costs), and remove all adverse information about  the default from Mr Gs 
credit file.
VCL didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions.  It said Mr Gs car was impounded by the police  
while the default notice  was in force. So even if Mr G had paid what he owed, he still wouldve been in 
breach of the hire purchase terms  and conditions. As such,  VCL considered  it was reasonable for it to 
repossess the car.
The investigator considered  VCL shouldve  given  Mr G notice of its intention to repossess the car 
because it had been  impounded by the police.  By failing to give the appropriate  notice, it had denied 
Mr G the opportunity to take action to keep the car.
VCL still didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
VCL says Mr Gs car was repossessed because of arrears on the account. During the period of the 
default notice the car was impounded by the police, and VCL says this was another breach of the hire 
Ref: DRN76831633purchase agreements terms and conditions. As such, it doesnt consider it wouldve  been fair to allow 
Mr G to clear the arrears  because the car wouldve been repossessed anyway.
Ive thought about what VCL has said, but Im not persuaded that the car being impounded during the 
period of the default notice meant the business could  automatically end the hire purchase agreement 
and/or repossess the car.  
I say this because the relevant provisions of the hire purchase  agreement say:
7. Our right  to end this agreement or take back the vehicle  (or both)
7.1 We can (after serving you with a notice under  the Consumer Credit Act 1974)  end this agreement, 
immobilise the vehicle and/or take back the vehicle (or both)  if:
7.2 you are late with any of your payments;
7.7 the vehicle is seized or held by the Police or held within a compound;
When Mr Gs car was impounded by the police, VCL didnt consider  it needed  to send Mr G a notice 
of intention to repossess  the vehicle. That was because it had already issued a default notice for the 
arrears he owed.
But Im satisfied that the hire purchase term above means that VCL should  issue a notice on each  
occasion that one of the circumstances listed within  that term occurs. Im not persuaded  that 
impounding the car was a breach of the terms and conditions  which meant VCL could automatically 
end the agreement and/or repossess the vehicle  without notice.
So even though a default  notice was in force when  Mr Gs car was impounded, I think term 7.1 meant 
VCL had to issue another notice to make  Mr G aware  the car could be repossessed as a result of 
term 7.7. 
Had it done so, this wouldve  given  Mr G the opportunity to take action to keep the car.
But when Mr G contacted VCL to tell it the car was impounded,  VCLs  call notes say:
Wanted to know the next process, advised him it was a breach of Ts & Cs so the vehicle  will be re-
possessed.
So it seems  VCL was working on the basis  that impounding the car was a breach  of the hire purchase 
terms and conditions  that meant the car could automatically be repossessed. VCL didnt  give Mr G 
any guidance  on what he could do to avoid repossession. 
Im aware that Mr G had fallen  into arrears earlier  in 2015.  On that occasion  hed paid what he owed 
before the default notice expired, so the car wasnt repossessed. Keeping that in mind, I think its 
likely that Mr G wouldve taken  corrective action  to keep the car if VCL had given him the opportunity 
to do so. 
But instead,  when Mr G contacted  VCL he was left with the impression that the car would be 
repossessed whether or not he cleared the arrears. As Ive already said, I dont think VCL shouldve 
done that without issuing a further notice to Mr G.
That means Im satisfied  that Mr Gs complaint  should be upheld. He shouldnt be required to pay 
what was owed  on the account once the car had been repossessed and sold.  VCL should  also 
remove any adverse information about the May 2015 default (and any other adverse information 
recorded since  that date) from Mr Gs credit file. 
Ref: DRN76831634I understand VCL has sold the debt to a third party. So VCL will need to take whatever steps are 
necessary to make sure Mr G doesnt pay what was owed once the car was repossessed and sold, 
and that any adverse  information recorded on his credit  file about  the May 2015 default  (and any 
other adverse information recorded  since  then) is removed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to direct Vehicle Credit  Limited to:
-write off the balance on Mr Gs account once the car had been repossessed and sold.
-remove any adverse  information about the May 2015 default and any other adverse 
information recorded  since  that date from Mr Gs credit file.
I understand the debt has been sold on to a third party. My remedy is that the debt should be 
completely written off and any default from May 2015 and adverse  information  about  this loan from 
then on needs to be removed from Mr Gs credit  file. Vehicle Credit Limited must make the necessary  
arrangements to achieve this.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7683163