K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about a reduction in the interest  rate applied to his account with TSB Bank 
plc.
background
Mr E is unhappy about a reduction in the interest rate on his TSB account. 
In May 2018  he received an email from TSB notifying him of an interest  rate increase which 
stated we promise this wont be taken away after a year. 
Mr E was subsequently  told by TSB that the rate would reduce from 5% variable to 3% 
variable with effect from 2 July 2019.
Mr E complained to TSB. In its final response it said it didnt  agree  that it had made an error  
in reducing the interest rate and said the reduction was in line with the terms and conditions  
of the account.
Mr E wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that although TSBs email  promised 
not to take the interest rate away after a year,  it had fulfilled  this promise  because  the 
interest rate wasnt reduced until some 14 months later. The investigator also said that the 
sentiment behind the interest rate increase to 5 % in May 2018 was to compensate 
customers after they had experienced  a period of difficulty following a systems  upgrade.  The 
investigator didnt  feel that it was necessary  for TSB to pay further compensation.
Mr E didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that this service doesnt act as a regulator,  so Im not able to ask 
TSB to change the interest rates on the accounts  it provides. My role is to look at whats  
happened and decide whether TSB has acted fairly  and reasonably. 
Having read the email  which  Mr E received from TSB I can understand why he is unhappy  
that the rate of interest  is being  reduced. However,  Im unable  to say that the bank has made 
a mistake. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the general account terms and conditions.  These  set out the types of changes  
the bank can make to the terms and conditions of a particular account.  One of the changes it 
can make  is in relation  to the interest it charges to and pays to account  holders.
The terms and conditions  oblige the bank to give customers at least 2 months notice of any 
interest rate decrease. In Mr Es case,  I can see that hes had sufficient notice of the change.
Im satisfied that the general terms and conditions  allow the bank to amend the terms of the 
account and in particular the rate of interest, provided that the required  notice  is given (which  
it has been).
Ref: DRN74816632I agree  that the wording of the email  when read in isolation  creates  an impression that 
the increased rate of interest  wont be taken away after a year.  However, if the email is read 
in the context of the circumstances in which the increased rate of interest  was awarded, I 
think its clear  that the increase was never intended  to be a permanent increase but was a 
measure designed  to recognise  and compensate  customers  for the poor service received 
following some  issues with the banks computer systems.
I understand Mr Es frustration but Im unable to conclude that the bank has made an error.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7481663