K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society didnt electronically transfer his money as 
he requested. 
background
Mr W had a Fixed Rate Bond (bond) with Nationwide, which  was due to mature  on 1 
December 2018.  On 9 November 2018 it sent Mr W a letter, which  explained that his bond  
was due to mature  and outlined various options  available to him. This correspondence 
enclosed a leaflet  called  receiving your payment electronically.  
On 17 November 2018, Mr W contacted Nationwide to discuss  his options once his bond 
had matured. He instructed  Nationwide to transfer his funds on maturity to another provider, 
Ill call N. Nationwide completed documentation confirming this request. But, instead of 
transferring Mr Ws funds  to N, Nationwide sent him a cheque  about a week  later for the full 
bond amount.
Mr W complained  to Nationwide  about what had happened. He said Nationwide  shouldve  
followed his instructions to electronically transfer his money to N. And he said by not doing 
so he had lost over £250 of interest. So, he asked  Nationwide to reimburse  him for the loss 
of interest and to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  he had experienced as 
a result.  Mr W also complained that Nationwide hadnt told him that he would receive  a 
cheque if his transfer to N was unsuccessful.
After Nationwide  investigated Mr Ws complaint it said it had explained to him that he would 
be sent a cheque in circumstances where the transfer wasnt  successful. And it didnt  think it 
had done anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr W referred this complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into this complaint. But, while they empathised with Mr W, they didnt 
think Nationwide needed to do anything more here. Mr W disagreed and his complaint has 
now been referred to me for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting point  here is that Nationwide should  follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr W gave it instructions to transfer a sum of money  to a 
specific account elsewhere. 
Nationwide told our service that for it to transfer  funds to an external account  it needs to be 
able to validate the details  of the receiving  account.  Here, it said it wasnt able to transfer 
Mr Ws money in accordance with his instructions  because the account he wanted his 
money transferred  into was a savings account. It explained it cant transfer funds to savings 
accounts because  the way in which it validates account details means it can only validate 
current accounts. So, because it couldnt validate  the details of Mr Ws savings account  with 
N it thought there was a risk that the money would be sent to an incorrect  account. And, it 
said this is why a cheque was sent to Mr W instead. 
Ref: DRN71472462I think there was good reason here why Nationwide couldnt follow  Mr Ws instructions.  And 
Im persuaded it was reasonable for it to send him a cheque  in those circumstances. I say 
this because if it had carried out his instructions to transfer his money to N its probable that, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  the funds couldve gone missing. This wouldve caused 
delays in attempting to locate and retrieve Mr Ws money. 
Im satisfied Nationwide followed its processes  correctly  here and issued a cheque  promptly 
once it realised it couldnt transfer his money in the way Mr W wanted. It follows that I cant  
fairly conclude that it acted unfairly or did anything wrong in sending  Mr W a cheque. 
Mr W said he wasnt told he would  be sent a cheque if the transfer to N wasnt successful. 
But Nationwide said that, because it was aware  that N was a savings provider, it explained 
to Mr W that a transfer most likely  would  be unsuccessful  and that a cheque would be sent 
instead. Nationwide said the individual who dealt with Mr W was able to recall the discussion 
they had within him about the transfer and that they clearly remembered making Mr W aware  
of this risk. They stated that Mr W instructed Nationwide  to proceed with the transfer to N 
notwithstanding the explanation he was given. So, while Ive carefully considered what both 
Nationwide and Mr W say here, I think its most  likely  that he was informed a cheque  would 
be sent to him in circumstances where an electronic transfer was unsuccessful.
I also think Nationwide clearly explains how a customer can receive  their maturity money 
electronically in receiving  your maturity money  electronically leaflet. This document 
explains that if a customer decides to withdraw their funds once their bond  matures they can 
choose to transfer  this money electronically  to their current account. It doesnt say funds can 
be sent to a savings account and it tells customers that if an electronic payment cant be 
made a cheque will be sent as soon as possible.
So while I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feelings about this complaint, for the reasons set 
out above, I dont  think  that Nationwide has done  anything wrong  here. Its acted fairly and 
reasonably. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7147246