K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) used the compensation 
to settle her complaint about mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to off-set against 
debt on her account.
background
Mrs Y took out a loan (ended 7120) in August  1992.  The loan ended in September 1996. In 
May 2011 she entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement  (IVA) with her creditors. The 
insolvency practitioner confirmed that the IVA had come to an end in May 2015 and it no 
longer had any interest in any PPI refund due.
RBS offered to settle Mrs Ys mis-sale complaint about the PPI and wrote to Mrs Y in June 
2018 offering  compensation  for her PPI complaint  in relation to loan ended 7120.  It 
calculated an amount which was due to her in compensation. But instead  of paying it directly  
to Mrs Y, RBS said it would use the compensation due to set against the debt Mrs Y owed 
on her account. RBS provided  a copy of an acceptance form which Mrs Y signed in July 
2018.The redress was paid to off-set  the debt still outstanding on Mrs Ys account  in August 
2018.
In her complaint to this service, Mrs Y told us she was unhappy because  RBS used the PPI 
compensation to off-set  against an old debt that was already with RBS when she was in the 
IVA. Mrs Y says she took out the PPI many years  before she started her IVA, she was no 
longer in an IVA and her debt had been  discharged. So Mrs Y didnt  think  it was fair that 
RBS had used  the compensation due to set against  any debt. Mrs Y thought it should be 
treated separately  from her previous completed IVA and any compensation due should be 
paid to her directly.
Our adjudicator said that he thought that RBS had acted fairly in off-setting 
the compensation against any debt due to it. Mrs Y disagreed with this view and asked that 
the complaint  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has offered to settle Mrs Ys complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So Im not looking at 
how the PPI was sold to Mrs Y. Mrs Y also hasnt complained  about  the amount  of redress 
due. So in this decision I am only looking at whether off-setting the amount of compensation 
due against a debt she owed RBS was fair.
Having looked  at this complaint Im satisfied  that RBS has acted fairly. I will explain why.
Following the discharge of Mrs Ys IVA, RBS has sent paperwork to show that a debt that of 
£4,116.76 remained  unpaid to RBS. In June 2018 when RBS wrote to Mrs Y and when 
Mrs Y signed the acceptance letter in July 2018 to accept this offer,  the paperwork stated If I 
am , or have been , subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA),...any payment will 
be made to the relevant account  I hold with you I understand  that the offer will take into 
arrears on my account. I am aware that it is possible  for the account  to remain in 
arrears
Ref: DRN70839032In this case RBS retained the PPI compensation to set against the outstanding debt that was 
not paid when the IVA ended.  This was confirmed  to Mrs Y in a letter  dated 3 August 2018 
when RBS wrote to confirm that the full amount of the compensation was used to reduce the 
outstanding debt she owed. 
RBS can set off Mrs Ys compensation, which is a debt it owes to her, against any debts 
Mrs Y owed to RBS that formed  part of the IVA. So it can apply any payment (including any 
interest) due it has worked  out for Mrs Ys PPI compensation, to reduce or pay in full the 
debts owed by Mrs Y to RBS. Mrs Y says that the PPI was taken out some time before her 
IVA and her IVA included  any debts  due to RBS. And she says as her IVA had come to an 
end, RBS shouldnt  have used her compensation to off-set her debt.
Ive thought about what Mrs Y has said but RBS can also set off any redress against  a 
customers arrears  with RBS even if Mrs Y had a discharged IVA. 
Although following the discharge  of her IVA, RBS couldnt chase Mrs Y for the debt 
outstanding; the debt still existed with RBS. These debts werent cancelled even when she 
completed her IVA in 2015. The completion  of the IVA has no effect on debts owed or the 
rights or interests of any creditors. So RBS still had the right to use the PPI redress  to 
reduce the debt on her account.
In the circumstances I think RBS acted  fairly  in off-setting  any compensation against any 
debt Mrs Y still owed even though her IVA had been completed.  Im sorry to disappoint  
Mrs Y.
my final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc acted  fairly  in off-setting Mrs Ys PPI redress  against the 
outstanding balance on her account.  So The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt need  to do 
anything further  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083903