K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied 
for the credit card and PPI policy in branch.  
At the time,  Miss M was employed  as a Purchasing Manager. She has told us she was 
entitled to more than six months,  but less than twelve months sick pay and she had some 
savings. She may also have been  entitled  to some redundancy  pay. Miss M has said she 
had a medical condition that had occurred some  four years prior to the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment and also life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Miss Ms credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in August 2006.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ms representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss M about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN79356542Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN79356543Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN79356544Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
I cannot know what may have been  said to Miss M in the meeting about  the PPI being 
optional. But on the credit card application  form that Miss M signed there is a section to take 
out the PPI. This requires a tick to indicate the PPI is required. I can see that the box has 
been ticked and also the section for taking out the PPI initialled by Miss M, next to the ticked 
box. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely that Miss M knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale and Miss M hasnt indicated she can recall  if 
advice was given  or not. As the sale took place in branch, and BoS say this sale would have 
been advised, I am satisfied that BoS did provide advice  to Miss M.
This means  BoS had to advise  Miss M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss M. It seems  Miss M cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss Ms financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss M would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Miss M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss M given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss M met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Ive seen nothing  to indicate  the monthly  cost of the policy wasnt  affordable for 
Miss M. 
Ref: DRN79356545-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss M. There  
was nothing about Miss Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical condition Miss M has told us 
about this occurred in 1997 and was treated with pain killers. She had this condition 
before the sale, but this doesnt  appear to be caught by the specific  terms and 
conditions on limitations and exclusions as it did not occur  or have treatment  in the 
12 months before the policy started. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Miss Ms 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss M was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss M would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss M would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. The application form she signed also described  
the policy as a credit card repayment insurance scheme,  which  would have given her some  
idea of what the policy was for. 
Im also satisfied from the credit card application  that Miss M ought reasonably to have 
understood that the policy cost 78p per £100 of the statement balance  if she was not also 
told this by the adviser during the discussion.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss M 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Miss M might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision  
on the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss M. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Miss M all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN79356546In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Miss M? To what extent did Miss M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss M, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss M would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss M says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. I have considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
Ref: DRN79356547she could buy that would  protect her credit card payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss M ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10%  as this was set out on the 
reverse of the application  form and in the section she completed to select  the PPI it referred 
her to the information.  But I accept that BoS didnt make clear the on-going  cost information. 
So while Miss M didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful 
claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  
she based her decision  to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  that had occurred in the 
12 months prior to the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to mental  health conditions;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Miss M turned 65.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking out 
the policy. 
The evidence about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Miss M says she had a medical condition prior 
to the PPI being taken out, the policy didnt exclude cover for existing medical conditions 
unless they had occurred within 12 months of the start date. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Miss M wouldve been caught by this or any of the significant 
exclusions. So I still think she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept mental health conditions  are common problems and limitations on claims for these 
conditions were more  onerous than Miss M might  reasonably have expected.  And while the 
limitations might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to 
Miss M from taking out the policy, Miss M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons 
to take it out.
Miss M has complained that if shed reached  65 while the policy was in place - she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. Miss M was 59 when she took out the PPI, so I 
think its more likely  than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of having the 
Ref: DRN79356548PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time before she turned 65. And 
the policy would end when She turned 65 so She would stop paying for it at this time. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was and I think the policy could provide a useful  benefit  in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding her employment benefits  and other means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss M would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Miss M wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Miss M compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss M thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Ref: DRN79356549BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss M and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935654