K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Vanquis Bank Limited sold his outstanding balance to a debt collection 
agency.
background
From July 2014 until June  2016, Mr I had his credit card account with Vanquis  frozen under 
a repayment option plan (ROP). On 10 March 2016, Vanquis wrote  to Mr I informing him that 
he had three  months left and that in June 2016  his ROP would come to an end.
After Mr Is ROP ended  he didnt make the required monthly repayments to his account. And 
he didnt put another arrangement in place to assist  him in repaying his balance.
So, in December 2016, Vanquis  appointed a debt collection  agency, Ill call M, to collect the 
balance Mr I owed. M wrote to Mr I on numerous occasions. But it wasnt able to agree a 
repayment plan with Mr I and he didnt make any payments  to his account.
In March 2017 Vanquis instructed another debt collection agency, Ill call D, to collect the 
money he owed Vanquis. D wrote to Mr I on multiple occasions asking him to agree an 
affordable arrangement to pay the debt he owed. But Mr I didnt make any payments to his 
account.
So, on 11 December 2017  Vanquis wrote to Mr I to inform him that it had sold his debt to a 
debt collection agency, Ill call L. L also wrote to Mr I to explain that he now owed the 
outstanding balance to it instead.
Mr I wasnt happy with what  had happened. So he referred  his complaint to us. He told our 
investigator he didnt  think Vanquis  shouldve sold his account to a debt collection agency. 
But, while our investigator empathised with Mr I they didnt think  Vanquis  had done  anything 
wrong or treated Mr I unfairly.  So they didnt uphold Mr Is complaint.  But Mr I disagreed  and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Mr Is situation,  having  considered everything  that he and Vanquis 
have said, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Mr I feels very strongly  about  this matter, which is understandable. And I 
appreciate the reasons why he has brought his complaint to us. But what  I must  determine 
here is whether  Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr I told our service  that he thought his account  balance had increased during the time he 
was under an ROP. But Im satisfied that during that period Mr Is account didnt incur any 
interest or charges. And I think Mr Is account was managed correctly in accordance  with the 
terms of the ROP while it was operational. I say this because Ive seen Mr Is credit card 
statements, which confirm this. 
When this agreement ended interest  and charges began to apply to Mr Is account. And Mr I 
was told he would need to make monthly payments as directed by Vanquis. I note from Mr 
Ref: DRN76626172Is statements that the majority of charges that were  applied  after the ROP ended were  
because Mr I didnt make any monthly  payments or put an arrangement in place to pay 
reduced monthly instalments after his ROP ended. He also incurred some over limit charges, 
which were due to the interest causing him to exceed his credit limit facility.  This explains 
why the balance on Mr Is account increased after his ROP ended.
Having seen the terms and conditions of Mr Is account Im satisfied Vanquis was entitled  to 
charge the fees and interest it applied to his account  balance in these circumstances. From 
what Ive seen, Im persuaded Vanquis acted  in line with these terms. So, I dont think it did 
anything wrong  in applying these charges or asking Mr I to make monthly payments to his 
account.
Im satisfied Mr I was aware of when  his ROP agreement  was due to end. So, he knew he 
was required to make monthly payments as directed by Vanquis in the absence of another  
payment plan. I say this because Ive seen evidence that Vanquis  wrote to Mr I on 10 March 
2016 to inform him that his ROP would be ending in June  2016. And Vanquis wrote to him 
on 29 August 2016, after Mr I had missed  payments  in July and August, to explain that his 
account was overdue  and that it required immediate payment.  
The following  month, Vanquis wrote to Mr I on several occasions to ask him to contact  it to 
set up an arrangement to pay the arrears on his account. And, in its correspondence, 
Vanquis told Mr I to contact it if he was having  difficulties  in making payments and outlined a 
number of ways  in which payment could be made. 
Mr I contacted Vanquis to propose a monthly payment of £4 due to his financial 
circumstances. Vanquis  responded by requesting evidence so it could consider Mr Is 
proposal. I think it was reasonable for Vanquis  to request evidence from Mr I  especially 
given the low monthly payment he was offering compared to how much he owed.  On 6 
September 2016 Vanquis told Mr I an ROP  couldnt be set up as it had already been in place 
for the maximum 24 month period. So, it asked him to contact it to discuss  how he was able 
to pay his balance.  
By October  2016  Mr I hadnt been  able to agree with Vanquis how he would pay the 
outstanding balance. So, Vanquis  wrote  again to tell Mr I that if he didnt  make  a suitable 
payment arrangement a notice of default  would be issued. And, on 19 October  2016  Vanquis 
wrote to Mr I to explain it had defaulted  his account. By this point  Vanquis  hadnt received 
any payments from Mr I or been  able to successfully set up a payment plan with him. 
Im satisfied that before it defaulted  his account, Vanquis proactively tried for a significant 
period of time to get a response  from Mr I. I think Vanquis tried to work  with Mr I to help him 
to repay  the balance  he owed. Ill explain why.
Ive already commented on the letters it sent to him from March 2016 onwards  in which  
Vanquis confirmed  the status of his account.  Theres no evidence that Mr I didnt receive this 
correspondence or that the letters were returned to Vanquis undelivered. And Im also 
satisfied that Mr I wouldve been  receiving statements  confirming his account balance and 
the minimum payments  he was required to make each month. Mr I hasnt  told our service  he 
didnt receive these. So, Im persuaded that Mr I understood what was required of him.
I can also see that Vanquis tried to contact Mr I regularly  by telephone in August  and 
September 2016 to discuss his account. It sent regular texts to Mr I during August 2016.  So, 
Ref: DRN76626173I think Vanquis made reasonable efforts to attempt  to contact  Mr I to discuss  payment of the 
balance he owed before  it defaulted  his account.  
And I also think Vanquis took appropriate  steps to offer support and explain what would 
happen if his account wasnt brought up to date. It follows that I cant say it acted unfairly 
when it defaulted  his account  and passed  it to a debt collection agency. By this point Mr I 
had missed 4 monthly payments to his account.  I understand  that after Vanquis defaulted Mr 
Is account no further interest or charges were added,  which is fair and reasonable. 
After Vanquis defaulted Mr Is account it appointed  M to collect  the balance he owed on its 
behalf. In March 2017 this debt was transferred to D before being  sold to L in November 
2017. Ive seen evidence that M and D tried to work with Mr I to set up an affordable 
payment arrangement to help him pay his balance. And I note that D even offered Mr I the 
option of clearing his debt by paying  half the amount owed.
Because Mr I didnt make any payments Vanquis decided  to sell Mr Is account to L. I 
recognise that Mr I is unhappy  that the outstanding debt was passed to a debt collection 
agency. But this is in accordance with the terms and conditions  Ive seen which  say:
We may instruct any other  person to exercise our rights  or carry out our responsibilities  
under this agreement  e.g., we could instruct a debt collection  agency to assist  in recovering 
any amounts owed to us.
So, I think its clear Mr I was warned this could  happen . Im satisfied Vanquis was entitled to 
instruct a third party, such as L to recover what he owed it. It acted reasonably  and didnt do 
anything wrong  in doing so. Asking a debt collection agency to recover  money owed is a 
commercial decision a business is entitled  to take if it wishes  especially where no 
repayment plan had been agreed and there have been no payments made. Its common 
practice for businesses to take this action  so that agents can take over, as they are generally 
more able to be more flexible with the payments and amounts  theyre  able to accept  without 
any further charges  or interest being  applied.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr I brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I dont think Vanquis  has done anything  wrong 
here and, because of this, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662617