K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr T has complained to us that the Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold him 
the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and was of the view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, Mr T met those rules. This meant that he could have 
claimed on the policy if he needed to.
Next, Ive considered  whether RBS made it sufficiently clear  to Mr T that the PPI was 
optional. Mr T completed a form when applying  for his card. The form had a section about 
the PPI which  asked him to tick to show whether he wanted to take out the PPI. However,  
Mr T told us that it wasnt made  clear to him that the policy was optional. He presumed  that 
he had to tick for the PPI. 
The relevant  section stated:
For cover just tick this box.
Mr T told us he wasnt clear about the purpose of the tick box. But the section had a 
prominent heading which read;  PAYMENT PROTECTION.  Having read the form, I think  its 
most likely that Mr T would have known  the PPI was optional, because he would have 
known that it was open to him to leave the box blank. So on balance,  I think RBS made  it 
clear that Mr T didnt have  to take out the policy and it was his decision to take it out.
In addition RBS was required to give Mr T information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so he could make the decision for himself about  whether or not to take the policy. Mr T told 
us that he didnt need the policy because if hed been too ill to work, he would have been 
entitled to six months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. 
Its possible the information that RBS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. In 
addition, given his circumstances  I dont think that he would have been affected  by the main 
exclusions and restrictions under the terms and conditions.  And looking at the cost of the 
Ref: DRN77594242policy, it was comparable  to the cost of similar policies available at the time.  So on balance, I 
dont think having  better  information would have discouraged Mr T from taking out the PPI.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so the Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But the Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7759424