K820x#14Complaint
Miss C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Miss C bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done that, I have  not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss C said she wasnt  given  a choice about buying PPI when she applied for her card by 
post. Because of all the time thats  passed,  HSBC dont still have a copy of her original 
application. But I have  looked carefully at sample  copies of the paperwork for this type of 
sale from the time of Miss Cs application.  From  what  Ive seen, it looks like the form 
wouldve offered  her the choice to take or turn down PPI, and in order  to get the policy  
Miss C wouldve had to actively choose it. So I think its most likely that HSBC made Miss C 
aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
HSBC didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss C, so they didnt  have to check if it was right for 
her. They did have to give Miss C enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information HSBC  gave Miss C about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Miss C was eligible  for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations. While  she had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those  
and given Miss C more comprehensive cover. So the policy  couldve been useful for her in 
case something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss C 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN75368532My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7536853