K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained about her property insurer, CIS General Insurance  Limited,  in relation 
to a claim she made to it following a water leak.
background
In March 2017 Ms C found a leaking pipe in her kitchen (situated below ground). CIS 
accepted the claim and a loss adjuster visited Ms Cs home in early  April. In May 2017 CISs 
contractors began stripping the property and by July 2017 it was felt to be dry.
Ms C was living in the property with her family but the floor finishes in several  rooms  had 
been lifted and their belongings were stacked  everywhere. CIS began paying a disturbance  
allowance because Ms C could only cook using a microwave.
Into September work  hadnt  started  and then the contractor  said the kitchen had a damp 
problem. It said Ms C had to carry out tanking work to the walls. This delayed things and 
reinstatement work was put on hold until January 2018. Further problems arose and the 
reinstatement work  didnt  start until September 2018.
In June 2018 Ms C and her family had been housed elsewhere. They  returned home 
following completion of repairs in November 2018.
During the course of the claim CIS issued four final responses to Ms C, two of which after 
shed already complained to us. CIS asked that we deal with everything as one complaint. In 
summary Ms Cs concerns were; how long the claim took,  that it was poorly handled 
throughout and that she was forced to carry out unnecessary tanking work.
CISs responses can be summarised as follows:
 There were  no avoidable delays caused  by it between March and July 2017.
 It did cause delays  between then and October 2017, so it paid £750.
 It would  pay for a drainage inspection but felt any issues with the tanking were  down to 
the work Ms C had carried out and not for it to resolve. It didnt think  there was any 
needed for alternative accommodation to be provided as, following  the strip out work, 
Ms C had been left with a working kitchen.
 Ms Cs property had likely  always been  damp, it just hadnt been noticed before.
CIS did also, around March 2018, offer a further  £300 compensation. But it then said it was 
withdrawing that offer. However, Ms C told our investigator that she had ripped up a cheque  
for £300 that she had received from CIS.
Our investigator felt that CIS should reimburse  Ms Cs costs  for the tanking work, plus 
interest. She also felt it should pay a further £1,000  compensation.
CIS noted it had already paid a total of £1,050 compensation  (£750 in October 2017 and
£300 in April 2018. But it agreed to the investigators suggested settlement.
Ms C said she felt the work should  have been  completed by July 2017. So in her view shed 
spent more than a year resolving the claim which could all have been avoided,  along with all 
the upset that went with it. Ms C said that really,  the compensation  would only cover extra 
costs shed had regarding replacing a fire surround  and a washing machine, the first lost and 
Ref: DRN73911782the other damaged during  the claim. Further, because of the tanking, she couldnt replace 
the fire surround  on a like-for-like basis.
Our investigator asked  Ms C for more  details regarding the washing machine and fireplace 
and these were provided. Our investigator  advised that, in order  to take these two new 
issues into account, the ombudsman would likely issue a provisional  decision. I did just that 
and, having told the parties I felt the complaint  should be upheld, I also issued some further 
findings regarding  the fireplace. My provisional  and further findings were:
my provisional findings
CISs first final response stated that there were, in its view, no avoidable  delays to that point. 
Having seen its loss adjusters file, Im satisfied that is not the case.  I think  there  were  at 
least three weeks of delay caused  by:
The leak detection company CIS appointed not receiving the instruction (this also caused 
Ms C to arrange  for this herself).
Testing the hall and kitchen floor for asbestos at different  times  (rather than together).
The reinstatement  contractor ignoring  an asbestos report.
On 14 July the property was found  to be dry. CIS has accepted that delays occurred in the 
months after this. I can see that despite  instructions being given by and to the loss adjuster 
to manage the claim so as to avoid delays  this just didnt happen. So Ms Cs material  
choices hadnt  been obtained by the time the drying completed, and start dates, along  with 
necessary specialists hadnt  been  arranged either. Then the contractors wanted to do more 
work but their request  wasnt picked up by the loss adjuster. From Ms Cs perspective  the 
contractors left site one day and she received no update or explanation until around three  
weeks later.  When the loss adjuster  did pick up this request it noted that no costs for the 
additional work had been submitted  and it had to chase the contractor for this. The 
contractor should  have known that any additional costs would have required authorisation.
On 24 August the additional costs were  approved  and work was booked  to start on
4 September 2017. But only after further  chasing  by Ms C and the loss adjuster. The work 
didnt seem to get very far before it stopped again.  Some enquiries were made around  this 
time about a possible external drainage problem that Ms C might have to fix. On
20 September Ms C called the loss adjuster again to find out what  was happening and why 
the contractors had not been back. She asked for the contractor to be changed. The loss 
adjuster noted  this request but by the end of October it, and the company managing the 
works, were still debating the issue.
For the period  from July to October, and despite  some protestations by the contractor, CIS 
accepted it had failed Ms C. It offered  £750  compensation.  During this time the loss adjuster 
had also accepted that Ms C had been  unable to use the kitchen since  8 May 2017 and had 
started paying a disturbance allowance. The fact the kitchen couldnt be used was also 
reflected in a contractors  report issued in August 2017. Despite this, when the state  of the 
house came  up for review  in CIS third final response issued in March 2018, CIS found  that 
Ms Cs kitchen had been usable. It seems this finding was based  on information received  
from its strip out contractor in May 2017.  If that had been the only evidence then I might 
have understood  CIS position.  But in light of all the evidence it had available I think its 
conclusion was unreasonable.  Im also conscious of the report  that it was difficult  to move  
around the house because floor finishings had been lifted, making the floors  uneven and 
items were stored and stacked throughout. The adjuster noted that this made things 
Ref: DRN73911783particularly difficult in Ms Cs circumstances given that two of her children use walking  aids.
By mid-October 2017 there were  still delays occurring with the contractor and there was still 
no start date for works. The start date was then set for the end of October 2017. In a
pre-start assessment  visit on 23 October  the contractor found that all the walls in the kitchen 
were damp. The contractor said Ms C was going  to find a contractor to resolve this. Ms C 
has complained  that the contractor recommended someone but then further delays 
occurred. She had the work done  in December and in January sent proof of the work so the 
insured reinstatement  work could resume. Regarding November and December it isnt clear 
who caused delays.  But the claim was clearly  delayed by the contractors to the point on
23 October when the damp was found.
Even in finding  the damp I think CIS failed Ms C. No formal report  was done on the damp at 
this time. Only its contractor gave  advice, and that verbally to Ms C. Ms C is convinced the 
walls were only damp due to the protective  floor layers having  been stripped out. I think that, 
given internal walls were affected  as well as external, she may have a point. But it also 
seems clear  that there  was no initial issue with drying the property  I think its likely that if 
the property had been inherently damp from the outset this would have  prevented it from 
being dried. So either leaving  the property with no damp protection over five or six months 
caused the walls to become damp   in which case sealing the floor and drying would have 
resolved the issue.  Or, something had changed outside the property in the interim since  it 
had been dried, and in that event  CIS couldnt have completed the insured repairs without 
resolving the damp. Meaning either way CIS is responsible  for the cost of tanking that Ms C 
carried out. I think CIS needs to reimburse  her costs, plus interest* from the date Ms C paid 
for the work  until settlement is made.
Once the work to the walls was done  the floor needed drying. Given its protective layer had 
been lifted the year before  and the property had been left without protection  on the flooring 
through the winter months it doesnt  surprise me that further drying  was required. But this 
could have been avoided if the claim had been  handled better. I also note that, at one stage 
at least, CIS felt it wasnt  responsible for reinstating the floor  despite all the expert  reports  
and knowledge  that it had lifted the damp  protection during the strip out works.  It did 
eventually accept liability for doing  this and that happened sometime  after the floor was 
found to be dry in late March 2018.
Having to organise and carry out this work, and deal with getting the floor sorted afterwards
 including  further drying, all caused  further  upset for Ms C and delay for the claim. Ill be 
taking that into account when I look at compensation.
On top of that, whilst  CIS did cover the cost of damp proofing the floor, it said it was only 
doing so as a goodwill gesture. That despite  it having removed  the previous protection  as 
part of the strip out works. Into April CIS began  looking to move Ms C and her family out of 
the home and it also became apparent that protecting the property wasnt going to be as 
simple as sealing the floor. Further expert  advice  on the issue had to be sought. In my view,  
whilst I accept that such expertise was necessary,  all of this could have  been  investigated 
and organised whilst the floor was being  dried. It was 17 May 2018 before a report was 
obtained and 25 June 2018  before the loss adjuster reported back with an update on what  
this meant  for the claim and Ms C. I think further delay occurred as result of this and I can 
understand that Ms Cs frustration around  this time was intense.
Not least because the response  from the adjuster was to tell Ms C that CIS expected her to 
pay a further £4,286.80  towards preventative repairs that were  felt to be necessary in order  
Ref: DRN73911784for the insured work to be carried out (it felt her tanking work needed rectifying). The adjuster 
said that in light of this, and that the accommodation Ms C was staying in was only on a six 
month lease, it felt a cash settlement should be offered to allow her to resolve all the work.
After everything that had happened I completely understand  the immense upset this caused 
Ms C. And the adjuster  even wrote in the email that without  the preventative work the repairs  
wouldnt be effective. Insurers and the loss adjusters that work for them know that carrying 
out a satisfactory  repair means ensuring  the repairs are effective. Attempting to make  Ms C 
pay for preventative  works and trying  to settle in cash at this point, for this reason, was in my 
view unfair  and unreasonable.
It seems  that whilst the damp issue was being investigated Ms C had been  left to try and find 
somewhere else to live and this proved difficult. Some  input from a policyholder is needed  in 
this respect  but I think some better assistance could and should have been given to Ms C 
in the position she was in here. On top of that, during a call on 12 April the loss adjuster  told 
Ms C that it was still waiting for her to carry out the tanking work.  Ms C was clearly and 
understandably very upset and frustrated by this comment. When  she emailed the loss 
adjuster regarding this, and the problems she was having finding somewhere to live, further  
assistance was given.
By 1 May a property had been found  and authorisation  for booking  was granted by the loss 
adjuster. It was also agreed that CIS would pay for everything  including the deposit.  This is 
something the insurer usually expects the policyholder to pay as its purpose is to ensure  the 
property is well maintained. Unfortunately, due to a change in circumstances of the landlord 
of this property, the booking  fell through. I accept this must have been wholly frustrating for 
Ms C, but it isnt something I can blame  CIS for. A property was found in June 2018 and the 
family moved out of their home.
CIS did then agree to finish the works, rather than settle in cash. Further delays occurred 
over the summer  months and work finally started  in mid-September 2018. I can see that 
meetings were needed during this period  and that trying to arrange all the different relevant 
persons was somewhat difficult.  I see new scopes  were  needed  too. But this claim had 
already gone on for far too long  a further  three months before starting,  at this point was, in 
my view, unfair.
The works were completed  though before the lease on the accommodation ran out and
Ms C and her family moved home on 23 November 2018. In my view, this claim took far too 
long and in the main  due to failures and delays by CIS. If it had been  handled  better from the 
outset with more  forward  planning and an acceptance that it needed to carry out 
preventative works, I dont  see why, and given the property was initially  found to be dry in 
July 2017, works shouldnt reasonably  have  complete by the end of March  2018.
Over a period  of months during the claim there was also an issue with a missing key for the 
house. This was reported by Ms C and the contractor confirmed it couldnt find the key. Ms C 
asked that the locks  were replaced  but nothing was authorised  until May 2018. On
29 May 2018 the adjuster  told Ms C she could either have the locks changed and provide a 
receipt for reimbursement, or the reinstatement  contractors  would  do it when they started  
work. The adjuster  accepted this should have been done  before. I accept  this caused Ms C 
some worry.
During the claim  some contents items went missing. Ms C worried theyd been  stolen. The 
contractor confirmed  this hadnt happened. CIS paid for replacements.  I think  Ms Cs items 
could have  been  better looked after and she was likely caused some  frustration with things 
Ref: DRN73911785coming up missing.  But I note that replacement costs  for these items  were  offered with little 
question by the adjuster. I think that was a reasonable  response in the circumstances.
Ms C has also reported that her washing machine  was damaged  and that she had to replace 
her fire surround. Also that she cant put the same  type of fire surround back in.
I can see the loss adjuster  considered  whether to pay for a replacement  washing machine. 
But whilst Ms C reported that she thought the removers had damaged  it, it had been 
disposed of without  proof  of the fault being  determined. I think  the adjusters refusal to pay 
for this was reasonable. And in saying that Im aware that Ms C herself  reports that the 
machine was old and coming towards  the end of its life anyway. So it isnt clear  that it was 
most likely damaged by the removers.
Ms C says the fire surround  she had was cast iron and heavy. It was placed outside  during  
the works  and disappeared, presumed taken by a scrap merchant. The contractors  should  
have taken better care of the item. If Ms Cs costs  for purchasing a replacement  havent 
been reimbursed  by CIS I think it they should be. I know Ms C had to buy a different type of 
surround as the tanked walls wont allow for a cast iron type surround to be put in place.
That is unfortunate and I know it upsets Ms C that she cant  have a surround of her choice  in 
the room anymore. But its by no means clear that the tanking was unnecessary.  Its possible 
the damp in the walls was caused  because the floor protection  was lifted,  but its equally 
possible that something had changed  meaning the flat was now subject to damp. As there 
are two likely  possibilities, one of which isnt CISs  fault, I cant reasonably blame it for the 
upset the different surround caused Ms C.
Having taken everything into account, and given how much Ms C has been through  I do 
think total compensation of £2,000 is fairly  and reasonably due.
I note that CIS thinks it has already paid £1,050 of this sum. Im not persuaded this is the 
case. The only references Ive seen to the £300  (plus £750 making up the total of £1,050)  
are set out in my background. Whilst what exactly happened regarding this amount being 
offered and/or paid is unclear, Im satisfied that Ms C hasnt had the benefit of that sum. 
Unless CIS can show me otherwise, and if my final decision remains the same and Ms C 
accepts it, it will have to pay her £1,250  (my award  of £2,000 less the £750 Im satisfied it 
has already paid).
My further findings regarding the fireplace
Ms C told us shed spent around  £250 on a new fireplace.  She said shed bought  the basics  
from a supplier and bought  materials  to finish/finesse it. She said she didnt have receipts  
but could evidence the purchase on her bank  statement, which  she sent to us. Ms C pointed  
to two relevant  transactions  from early November 2018 which  totalled  £276.09.  
I know the reinstatement work was finishing off in November 2018, with the family  returning 
home later that month. And it makes sense that Ms C would have wanted this issue 
resolving at that time. With everything  going  on I can understand why receipts arent  
available. I havent  seen anything that makes me think Ms C didnt  purchase  or install  a 
fireplace. Whilst Ill consider any comment CIS has to make  on this, if it should  have any 
objection it wants to raise, Im currently minded to make it reimburse  this cost, plus interest.
Ms C said she was happy with the awards  Id suggested: reimbursement of the tanking and 
fireplace costs, plus interest,  and an additional £1,250  compensation. CIS said it had no 
Ref: DRN73911786comment to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties are happy with my provisional  findings, or at least havent raised any objection  
to them,  I see no reason to move  away from them. My provisional findings, including those 
made regarding  the fireplace, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require CIS General Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Ms Cs cost to tank her kitchen, plus interest* from the date she paid for the 
work until settlement is made.
Reimburse Ms Cs cost to replace her fire surround  £276.09, plus interest* from the 
date she paid the sums that make up this amount (£146.09, 6 November 2018 and 
£130.00 on 13 November 2018),  until settlement is made.
Pay Ms C an additional £1,250 compensation (making my total award  £2,000).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If CIS General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms C, 
it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7391178