K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
Mr As son has assisted  Mr A on his behalf  throughout  his dealings with Advantage and our 
service. But for ease of reference I shall refer to Mr As sons  actions as being  those of Mr A.
background
In May 2017, Mr A took out car insurance  with Advantage through  a price comparison 
website. He said he had been resident in the UK all his life and that he wasnt involved in 
any accidents in the past five years. His premium for the policy  year was set on that basis.
But a few weeks later Mr A called Advantage and told them that he hadnt been  resident in 
the UK since  birth and that he was involved in an accident in the past five years that wasnt 
his fault. Advantage then amended the policy with the new information  and charged Mr A 
two lots of additional premiums.  But Advantage  also told Mr A that he could cancel the policy 
on the basis of the original premium if he wanted to. But Mr A decided to pay the additional  
premiums and continue  with the policy.
Mr A later complained saying the increase in premium was excessive  and Advantages 
pricing policy on residency was discriminatory. Advantage looked into his complaint but 
didnt uphold  it.
Mr A didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that Advantage had treated Mr A fairly as he was given the 
opportunity to cancel  the policy on the basis of the original premium. Mr A didnt agree and 
said he didnt realise he was being charged two sets of additional premiums, one for the 
correction of the residency date and one for the no fault accident. As Mr A didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr A has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Mr A believes the increase to his premium was excessive and discriminatory given it was 
based on the place of his birth.  He also felt it was unfair for his premium to increase because  
of a past accident that wasnt his fault. It might help if I explain that we're not the industry 
regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their 
policies. And our service  generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that 
Ref: DRN72822562is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled  to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr As premium  did go up significantly. So I can understand why he was concerned. But just 
because Mr As premium has increased,  I don't think that means  that Advantage have 
treated him unfairly. Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr As premium  
has increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr A. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr A in the same way as it 
would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated his premium 
reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr A thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium  
because he hadnt  lived in the UK since birth. But each  insurer will have their own methods 
of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  insurers think  an individual  who hasnt lived in 
the UK since  birth presents a higher  risk than people who have. But other insurers might not 
think the same. Likewise  some insurers say that statistically policyholders involved in non-
fault accidents are at a higher risk of being  involved in accidents in the future. As insurance  
is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  And Im aware  
that Advantage don't calculate premiums based  on where the policyholder  was born,  only on 
how long theyve lived in the UK. So they dont consider  a customers  nationality  or race.  So 
I think a British citizen born and raised abroad  who becomes resident in the UK later on in 
life would be treated  in the same way as Mr A, so I cant  say Mr A has been  singled out or 
treated differently to others in similar circumstances. 
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mr A did amounted to, what is known in the insurance 
industry, a careless  misrepresentation, although  he did correct it soon after.  And theres 
specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise  have applied). But if the consumer 
isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy  themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium. But we think  its fair 
for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of paying the additional premium allowing 
the insurer to settle any future claim in full instead  of settling the claim proportionately.  But 
that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
CIDRA also gives the insurer the option  of cancelling  the policy where  there has been  a 
careless misrepresentation.  But we think its fair for an insurer  to explain to the consumer 
Ref: DRN72822563theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep 
the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves.  Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder  because  they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
In Mr As case, when  he contacted Advantage to correct the errors  he was told the policy  
could be cancelled on the basis of the original premium if thats what he wanted to do. But 
Mr A didnt want that and paid to continue the existing policy. I think if Mr A was unhappy 
with the additional premiums he could  have taken up Advantages offer to cancel the policy 
and he could have  looked elsewhere  for alternative cover, but he didnt do that. Mr A said 
that he wasnt aware he had been charged  two lots of premiums  until he saw his bank  
statement. But Ive listened to the calls and I think Advantage made it clear that they were  
charging Mr A two lots of premiums, so I dont  think they have done anything  wrong.  Once 
Mr A discovered what he had been charged  he could have cancelled the policy  in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, but he didnt.
Finally, I dont think Advantage  told Mr A about  the option of continuing  the policy without 
him paying an additional premium on the condition that they would only settle  any future 
claims on a proportionate basis. But I dont think Mr A was disadvantaged  by that as I dont 
think he would have  accepted that option  had he been told about it. In my experience of 
similar cases, policyholders tend to find that option undesirable given they may face having  
to pay substantial amounts if the insurer would only cover a proportion of a large claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
   
Ref: DRN7282256