K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited  (NFU)  
didnt treat her fairly when  she made a claim on her motor  insurance. Her representative 
Mr C says that it didnt offer a fair valuation for her car that was written off, and didnt handle  
her claim in a sensitive or timely  way.
background
Mrs S insured her car with NFU.  Unfortunately she was involved in an accident which wasnt 
her fault,  and her car was so badly damaged it wasnt economic to repair.  So it was written 
off, and NFU offered £8,600  in settlement of her claim.
On her behalf, Mr C didnt accept that. He said her car was a limited  edition one which  was 
hard to replace. It was in immaculate  condition  before the accident. He said it would cost 
over £10,000 to replace. He provided evidence in the form of adverts for sale of similar cars 
and a letter  from a car dealer. 
NFU reconsidered the claim  and offered  £9,000. Mr C didnt  accept that, but eventually said 
he would  settle  for £9,500 plus compensation. NFU didnt change  its valuation and so Mr C 
complained on Mrs Ss behalf, both about  the valuation and what he considered to be delays 
and other  problems in its handling of the claim. He said the handling  of the claim had 
worsened the upset  Mrs S had felt following the accident.
Our investigator thought NFUs valuation was a fair one, and she didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in the handling  of the claim,  so Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ss policy say that in the event her car is damaged beyond 
economic repair, NFU will pay her the market  value. Marked  value  is defined  as
The amount  it would cost to replace  the car with one of the same make,  model, 
specification, age and condition.
A valuation  is, in the end, just what someone  is prepared to pay for the car. The problem is 
that that cant be known for sure, since the car wasnt sold just before the accident. All that 
can be done is for the value to be estimated. 
I think the fairest way of valuing Mrs Ss car is to use the standard  industry  guides.  Theyre 
based on databases of actual sales of comparable cars, adjusted  for the features and 
mileage of Mrs Ss actual car.
Mr C has provided copies  of adverts  for sale of similar cars. I think  the guides based on 
actual sales are more likely  to be accurate than adverts for sale  which  are based on the 
sellers starting price,  not the actual  price paid when (or if) the advertised  car sells. And while  
the advertised sales are for similar cars, there are differences in exact model  or specification  
or mileage. The guides are based  on a database  of actual  sales, are based  on the exact 
model, and can adjust for things like optional features, condition and mileage. And the policy  
Ref: DRN73534222pays for the value of Mrs Ss car, not the cost of buying a similar replacement   so I dont 
think the dealers letter  adds much.
So I think NFU acted  fairly, and in line with the policy  terms and conditions,  when it used  the 
guides to determine the value. Although I agree its first valuation of £8,600  was low, it 
revised it upwards  on reconsideration.
Weve checked  the guides  and found valuations  of £9,043, £9,070 and £8,810.  So I think  an 
offer of £9,000 represents a fair valuation for Mrs Ss car.
NFU has explained  why it offered a lower figure to start with. Im not persuaded by its 
argument, and I think a fair valuation was always £9,000. However, when Mr C and Mrs S 
contested the first valuation it revised  it to a fair figure. I dont agree with Mr C, who told our 
investigator that if that had been offered in the first place he and Mrs S would have accepted  
it. Having considered all his emails to NFU, I think its clear he thought the value was over 
£10,000 and wouldnt have considered settling for less than £9,500  plus compensation. So I 
dont think NFUs failure to offer £9,000 to start with has ultimately made  any difference to 
the progress or outcome of this complaint.
Ive reviewed how NFU handled  Mrs Ss claim and I think  it did so fairly.  It didnt  always  
respond to Mr C as quickly as he would have liked, but it did so in a reasonable time. And 
while Mr C feels  very strongly that it reached  the wrong answer in dealing with the claim, I 
think the process it went through  the initial low valuation apart  was fair and took a 
reasonable time. I dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7353422