K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy when they took out their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Nationwide in March  1992. At the same time they 
were sold a PPI policy. The policy covered  Mr D only and a successful claim wouldve 
covered their mortgage payments in the event  Mr D was too sick to work or became 
unemployed for up to 24 months following  a waiting period of 90 days.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld  because she didnt think 
Nationwide had made the 90 day waiting  period  clear and thought had it done so Mr and 
Mrs D wouldnt  have agreed to take the policy.
Nationwide disagreed. So Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case. And having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if the policy  
was right for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed  to 
decide if the PPI was right for them.  Based on what Ive seen so far I dont think Nationwide 
did this.
I say this because  the PPI had a 90 day waiting period   meaning Mr D (as the insured 
party) couldnt  make a claim  if he was unemployed or too sick to work  for the first three 
months. Then, upon a successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st 
day. So if Mr D was off work for 89 days no benefit wouldve been due at all.
Nationwide says that as part of its process  Mr and Mrs D wouldve been given a PPI leaflet  
including information  about the 90 day deferment period. I dont know  if they actually 
received or even  read this leaflet but even if they had I dont think  the information  about the 
waiting period was sufficiently  prominent  to draw  Mr and Mrs Ds attention to this term.
And I think this piece of information wouldve mattered because Mr D says he was not 
entitlement to sick pay or any other means  of supplementing his income if he couldnt  work. 
He may have received sick pay  but only at the discretion of his manager. And as they 
chose to cover Mr D only, I think his income  was important  and had some  bearing on their 
financial situation. So I think  if Mr D was unable to work they wouldve struggled to keep up 
their mortgage repayments for the initial three months before they were able to make a 
claim. And I think its more likely than not that they wouldve wanted to be able to make  a 
claim on the PPI policy much sooner than 90 days  particularly as they had such  limited  
other means  of making their repayments.
Ive taken into account what Nationwide has said about the arrears management measures it 
wouldve offered  Mr and Mrs D if they were struggling to make their repayments during the 
Ref: DRN7256390290 day waiting period. But these measures are informal and are at the discretion  of 
Nationwide, so theres no guarantee that this type of help wouldve been offered or available  
when Mr and Mrs D may have needed it.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs D wouldve bought  the policy if Nationwide had made this 90 
day waiting period clear  and I think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because  of what  Nationwide  
did wrong.
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs D in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society and direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7256390