K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complained about advice given by Medics Financial Services Limited to transfer her 
with-profits personal pension plan (PPP) with Prudential to a with-profits PPP with Standard 
Life in November 2002. She wants  to be put back into the position she would have been in, 
were it not for the advice to transfer.
background
Mrs C had a personal pension with Prudential. This was invested into a with-profits  fund.  The 
fund charges were  taken  through  the bonus  mechanism  in the form of a with-profits fund 
charge. According  to the Prudential Terms  and Conditions at the time:
This is expected  to be slightly under 1% a year if the investment return  in the With-Profits 
funds is 7% a year.  This charge is currently comparable to paying a 1% a year charge under  
a Stakeholder  pension.
Medics sent Mrs C a suitability letter dated 24 October 2002 confirming their advice to 
transfer. So, her benefits with Prudential of £39,167 were transferred to Standard  Life into a 
with-profits fund on 27 November 2002.
Mrs C incurred a market  value reduction  (MVR) of £962 as a result  of transferring. Medics 
received £1,304 for providing the advice and completing the transfer.
Mrs C took a tax free cash lump sum and bought an annuity not long after her 55th birthday 
on advice from Medics.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and was of the opinion it should  be 
upheld. The adjudicator considered the advice to be unsuitable because  a like for like 
transfer was recommended with no obvious benefit to Mrs C. As part of this recommendation 
Mrs C incurred advice fees and was charged  an MVR.
Medics disagreed with the adjudicators view and said the projections had been produced 
comparing Prudential with Standard Life showing an advantage to Mrs C by transferring.
The adjudicator observed that Medics approached Mrs C on the premise  she was paying 
excessive charges for her Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) with Prudential. With the 
advent of Stakeholder, she could save money by transferring  to a Stakeholder pension.
However, the adjudicator confirmed that Mrs C was not in a SSAS, but, in a with-profits  PPP 
that aimed to charge less than 1%. Her original schemes  charges  were in line with 
Stakeholder costs  already.  The adjudicator remained  unconvinced  by the forecasts  provided  
by Medics as there wasnt sufficient  clarity  that the cost of advice  and MVR were  included in 
the forecasts.  He was of the view that Mrs C had incurred costs by transferring with no 
obvious benefits for a like for like transfer  and concluded the advice unsuitable.
Medics requested that an ombudsman decide the matter. They said that the projections  
supplied by Prudential  and Standard Life showed  a clear advantage in transferring.
Ref: DRN78867582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
The advice given  by Medics was on the basis the plan with Prudential  was a SSAS with 
higher charges. It was in fact a PPP with similar charges  to the plan recommended  with 
Standard Life. The advice  was based  on a mistake, so I have to consider  what the advice 
should have been if the mistake had not been  made.
The projections showed very different  values.  Medics  assumed this was because  of higher 
charges in the plan with Prudential. That was not correct. The projections  produced  by 
Prudential used lower  fund values than the transfer value used for the Standard Life plan. It 
appears to me this is the reason for the difference. The projections did not compare the 
plans on a like for like basis and this should  have  been apparent to Medics  at the time of the 
advice. There was a market value reduction  applied at the time by Prudential, which should 
have been taken into account. 
I am not satisfied that there was a valid reason for the transfer as the two plans were very 
similar. The reason given for transferring  was incorrect. In my view, the advice should have 
been to retain the existing plan with Prudential.
fair compensation
If Medics had given suitable  advice Mrs C would have retained her policy with Prudential.  
Medics should establish  what the value of the policy with Prudential would have been  at the 
date Mrs C actually took benefits from her policy with Standard  Life. If the value of the policy  
with Prudential would have been higher than the actual value of the policy with Standard Life 
there is a loss and compensation  should  be paid to Mrs C. If there is no loss then no 
compensation is due.
Any additional fund value  would have been used to provide extra  benefits to Mrs C. She 
actually bought an annuity to provide  income  with 75% of her fund. So 75% of any 
compensation should be used to by an annuity, but the loss is likely to be very small. Any 
difference in the fund values should  therefore be paid to Mrs C as a lump sum.
However, 75% of the loss would have  been used to buy an annuity, which would have 
provided taxable income. I assume Mrs C is a basic rate taxpayer, so 75% of any loss 
should be reduced by 20% to reflect the net loss to Mrs C. 
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% a year from the date Mrs C 
bought her annuity to the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Medics consider they are required by 
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs C how much  that is. 
Medics should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC.
Ref: DRN78867583my final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons given above.  Medics Financial Services Limited 
should now calculate whether Mrs C has suffered a loss. If so, compensation should  be paid 
as set out above.
Medics should provide  details of the calculations to Mrs C in a clear simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7886758