K820x#14complaint
Mr P and his company  complain that British Gas Insurance Limited gave poor service  under 
a home  emergency  insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints about regulated  activities  and 
ancillary activities carried on by regulated  financial firms. Where I refer to British Gas,  I refer 
to the insurance  company of that name and I include its engineers and others  for whose 
actions I hold it responsible.
Mr P or his company own a property  that is let to tenants. There was British Gas insurance 
cover for the central heating boiler. It didnt cover a power-flush. And there  was an exclusion 
relating to damage caused by sludge.
The British  Gas agreement also related  to an annual landlords safety inspection and 
certificate.
In August  2017  Mr P called for help with the boiler  at the property. But British Gas didnt  fix it. 
British Gas recommended that Mr P pay for a power  flush,  so he got a third party  company 
to do a flush.
He complained that British Gas had said the third party  company  hadnt done the flush  
properly, so it still wouldnt  replace the boilers heat exchanger. Mr P paid for an independent  
report that said the system water was clean. 
Mr P sent a letter of complaint dated 25 October  2017. He complained that British  Gas 
should pay him £624.00 for the repair of the heat exchanger plus £136.50 for the 
independent report, a total of £760.50 . 
Mr Ps letter  also complained that British Gas had for many years  overlooked  a safety  
hazard  that the exhaust flue of the boiler  had been  near an opening window.
British Gas said we had no jurisdiction to deal with the complaint. An investigator 
recommended that we did have jurisdiction to deal with the complaint 
An ombudsman decided that we do have jurisdiction over how British Gas has responded to 
a claim made under  a regulated insurance  policy. As regards the potential safety issue  with 
the flue, the ombudsman  couldnt see from the file whether this was part of the insurance 
cover. She said that if it was then this also relates  to a regulated activity and would also be in 
our jurisdiction.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought that 
the third party  had done the power flush correctly. She recommended  that British  Gas should 
reimburse Mr P:
1.the cost of the independent report;  and
2.the cost British Gas wouldve charged to get the heat exchanger  replaced.
Ref: DRN77210722my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to British  Gas on 19 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id seen many homes with a flue near an opening  window. Mr P and his company 
had fallen short of showing me a regulation that prohibits that  or from what  date.
In any event, Mr P and his company had fallen  short of showing that they suffered 
any detriment. Theres no evidence that Mr Ps tenants were harmed. And I dont  
think British Gas was obliged to pay to move  the flue. So if it had to be moved, Mr P 
or his company would  have to pay for it.
I found that sludge had damaged  the heat exchanger before the flush,  because  there 
had been years without a flush  before  the heat exchanger was found to need 
replacement.
Therefore I didnt find that British Gas treated Mr P or his company unfairly by 
declining to clean,  repair or replace the heat exchanger.
But I didnt think British  Gas communicated as clearly as it shouldve  done about the 
effect of its policy  terms. And I think this caused  Mr P and his company  to waste 
£136.50 on the report.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr P or his company:
1.£136.50  in  reimbursement of the plumbing  companys invoice of 5 September  2017;
2.simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from that date until the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Mr P disagrees with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary, that:
all boiler manuals clearly state that the flue must be at least  300 mm away  from any 
window opening  in order that poisonous gases should not blow back into the house.  
Lots of firms know how to do a power  flush the same way as British Gas does.
A power  flush cleans  everything  the heat exchanger and the plate to plate heat 
exchanger. 
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN77210723my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
From the British Gas records, I think the boiler at the property was an old one  dating  from 
about 1989. 
The flue
There is a question whether we have jurisdiction to deal with the complaint insofar as it 
arises under  the annual landlords safety  inspection and certificate. But I dont think  that 
makes any difference  in this case. 
I say that because the complaint about  the safety inspection is that British  Gas had for many 
years overlooked a safety hazard. Ive looked carefully at the British Gas work history.  And 
British Gas had made visits  to do repairs under  the insurance as well as the annual  
landlords safety inspection and certificate. 
So whether  or not I have jurisdiction to deal with that complaint insofar  as it relates to what  
British Gas shouldve  seen on the safety inspection, I have jurisdiction to deal with it insofar 
as it relates to what it shouldve seen  on the repair visits.
Ive seen many homes with a flue near an opening  window. Mr P and his company have  
fallen short of showing me a regulation that prohibits  that  or from what  date.  And he hasnt 
provided the manual for his old boiler or any other boiler.
In any event, Mr P and his company have fallen  short of showing that they suffered any 
detriment. Theres no evidence that Mr Ps tenants were harmed. And I dont think  British  
Gas was obliged  to pay to move  the flue. So if it had to be moved, Mr P or his company 
would have to pay for it.
The boiler
From what  British Gas has said, I think the boiler had two heat exchangers. There  was a 
main heat exchanger  and a plate-to-plate heat exchanger for domestic  hot water.
In July 2011 the British Gas work history includes an entry  as follows:
 CODE 5 CLEAN OUT HEAT EX. POWERFLUSH REQ. CHARGE NEXT TIME
From that note I find it likely that British  Gas had told Mr P his system required a power  flush. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr P arranged a flush at any time in the six years from July 
2011.
The British  Gas policy terms dated October 2015 and the British Gas new  policy  terms 
dated February 2017 each said that the following wasnt covered:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Ref: DRN77210724I think that means that British Gas wont cover  repairs to damage caused  by sludge in the 
period after British Gas has told the policyholder  he needs a power flush but before he gets 
a flush done.
The new British Gas policy terms included a condition  as follows:
If someone else carries  out a powerflush for you, youll  need  to show  us the receipt  
before we carry out any more repairs or replacement work for damage caused  by 
sludge.
I dont think that means that British Gas will carry out repairs  to damage caused by sludge in 
the period after British  Gas has told the policyholder he needs a power  flush  but before he 
gets a flush done.
The work history also shows that British  Gas cleaned the plate-to-plate heat exchanger in 
July 2017. It also shows that British Gas sent Mr P a quote for a power flush.  So I find it 
likely that it had again told Mr P his system  required a power flush.
When Mr P called for help in August 2017, British Gas fixed a leak.  Its work history  says that 
Mr P was getting a power flush from a third party.  
Mr P has sent us an invoice from the plumbing company which  did the independent  report. It 
is dated 5 September 2017.  It is for £113.75  plus VAT a total of £136.50. On the same  day, 
the company reported as follows:
Looks like power flush is ok
water is clean
hot water  runs warm - cold.  - Suspect domestic  heat exchanger needs replacing.
Boiler very old, flue too near openable  window
I am getting  costs for the part and will advise you
I enclose our invoice - please confirm receipt
From that, I find it likely that the plumbing company was getting  information about the cost 
for the only spare  part it had mentioned - which I think was the domestic hot water or plate-
to-plate heat exchanger.
Mr P has sent us a second invoice from the plumbing company. But it isnt an invoice for a 
heat exchanger. The second  invoice  is dated  18 September 2017.  It was for £2,055.00 plus 
VAT, a total of £2,466.00.  It was for the installation of a new boiler  at the property.  
Mr P sent us a copy of his letter to British Gas dated  25 October 2017. His letter  said he 
enclosed a copy of the flush companys invoice. British Gas hasnt disputed that, so I find 
that he did. I havent seen the invoice myself. 
  
Mr Ps letter  also included  the following:
we would like to claim from you the repair of the heat exchanger being £624.00 plus 
the cost of [independent  company]  charges  of £136.50 being  a total of £760.50
From that, I find it likely that the plumbing company had quoted  £624.00 as the cost of a 
plate-to-plate heat exchanger.
Ref: DRN77210725Mr P mustve known that  rather than paying for a heat exchanger - hed paid for a new 
boiler.
I dont think the point is whether or not the third party flush had worked. I think  the point is 
whether sludge  had damaged the heat exchanger before the flush. I find that it had, because 
there had been  years  without a flush before the heat exchanger  was found to need 
replacement.
Therefore I dont find that British Gas treated Mr P or his company unfairly by declining  to 
clean, repair  or replace  the heat exchanger.
In any event theres no evidence that Mr P or his company paid £624.00 or any other sum to 
repair or replace  the heat exchanger. Rather,  Mr P had decided  the time had come for a new 
boiler.
So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay Mr P or his company 
compensation for the old boiler, its heat exchanger or its flue.
But I dont think British  Gas communicated as clearly as it shouldve  done about the effect of 
its policy terms. And I think  this caused  Mr P and his company to waste £136.50 on the 
report.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse Mr P or his company. And  
as one of them has been out of pocket since 5 September  2017   I will direct British Gas to 
add interest at our usual  rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P or his company:
1.£136.50  in  reimbursement of the plumbing  companys invoice of 5 September  2017;
2.simple interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% from that date until the date of 
reimbursement. If British  Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and his 
company to accept  or reject my decision before  4 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7721072