K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  
Partner Finance  (BPF) wrongly  took payments for a loan preventing  Mr B getting use of the 
twelve months interest free period. And took too long to deal with a Section 75 claim. Mr B 
would like the interest free period to be honoured, any interest that has been  paid to be 
refunded and, unauthorised payments to stop.
background
Mr B says he took out a fixed sum loan agreement in March 2017  with BPF or a new set of 
conservatory doors. The loan was for £18,462.50 to be repaid in 120 monthly  instalments of 
£396.91.
He says the materials were delivered  on 22 November  2017. He signed a delivery note to 
confirm this.  He says BPF then made the payment to the supplier on 23 November 2017.
Mr B says there were  numerous problems with the work. The main  ones  being  a large gap 
above the door, the locking sash was bowed  and the height of the track  varied.
Mr B says as these issues hadnt been  resolved he put in a Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
(CCA) 1974 claim in October 2018.  Mr B says he didnt get an update from BPF until 
January 2019.
Mr B says the work  to the doors was finally completed by July 2019 but he wasnt happy that 
the first direct debit  payments was taken on 23 November 2018 one year after the supplier 
had received the money from BPF. Mr B feels the money shouldnt  have been given to the 
supplier until the goods  were  satisfactorily  installed i.e. in July 2019. He feels  as a result  he 
hasnt benefitted  from the 12 months  interest  free period.
BPF said the years  interest free loan began from the date the goods were delivered  in this 
case on 22 November 2017.  So it activated  Mr Bs account on 23 November  2017  and 
started taking payments  a year later. It said the supplier said a new flashing  had to be 
installed in November 2017. As it heard nothing  more  from Mr B until April 2018 it assumed 
he was happy  with the goods.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. He found  that BPF hadnt  issued a response to 
Mr Bs Section 75 claim  which he felt should have been upheld  due to the problems  Mr B 
had with the installation. However he said that the eight  week timeframe we expect in 
relation to businesses  looking into financial complaints didnt  extend  to Section 75 claims. He 
did feel that BPF could  have dealt with the matter more quickly.  
He agreed with Mr B that BPF should have waited  until the installation was complete before 
paying the supplier. He found  as the main  body of the work was complete by 29 November 
2017 that the payment  should have been made  then rather  than 5 days  earlier. However  as 
he payments started in 23 November 2018  he still felt that Mr B had had the benefit  of the 12 
months interest free loan.
Taking all of this into account  he felt that it was reasonable  for BPF to pay Mr B £200  
compensation.
Ref: DRN76787472BPF didnt  accept this. It said that it had responded to Mr Bs Section 75 claim in which it 
awarded him £200 compensation.  It didnt feel it was reasonable to pay an additional £200.
Mr B was happy his complaint had been upheld. But he didnt  feel the outcome dealt with 
what he felt was the main  issue  of his complaint  a breach of contract.  He  said his contract  
stated he was expected to sign a completion statement but had never  done  so. And that the 
balance only became payable when this document had been signed.  He said he had only 
signed a delivery  document which did not constitute a completion note.
He didnt feel our investigators  view covered his contractual  rights. And he noted that under 
his contract the 10 year guarantee  started  from the date on the completion notice - but he 
had never  been  given  one.
He didnt feel the compensation our investigator recommended was sufficient to cover  the 
interest he would  have gained had he invested the money he has repaid since he believed 
this money shouldnt have been  taken until July 2019  8 months later than it had been, his 
out of pocket expenses for increased fuel bills and for the overall stress and inconvenience.
.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  In response to Mr Bs 
request to respond  to the individual points about  his contract prior to Mr B potentially taking 
legal action he explained it wasnt our role to consider legal interpretation  of contracts  but to 
look at what if fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And also to consider any loss He 
said if Mr B could  provide  evidence of increased  fuel bills he would consider this.
Mr B said he estimated his fuel costs  amounted  to £550. However in order to resolve the 
matter he offered to pay the loan off in full  but not to make any interest  payments. Our 
investigator put this to the business  who did not agree. Its view was that Mr B was liable for 
the interest payments.
Mr B said he felt it wasnt fair the BPF didnt  attempt to amicably resolve  this issues,  that he 
was out of pocket  with fuel costs and that taking money from him twelve months  from 
delivery not completion was a breach of his contract. He said BPF had told him his contract 
wasnt clear,  that he hadnt  been  given an interest  free period
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said he had 
confirmed with BPF that its position  hadnt  changed.  He felt at this point that if Mr B wasnt 
happy it might be best if his complaint  was put forward for an ombudsmans  review.
M B confirmed he wanted an Ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly  about this. I am aware Mr B sent in a lengthy  document 
summarising his complaint for me. I would like to reassure him that I have both seen  and 
read this document.
As I understand it Mr B feels he has lost out  by he estimated approximately  £11,000 due to 
BPF taking  repayments for a loan in November 2018  one year after he took delivery  of 
conservatory doors rather that in July 2020 one year after installation was finally  completed.
Ref: DRN76787473He feels he did everything expected  of him from the contract he signed  - for example he 
advised of problems with the installation from November 2017
He feels however that BPF havent acted in accordance with the contract he signed  and 
have acted unreasonably. He doesnt  feel it should  have made the payment to the supplier 
when it did. And he feels  it should  have taken  up his offer to pay off the loan in full but with 
no interest. And that BPF took too long to deal with his complaint  he says he complained in 
November 2018  but didnt  get a response until 15 January 2019  and then received a number 
of stalling letters.
So in summary the main  issues  I need to deal with are firstly whether BPF should have paid 
the supplier when it did, the loss Mr B feels he has incurred and he time it took for BPF to 
deal with Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement on a buy now pay later (BNPL)  deal. This meant 
that no payments  were  due for 12 months. And if at the end of the 12 months Mr B paid the 
loan in full he would  only be liable for a £70 settlement fee. If he didnt he would start to 
make repayments of £396.91  per month  for 120 months repaying the loan with interest.
BPF says Mr Bs account was activated on 23 November 2017 the day after he received the 
goods. It said its agreement was to pay the supplier the loan sum once the supplier had 
supplied the goods. This meant  the 12 month interest free loan started from that date with 
payments then being due one year later unless Mr B chose to pay the loan off in full.
I have seen the contract and associated documents Mr B signed. This makes  it clear  the 
amount of the loan will be paid to the retailer once either  BPF approves the loan or when the 
retailer has supplied the goods or services. 
Mr B has given  us a copy of the agreement with the supplier. This states that a completion 
notice should  be signed when the consumer is happy the installation  complies with the 
general assessment  drawing (GAD). The contract goes onto say that if the consumer isnt 
satisfied he has to advise  immediately and provide a written  snagging list. And finally after 
inspection and rectification of any issues when  the consumer is satisfied the completion 
notice should  be signed and the balance then becomes payable. 
There is a caveat to say this applied unless  funding has been supplied  by BPF as is the case  
here. But the additional notes explaining this dont  refer to the balance  becoming payable or 
anything that I can see is of relevance  here.
So looking  at all of this together  I think that BPF view that delivery  was sufficient to justify 
payment is too narrow. I think Mr B bought  a product and a service .So in his case  the 
supplier needed  to provide both goods and the installation for the payment to the supplier to 
be made.
I dont think there can be any dispute that Mr B didnt sign a completion notice. Mr B says he 
didnt. And BPF hasnt  provided one instead relying on the delivery note Mr B signed.
Whats not clear to me is when Mr B made  it clear  he wasnt  happy with the installation.  BPF 
says the supplier has told them that it had to make a new flashing in November 2017  but 
then didnt hear anything from Mr B until April 2018.  So it assumed he was happy with the 
product.
Ref: DRN76787474Mr B has told us that he was in touch from November 2017 onwards with the supplier but he 
hasnt given us any evidence of this. He then put in his complaint to BPF in October  2018.
I have asked Mr B for copies of emails he had with the supplier. He has kindly  supplied  
these. From the email  trails I can see there was a lot of communication  between Mr B and 
the supplier between 17 and 20 November 2017. But then I cant  see he was in contact 
again until April 2018. This concurs with the business view of events.
Looking at all the information I have I think Mr B should have signed  a completion notice but 
didnt. And I think BPF should have expected to have a signed completion notice before it 
made the payment to the supplier.
However as there doesnt seem to have been any contact between  Mr B and the supplier 
from for several months  after his emails of November 2017 I think the supplier  wasnt  
unreasonable in concluding  that Mr B was happy with the product.
I have looked  at the effect on Mr B of BPF not getting a signed completion  notice. Mr B says 
he has lost out as he hasnt had a years interest free loan. I dont agree  with that. Mr B did 
have a one year interest free period.  It just ran from a different date i.e. from November 2018 
one year after the door was delivered and initially  installed,  not from July 2020 one year from 
when Mr B says all the problems were  finally resolved.
From what  Mr B has told us he always had the money to pay the loan off in full .Had  he done 
so under the terms of the BNPL deal he wouldnt have incurred any interest.  I understand 
Mr B didnt pay off the loan in full and so has incurred  interest.  Whilst I appreciate Mr B 
wasnt happy with the installation or the date of the interest period he could  have made the 
payment in full, avoided  interest and continued  with his complaint.
It was Mr Bs choice not to do that so I dont think I can reasonably  expect BPF to refund the 
payments he has made to date and to reset the loan to make payments due from July 2020.
I know Mr B feels its unreasonable  that BPF didnt take up what he felt was a reasonable 
offer to pay off the loan in full but not make any interest payments. We did relay Mr Bs offer 
to BPF but it didnt  accept it. That was a commercial  decision for it to take.
I have considered any other losses Mr B might have  incurred as a result of BPF not awaiting  
for a completion notice.  Mr B has told us that he has incurred higher fuel bills as a result of 
the problem with the door. We have asked  him for evidence of this but unfortunately he 
hasnt given us any. So in fairness  to BPF I dont think  I can reasonably expect  it to 
compensate for a loss of which we have  no evidence.
I do think Mr B was put to some inconvenience as its clear  that it took some time to finally  
resolve all of the issues with the door.  Our investigator considered  that and recommended  
BPF pay £200 compensation.
In making that offer I dont  believe  he was aware that as a result  of Mr Bs Section 75 claim 
BPF had already  paid Mr B £200 compensation in July 2019. It upheld Mr Bs complaint; 
found the issues had all been resolved but made  the £200 payment  for  distress and 
inconvenience.  I think that was reasonable as, had no compensation been paid, I would 
have considered an amount around  £200  to be reasonable.  I dont feel from what  Mr B has 
told us that I can reasonably ask BPF to pay more compensation.
Ref: DRN76787475In terms of the time taken to deal with Mr Bs complaint. Our investigator took that to mean 
the time taken to deal with the Section 75 Complaint. I am not sure that was what Mr B did 
mean .From what I have read I take it he wasnt happy that it took BPF more  than eight 
weeks to make a decision  on his complaint to us.
For completeness in terms of the Section 75 complaint there  is no eight week rule. We would 
however expect businesses to deal with any complaint as quickly as is reasonably  possible.
In terms of Mr Bs overall complaint to BPF we usually expect businesses to get back in 
touch with consumers  within  eight weeks but that isnt necessarily to give a final solution 
since it can  take some time to look into complaints. 
What we do expect  is for businesses to keep in touch with consumers and, as far as I can 
see, BPF did this. It acknowledged Mr Bs complaint when it got it in October 2018 and then 
sent a series of holding  letters over a number of months whilst  it looked into Mr Bs 
complaint. I appreciate Mr B found  these frustrating. 
I dont believe BPF issued a final response letter as Mr Bs complaint then came to us whilst 
BPF were still in the process  of dealing with his complaint. BPF then began corresponding 
directly with us it wasnt necessarily wrong to do that. So I dont feel BPF acted 
unreasonably in the time it took to deal with Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7678747