K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the way in which AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled his request for 
assistance and his claim under his travel insurance  policy with it after he suffered  a sudden 
illness abroad. 
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background 
In August  2017  Mr T and his partner were  on a long haul holiday abroad  when  Mr T suffered 
sudden pain in his leg. He was initially given pain killers  but the pain became very severe. 
He needed back  surgery as he was told the nerves  had been  trapped  and Im sorry to hear 
that his leg pain continued after his returned  to the UK. Hes also described  how his mental  
health has been affected by the events abroad.  
Mr T contacted AXA about his claim,  and after obtaining medical  reports  both from his doctor 
abroad and in the UK it guaranteed payment  for the surgery. But Mr T complained about its 
delay in arranging  this. His first planned  surgery was cancelled. And as the guaranteed 
payment didnt arrive in time he said the second  surgery couldnt  go ahead until hed paid for 
it by credit card in the operating  theatre.  
Following the surgery  AXA arranged for Mr T and his partner to travel  back to the UK. Hes 
raised a number of issues about its service, including that it withdrew  cover  meaning he 
travelled home earlier than he should have done. The journey home  didnt go smoothly. He 
complained to AXA both from abroad  and after he got back  home. 
AXA upheld part of his complaint and offered  to pay him £250  compensation. He said its 
response was inadequate  and brought  his complaint to us. He also said AXA hadnt  paid all 
his expenses including credit card interest  and phone costs.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. She recommended that AXA 
pay Mr T some additional compensation of £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its poor service. She also recommended that AXA pay some additional expenses, which  
AXA agreed to do subject to evidence. Mr T didnt think the compensation was enough and 
asked our investigator to listen  to some specific calls between himself and AXA. She did so 
but this didnt change her view. Mr T asked for a review so the complaints come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I consider our 
investigator has proposed  a fair and reasonable settlement to this complaint. 
I am sorry  to hear about Mr Ts distressing illness abroad and the physical and mental health 
issues hes since experienced. Its clear that the events have had a significant  impact on 
him.
Its my role to assess whether AXA dealt with Mr Ts request for assistance and claim fairly. 
I need to distinguish between the pain and trauma caused by Mr Ts illness  and the impact 
on him of any shortcomings in AXAs  handling  of matters. Ive listened to recordings of the 
phone calls while he was abroad. I will focus on what I consider to be the central  issues. 
Ref: DRN70061232It took AXA three days to authorise the surgery that Mr T required.  I dont consider that was 
an excessive amount of time to assess the medical  reports and I dont think AXA delayed in 
obtaining the GP report. In referring  to a duty  of care AXA was explaining that a hospital  
had a duty to treat Mr T for a medical  emergency regardless of whether or not it had been 
paid. 
It was very distressing  for Mr T to be asked for payment details at the point of surgery.  I cant  
comment on the procedures of the hospital  to prepare Mr T for surgery before it had 
received AXAs payment  guarantee   and then to ask him to pay by credit card before the 
procedure. But ultimately I dont think there  was any undue delay in AXA authorising  the 
surgery and I cant fairly  hold it responsible for the stress Mr T experienced before and after 
having the surgery. 
Mr Ts concern is that hed not have had his surgery but for his credit cards with a large 
credit limit. I appreciate what hes saying  but I think AXA did take steps  to guarantee the 
payment. The surgery  had been  arranged  before  AXA had been able to confirm cover. As 
Mr T had already paid it then took some  time for the hospital to make the refund, but I think  
AXA did do what was required to make  sure he was repaid. 
There was some confusion about the date Mr T was fit to fly home  following his surgery. The 
medical report said hed be fit to fly around  7 days after surgery  (23 August). But that 
medical report had been  superseded by another medical report where Mr Ts surgeon told 
him that hed not be fit to fly until after his follow up appointment on 28 August. The surgeon  
said that even  then Mr T should  have some further  tests before the surgeon could confirm 
his fitness. AXAs own medical team reviewed the reports from the treating surgeon  and, in 
its view, said Mr T was fit to fly by 29 August. But AXA properly did agree  to look at the new 
medical report when  Mr T pointed out the previous fit to fly certificate had been  superseded. 
Mr T didnt  feel ready to fly home on 29 August and he offered to pay for his own 
accommodation for a few days. AXA said he could do that. But I think it was right to explain 
its policy terms meant that it wouldnt continue to cover Mr Ts medical  care (if needed) in the 
period after it decided he could come home. This wasnt to force  Mr T home  early,  although  I 
understand that was his concern. Rather it was to explain the usual policy  limitation that an 
insurer wont continue to cover medical costs  for a condition after the date its insured person  
is fit to fly home. I see AXA did arrange for the flights  home in line with his surgeons written 
advice about Mr Ts fitness  to fly on 31 August.  
It can take a few days to arrange medical clearance and suitable flights. Mr T was aggrieved  
that AXA was offering  to upgrade his and his partners flight  home  when in fact hed already 
bought business class  seats. I think AXA did acknowledge this, and I dont think  it was 
suggesting that it was doing him a favour. AXA arranged the flights taking into account 
Mr Ts preference for route and seats.  It is the airline that allocates  the seats,  based  on the 
medical information AXA provided to the airline  as part of the medical  clearance  process.  
Unfortunately Mr T says the taxi driver wasnt waiting for him in the UK and he didnt have 
the assistance he was promised. Fortunately he was able to make  contact  with the driver.  
I can see that AXA did make the proper arrangements for the taxi firm to collect  Mr T using  a 
suitable vehicle  so I dont think the issues were due to something it had done wrong in 
making the arrangements. 
AXA has now agreed to pay some outstanding aspects of Mr Ts claim, including  the phone  
phone call costs for calling his credit  card company and interest on his credit card payments 
Ref: DRN70061233subject to evidence.  I think thats fair. Its response  to his complaint apologised for the 
accepted shortcomings in its service  and AXA offered a compensation payment  of £250.
Including the amount  recommended by our investigator the total compensation payment for 
distress and inconvenience is £550. Mr T thinks this isnt adequate.  But I think it is fair and 
reasonable to reflect  AXAs accepted shortcomings  in its handling and communication with 
Mr T. AXA accepts  it could have spoken with him with more empathy, managed his 
expectations and that it should  have updated  him with progress. The total compensation of 
£550 is what I consider  to be a substantial award and in my view reflects  the impact on Mr T 
of AXAs  poor handling  at a difficult time for him. 
If Mr T decides  not to accept my final decision the complaint wont  be binding either on 
himself or AXA. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. Where it hasnt already done 
so I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay Mr T, in total, compensation of £550;  to pay him 
the cost of calling his credit card company from overseas in August 2017; and to pay him the 
interest on expenses he paid on his credit  card during the period he was ill overseas in 
August 2017,  subject  to Mr T providing evidence of those costs if hes not done  that already.  
Where it hasnt already  done so AXA must pay the total compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest* on the compensation  from the date of my final decision until the date of 
payment at 8% per year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr T how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr T a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7006123