K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Acromas Insurance Company Limited has declined  a claim made 
under his buildings insurance policy. The claim relates to damage thats happened to his 
garage.
background
In the spring of 2018 Mr B noticed  damage  to his garage. The garage  forms part of a block 
of three, the other two garages are owned  by his neighbour. He submitted a claim for the 
damage in early summer 2018. Acromas  arranged for a firm of specialist subsidence  loss 
adjusters to attend his property and assess the damage.  
The loss adjuster said that the damage was not due to subsidence  of the garage. Rather a 
retaining wall, which purpose was to hold back the higher ground behind  the garage, had 
failed. This failure  meant that the back of the garage block then effectively became the 
retaining wall with all the weight of the retained soil pressing against it. The back wall of the 
garages wasnt designed as a retaining  wall and it was the additional  pressure from the soil 
that had caused the cracking,  rather than any movement of the garages themselves.  
Acromas declined the claim.
Mr B wasnt  happy about Acromas decision and referred his complaint to this service. 
Shortly after doing so, he provided a copy of a surveyors  report  the owner of the other  
garages had obtained.  
This report also said that the cause of the cracking was the weight of the soil behind  the 
garages pressing  on the back wall. However, it said that this failure  could be due to trees  in 
the neighbours garden (behind the garages) having  recently died and the resultant reduced 
water intake having caused heave, which would have put extra pressure on the retaining 
structure and garage wall. Alternatively,  as the underlying soil was clay and it had been a 
very dry summer, shrinkage of that clay could have caused movement in the garages.  The 
surveyor stated that as the cracks  had only appeared this year, the movement was not due 
to defective materials  or original construction. The surveyor  said that he believed  the 
damage represented a valid insurance claim.
As it didnt  appear  Acromas had seen the surveyors report,  our investigator sent it a copy. It 
was asked if the content of the report changed  its conclusions about the claim. Acromas  
confirmed the report didnt change its conclusions or decision.
Our investigator considered all of the evidence  and concluded that Acromas was not wrong  
in declining the claim as something that wasnt covered  by the insurance policy.  Mr B was 
very unhappy with this and highlighted that the surveyors  report  was in his favour and that 
the surveyor was local and knew the area. Mr B also questioned if there was a design fault, 
why it had taken  20 years to become apparent. He also pointed out that there  was a 
soakaway to the rear right of the garage  and so there is an area for water to disperse.  As 
such, there was a drainage system for the garage. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
Ref: DRN79910272my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance policy doesnt cover everything that can happen to a property. In most cases, 
as with Mr Bs policy, the insurer  selects specific events that it is willing to provide cover for. 
If the event  that happens isnt one that is listed in the policy, then the insurer isnt liable for 
any damage that results  from that event. There will also be exclusions contained in the 
policy. Exclusions will allow the insurer to decline a claim where an insured event has 
occurred if it is not the dominant cause of the damage.
In this case heave and subsidence have been  mentioned in relation to the damage  to the 
garage. Both of these things are insured perils under the policy. Both are also defined in the 
policy terms:
Subsidence: Downward movement  of the site on which the buildings  are situated by a 
cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves.
Heave: The upward or sideways  movement of the site on which  your buildings are 
situated caused by the swelling  of the ground.
This means  that the buildings are covered for damage that is caused  by the upward or 
downward movement  of the ground  on which they sit. 
Both of the experts in this case  have agreed that the damage  has happened because  the 
structure behind  the garages designed to hold back soil and take the weight of that soil has 
failed. This has allowed  the weight of the retained  soil to press on the back  of the garage. 
This is a lateral or horizontal  force, which  has then caused the cracking to the structure of 
the garage. There  is no mention of the ground  beneath the foundations of the garages  
having moved in any direction.
The surveyor has mentioned that the cause of the damage could be heave.  He said that due 
to some trees in the neighbours  garden  dying, there might be more water  in the soil behind 
the retaining structure. This additional  water content  might have  caused  the soil to increase 
in volume and weight.  If this happened, it would have  placed additional pressure  on the 
retaining structure causing it to fail.
The definition of both subsidence and heave require the ground on which  the buildings  stand 
to move.  There is no suggestion  in either  report that is what  has happened in this case  
neither says the ground underneath the garage  has moved either downward or upward. The 
only suggestion that heave  has occurred,  is the ground behind the retaining structure and 
above the height of the foundations of the garage having possibly suffered from heave and 
thereby increased  in volume. 
Acromas considers the failure of the retaining wall/structure to be due to poor design. I would 
firstly point out that the failure  of the wall would only be covered if it was due to an insured 
event covered by the policy. 
Retaining walls, if properly designed,  are substantial structures. As the weight of retained 
soil can vary very significantly depending on its moisture  content,  the structure needs to be 
able to cope with temporary increases  in weight and allow excess  water to drain away.  This 
Ref: DRN79910273will be done  through the installation of a drainage system to carry the water away  from 
behind the wall or by the use of weep holes in the wall allowing it to escape through  the 
structure. The comments on the nature of the retaining structure dont indicate it is 
substantial or that there is a drainage system in place. In the circumstances,  Acromas  
conclusion about  the design  of the retaining structure wouldnt appear to be unreasonable.
Mr B has asked  why, if the retaining  structure  was inadequate, it took twenty years for it to 
fail. Retaining structures should, if built correctly  last as long as the house  they are built to 
protect is expected  to. That would be in excess of a century for most builds. However, a wall 
that is inadequate may well function  for a significant  period of time, gradually becoming  
damaged and weaker, before it fails completely. In the case  of Mr Bs home, the damage to 
the retaining structure wouldnt have  been visible due to its position. The fact it has failed is 
now only visible because following that failure,  the garage wall took the pressure of the 
retained ground, deteriorated and eventually failed.  The garage damage  would have  been  
occurring over a period  of time before  the cracks actually appeared and probably needed to 
become worse before the damage was noticeable  to a casual inspection.  So despite it taking 
twenty years  for the damage to become visible the fact that it has so soon after the property 
was built would indicate the retaining wall was inadequate for its purpose.  
Based on the evidence  I have, I am not persuaded the damage to the garage was caused by 
something that Mr Bs insurance policy covers. So I dont  think Acromas was wrong  in 
declining the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 November  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7991027