K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that MCE  Insurance Company Limited (MCE) unfairly  quoted him a 
high renewal premium for his motorcycle insurance  policy.
background
Mr B first took out cover  with MCE in August 2017.  In July 2018 he contacted MCE for a 
renewal quote. He said he was quoted almost £3,000  whereas  the online quote  he got from 
them was £1,200. He complained.
MCE didnt uphold the complaint. They said the quote they gave Mr B over the telephone, 
which was just under £2,700, was correct.  In relation to the online quote,  MCE said:  
Unfortunately,  it can be difficult for our Sales Department to match  online quotes  without a 
reference due to aggregator  websites  providing  a discount and lower broker fees.  They also 
said: The price given through the call centre was the best price MCE were  able to offer and 
unfortunately without  a reference, we are unable to match quotes given online.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and bought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  
into the complaint.  She felt that MCE had treated Mr B fairly. As Mr B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if MCE have dealt with Mr B in a fair and 
reasonable way.
As I understand it, Mr Bs complaint is that the MCE call handler who quoted him around 
£2,700 for his renewal premium misinformed him and gave an incorrect  amount. Mr B 
believes that to be the case because he said he got an online quote from MCE for £1,200.  
Having looked  at the information MCE provided me, I can see that the quote  given to Mr B 
over the phone was calculated  properly  and fairly. What  I mean  by that is Im satisfied that 
MCE treated Mr B in the same way as they would  other policyholders in similar 
circumstances. 
MCE said they dont  have a record of the online quote Mr B said he was given  by MCE. 
MCE said they would need a reference to look into that quote. They have given some 
general reasons  why online  quotes might be cheaper, but without the specific  details of the 
actual online application Mr B made, they havent been  able to comment further. And as far 
as Im aware, Mr B hasnt provided MCE with the reference of his online quote. I think this is 
very important as MCE would have  to look to see if the details given by Mr B during the 
online quote were  identical  to the details  given over the phone.  What  may appear to be 
minor variations, such as a different address or where the vehicle is kept overnight, could 
lead to a significant difference in the price of the premium. Also, as insurers review their risk 
ratings (what they base  their premiums on) on a daily basis, its possible for a quote given 
(online or over the phone) to increase  or decrease the following day. So without any further  
Ref: DRN77256502information about the online quote  being provided to MCE for them  to consider, I cant  say 
they have done anything  wrong.
Even if different  quotes were given  to Mr B online and over the phone, it doesnt mean that 
MCE treated him unfairly, as I think he could  have accepted the online  quote if he wanted  to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725650