K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited applied a market  value 
reduction (MVR)  to his withdrawal of tax-free  cash from his pension  without first letting  him 
know what this would  be.
background
In September  2018, through his financial adviser,  Mr L put in a request to withdraw  his tax-
free cash  amount from his pension plan with Prudential.
When this was paid into his bank account he saw that a MVR had been applied  to it, 
meaning that hed received £1,314 less than he thought.
Mr L complained. He said he hadnt  been  given any warning or notice of this. If hed known 
about it, he wouldnt have  gone ahead. He questioned how he could plan his finances  if 
important information  such  as this was kept from him.
Prudential said that it wasnt always possible  to confirm in advance if an MVR would apply to 
a transaction but it makes it clear  that one may be applied. It said that Mr Ls plan started in 
January 2017  and was initially invested  in the with-profits fund. Since that time the funds 
have been switched between the cash and with-profits fund. The MVR applied reflected the 
duration of the investment between the final switch in February 2018, and the withdrawal.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect Prudential to inform each of its customers  when a 
MVR was going  to be applied to a transaction, as it had made it clear one might  apply in its 
documentation. She said this had been specifically confirmed to Mr Ls financial adviser in 
an email sent with his illustration, and was also explained in the key features  of the 
retirement plan. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators  findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said he expected  Prudential to let him or his financial adviser  know  if money would  be 
deducted in the form of a MVR. He said he needs  to make regular withdrawal from his 
pension pot until he reaches state retirement  age. The amount of the MVR was a significant 
loss to him. He agreed that Prudentials correspondence does say that that a MVR may be 
applied and any amount quoted wasnt guaranteed. But he doesnt  think its fair that he cant 
be told what this would  be before he decides to make a withdrawal from his pension.  
He said his withdrawal  had been  delayed  because Prudential  had asked or more  information 
from his financial adviser. There was then a further delay in Prudential  giving him the 
explanation that a MVR had applied to his withdrawal. But his adviser had told him that MVR 
wasnt in place when  the form was submitted to Prudential.  He thought the MVR wouldnt 
have applied  if the application had gone through on time. 
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about whats  happened and the information  he 
feels he would need so that he can make  financial planning choices for his future.
Ref: DRN75120032Ive looked over all of the information Prudential provided about the retirement plan, 
including the email sent to Mr Ls adviser  to which his illustration  was attached.  And, as Mr L 
has said, these do explain that the figures  quoted  cant be guaranteed  and that a MVR may 
apply. 
However, what the specific amount the reduction  would be isnt included  in that illustration. 
So I can see Mr Ls point about  this not giving  him the detail he would need to make an 
informed choice about whether to go ahead with a withdrawal from his pension  at any time.
A MVR  is a charge  that can apply when  money  is withdrawn from a with-profits fund before 
the end of its term, or the investors  selected retirement age in the case of a pension, and is 
used to make sure that this withdrawal wont be a disadvantage to the remaining investors  
within that fund.  Its a matter for a business  to decide on when and how much of a MVR it 
would apply, and this may depend on other factors  such as the timing  and amount of the 
withdrawal.
So, although  an amount for a MVR wasnt specifically included in Mr Ls illustration, I dont 
think that Prudential  has acted wrongly by not providing this. The information it did provide 
let Mr L and his financial  adviser know that a MVR may be applied. The email to the financial 
adviser says: The with-profits fund moved  to the Income Drawdown plan will include regular 
and final bonuses less any Market Value Reduction where applicable. So I think the 
information that there may be a MVR was sufficient to allow Mr L to make  an informed 
decision about whether to go-ahead with his withdrawal  with the knowledge that the 
amount quoted could be reduced  if a MVR was applied.
But Ive also thought about  what Mr L has said about the delay in the time from his signing 
the forms with his financial adviser, to him receiving  the money into his bank account. 
Prudential has told us that it received the application on 1 October 2018, but found it to be 
incomplete and that no illustration had been  produced. It also showed  that all Mr Ls plans 
were to be transferred  when it was actually to be just one. These  details had to be clarified 
with Mr Ls financial adviser together with confirmation that Mr L accepted the illustration. 
From what  Ive seen, the time Prudential took to process the application was reasonable and 
within its service  level agreement, taking into account that it didnt have all of the required 
information needed when it first received  the illustration. 
I appreciate that Mr Ls financial  adviser may have  told him that Prudential wasnt applying 
MVRs when he met with Mr L to complete his application. However,  Prudential  has told us 
that, even if all of the required information was supplied when it received the application,  a 
MVR still wouldve applied.
Overall, I dont  think that Prudential has acted unfairly with Mr Ls withdrawal request and I 
dont think it should  be required to refund the amount  of the MVR to him.
Ref: DRN75120033my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7512003