K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  dealt with his application 
for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.  He says Halifax told him too late that it wouldnt be willing  
to lend on the property so he was forced  to arrange alternative finance which he says has 
left him struggling financially and personally. Mr J wants Halifax  to compensate him for the 
additional expense  hes been put to.
background
Mr J contacted Halifax in November 2018  as he wanted to buy a BTL property. He received 
a mortgage promise  on 23 November that said he could borrow  up to £78,545 (subject to 
application) based on projected  rental  income of about £450 a month.
There are notes over the next few weeks that show Mr J had been attending property 
auctions and viewing properties  but hadnt  been  successful in finding anything.
On 29 December 2018 it was recorded  that Mr J still hadnt found  a property, but he wanted 
to now include his partner  so it was arranged that theyd attend the branch to complete a 
joint mortgage promise.
On 2 February 2019 Mr J told Halifax hed found  a property. On 4 February 2019 it was 
recorded in Halifaxs  notes that Mr J had made an offer of £41,000 on a property, which  had 
been accepted that day, so an appointment was booked to complete the application the 
following day. Mr J paid a £6,000 deposit  for the property on 4 February 2019 as it was an 
auction property,  where  the deposit is payable immediately, binding  Mr J to his purchase.  
Completion of the purchase took place  on 18 March 2019. The property was a commercial 
unit with residential  accommodation above. Mr J says he intended  to convert the whole 
property into residential accommodation and rent it out. I am assuming Mr Js plans would 
require planning  permission with a change of use from commercial to residential.
A surveyor visited the property on 20 February  2019 but reported back to Halifax that the 
property was a shop front with a flat above.  As such it fell outside  Halifaxs lending  criteria 
and so the bank wouldnt offer Mr J a mortgage  on it.
Because Mr J was committed to completing  on his purchase, he had to arrange alternative 
finance, which has been more expensive and which  Mr J says has put a strain  on his 
personal life.
Mr J complained to Halifax. He said that the advisor had known from the start that the 
property he was buying was a shop  with residential  accommodation above. Yet he was told 
that this wouldnt  be a problem and that Halifax would be able to offer him a mortgage on it. 
Halifax acknowledged that Mr J had wasted his time with numerous branch visits. The bank 
refunded Mr Js valuation  fee of £200 and paid him £500 for trouble and upset. But Halifax  
said that there is nothing  in the notes to suggest that Mr J told the bank  that the property he 
wanted to buy was a commercial  unit with flats above.
Mr J wasnt happy with this and I April 2019  brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN76501532In June 2019 Mr J applied for planning  consent for change of use of the premises to a bar. 
Planning consent  was granted  in September 2019.
An investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said there 
was no guarantee  Halifax  would lend on the property.
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
He is adamant  that the adviser knew all along that he was purchasing  a mixed use property. 
He purchased it on the understanding  Halifax was going to offer him a mortgage  on it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr J wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach my decision.
Ive reviewed the case notes in detail, but there is nothing in there to suggest that Halifax 
knew, or ought to have  known, that Mr J was interested  in buying a mixed  use property. 
Halifaxs policy on BTL mortgages is that the property  has to be ready for occupation, and in 
addition Halifax does  not lend on mixed use properties.
Im aware that Mr J is insistent  that the mortgage  adviser knew  of the type of property he 
wanted to buy. But as theres no record of this in the banks notes, I have  to reach my 
decision on the basis of the available evidence. In this case, the evidence doesnt  support 
Mr Js contention that Halifax  knew this was a commercial unit. 
I appreciate Mr J feels Halifax treated  him unfairly. But its not my role to tell lenders how 
much money  if any - to lend. Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement to 
decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers based on the security theyre putting 
forward. My role is to ensure such judgement is applied  fairly; it isnt to substitute my own 
lending decision for the banks. 
In this case, Halifax applied its lending criteria to Mr Js application. It also reviewed its 
decision to refuse to lend to Mr J. Im satisfied that Halifax took into account all relevant 
factors in relation to Mr Js application. Having  done so, the banks decision to decline the 
application was reached fairly. In the circumstances, I have  no discretion to interfere with 
that decision.
Halifax has accepted  that, if it had known  this on 2 February 2019 (when Mr J told Halifax  
hed found a property), Mr J would  have been told that Halifax wouldnt be able to lend on 
this type of property.  Halifax has acknowledged  that Mr Js time was wasted, and that he 
incurred a valuation  fee. Halifax has refunded the fee of £200 and paid Mr J £500 for trouble 
and upset. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I dont intend 
to order Halifax to do anything further.
Ref: DRN76501533my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7650153