K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Allianz Insurance Plc, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep things 
simple in my decision, Ill just say Allianz  when  Im referring to the PPI seller or to Allianz.
Ms M says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Ms M disagreed with these findings. She has reiterated that she was not aware  PPI had 
been added  to the store card. Ms M has also said that she was not told anything about  the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint for the following reasons:
 The PPI policy was added at the same  time that the store card was applied for. Allianz 
has provided a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time.
There is a section entitled  Payment Protection . In order to take out PPI, a box had to 
be ticked. On the form signed by Ms M, this box was ticked.
Ms M has stated that she did not agree to take out PPI, and that it was added to the 
card without her knowledge. I have  carefully  considered Ms Ms comments  in this 
regard. However, I am mindful that the sale occurred  over 20 years  ago, in my view 
making it more difficult to recall the details of any discussions that took place at the 
time. Overall, taking into account  the contents  of the card application  form, on balance I 
consider it is more likely than not that PPI was presented  to Ms M as an optional  
product, and she chose  to take it out.
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
 Allianz may not have given Ms M sufficient details about the policy  so that she could 
make an informed  choice  about it. However  Ms M doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.
 I have taken into account what Ms M has said about her existing means that she could 
have used to cover card repayments. However overall  my view on balance is that the 
policy could have  been useful to Ms M to help her meet card repayments if she wasnt  
working. Bearing that in mind, I consider that better information would not have led Ms 
M to decide not to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN70975962Although I appreciate Ms M will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion on balance 
is that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097596