K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest),  regarding  its recording of 
his calls, in which he was asked for card details, and for transferring his account  to a debt 
management company  without  prior notice. 
background
Mr M held a credit card account with NatWest. 
Prior to early 2019, Mr M accrued a debt balance, and made arrangements  with NatWest to 
repay the debt at a rate of £150 per month  over six months. 
In early 2019, Mr M spoke  with NatWest in order to make a payment. When  being connected 
he was advised  that calls were recorded.  
When Mr M spoke  with the agent, the agent mentioned that the debt was to be managed by 
a third party company.  Mr M did not appear to have previously known this. 
Mr M gave  his card details, to make  a payment. The agent advised that the card details 
would not be stored.  
Mr M then became concerned that his card details had been captured  on the call recording,  
and made  a complaint. 
NatWest responded  to Mr Ms complaint in February  2019.  It acknowledged that the card 
details discussed  in the call had been  recorded, and that it was working towards  a system 
which did not store card details. It therefore accepted  this part of his complaint. 
NatWest did not uphold Mr Ms complaint in respect  of not having been advised  that the debt 
repayment plan would  be managed by a third party  company, as this was discussed with 
Mr M during his call. 
Mr M was not happy with that response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that the call with NatWest was confusing and it was not made  clear  to Mr M that his card 
details would be recorded. He felt that if it had been made clear then Mr M would  not have 
proceeded with the transaction. He therefore felt that NatWest  should offer compensation to 
Mr M for the distress and inconvenience he suffered from that call. 
NatWest then offered  Mr M £50 compensation. 
Mr M rejected this offer and asked  that the matter be considered  by an ombudsman. He 
stated that due to his worries about  the card details being compromised he obtained a 
replacement card, which he feels NatWest should have proactively offered to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73716622Firstly, I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling  over this issue. This was apparent during his 
call with NatWest, and it was clear that he is concerned that the issue affects more people  
than just him. 
He has acknowledged  in correspondence, that our service may not be the best placed 
organisation to tackle issues  surrounding retention and storage of personal data. As he 
correctly identified, this is the Information Commissioners Office. 
Our role is to consider individual situations  and whether a customer has been treated fairly  
by the business. Where  there is unfairness, we can make awards to compensate for that 
unfairness, and the distress and inconvenience  caused. We do not make punitive  awards,  or 
seek to change systems. This can be done by the industry regulator. 
In this instance, I have  listened to Mr Ms call with the agent, and agree with the 
investigators view that there  was poor communication surrounding whether card details  
would be recorded,  and this led Mr M to make his transaction  by card,  not fully aware that 
his details would be recorded. 
The agent  appeared to answer Mr Ms initial question on the basis that card details were not 
stored as card details,  although by the end of the call it was clear that Mr Ms card payment 
details would be retained in the voice recording.  
During the call, it was, however, made clear to Mr M that a third party  would be managing 
Mr Ms debt repayment plan. This may have  been the first time Mr M was made  aware of 
this, but I do not think this unreasonable.  
NatWest has acknowledged that, at the relevant time, it did not meet  the payment card 
industry standards, and was working to resolve that. There  is therefore  no dispute that the 
card details were retained. 
I agree  with the investigators view that, had this been made clearer  at the outset of the call, 
Mr M would most likely not have provided  his details. He was then sufficiently concerned 
about the security  of that call recording that he decided to cancel his payment card and 
obtain a new card. 
I accept that he has been  caused some distress and inconvenience, by the system for call 
recordings not being made  clear  to him prior to his giving his card details to make  a 
payment. I therefore uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
NatWest has offered £50 compensation to reflect this issue. Mr M has indicated that he feels 
this is derisory, and does  not reflect the inconvenience he was caused. 
I understand Mr Ms view,  but I consider that an offer of £50 is in line with awards that we 
would make in similar  circumstances. I appreciate that he was caused  the inconvenience  of 
obtaining a new card, but there is no suggestion that his card details were  in fact 
compromised, or any other harm caused to him. 
He has said that he thinks that NatWest should  have proactively  offered  a replacement card, 
but I do not agree. Whilst there may have been a weakness in NatWests then system,  there  
was no reason to suspect  that Mr Ms details were  at significant risk at that time. 
Ref: DRN73716623I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr M, but I hope it explains why I agree  
with the investigators  view and why I do not ask NatWest to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint, but think  that National 
Westminster Bank Plc has made a reasonable offer to reflect  the impact upon  Mr M. I do not 
ask National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7371662