K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card in 2002. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs R didnt 
agree so its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
We were sent a copy of the original application  form Mrs R used in 2002 and I think  it 
shows the PPI was something that was optional.
I say this because  to get the PPI added  Mrs R was required to select a box agreeing  to it. 
She didnt  have to do this, but I can see she did and she signed the application form. So I 
think this shows its much more likely  Mrs R asked for the PPI during the meeting the 
parties. And overall, I think Barclays obtained her consent.
Ive treated this as an advised  sale which means  Barclays had an additional responsibility 
to make sure the cover suited Mrs Rs particular situation. I think  it did.
This is because she was eligible for it and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend 
to see in these  types  of policy. The cost was around  79p for every  £100 outstanding on the 
card. This was broadly  comparable with other policies  Ive seen from that time and I think 
would have been affordable for her.
I also note Mrs R said she didnt have much  protection  against sickness  with her job and the 
PPI policy  she was sold would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit  card balance for 
up to a year if shed needed to claim.  
So I think the PPI was suitable for her.
Barclays also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
obviously cant confirm after such a long time that Mrs R was told everything she should  
have been told and I certainly  can see ways  in which the form could have been made 
clearer. But I note it said there was a cost for the PPI and this was situated directly  next to 
where she was asked to make her selection on the form. I also think its reasonable for me to 
say that some additional information about the rules and terms of the PPI would have been 
provided during  the meeting she had with the Barclays adviser. So I think  she would have 
been able to make an informed  decision about  what she wanted to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs R but this means  Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN71635792my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back any 
money to Mrs R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7163579