K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) made a mistake 
when crediting a payment to his account,  and seeks compensation.
background
On 19 September  2018 Mr J made  a faster payment of £300  from his bank to his Amex 
account  which he expected to credit within two hours. But when he wasnt  certain the sum 
had been credited, he made a further  payment of the same amount the following day - to 
ensure it wasnt missed by the due date of 21 September.
When it became clear that the first payment  had been successful, Mr J asked for his second  
payment to be returned. This was done by Amex on 26 September via BACS  transfer to his 
bank account.
Mr J complained to Amex, saying he was unhappy  with the confusion over the first payment; 
the fact a missing  payment investigation  hadnt been launched; the advice he was given 
when he called Amex;  how long it took for his money to be returned to him; and some 
notifications hed received regarding the payments.
Amex explained  what had happened, and that it didnt  think  it had made a mistake.
Mr J didnt agree, and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence, and concluded that Amex hadnt made a mistake  
or treated Mr J unfairly. 
Mr J was unhappy, as he felt our investigator  hadnt considered  all his points, and had taken 
too long to issue a view.  He provided some  further information, but after looking  at it she 
didnt think it changed her opinion and she issued  a second view. She didnt feel Amex  owed 
Mr J an apology for what had happened  with the payments, and hadnt  found evidence of 
poor customer service when hed tried to sort things out.
Mr J still didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator that Amex didnt make a mistake,  
and I wont be asking  it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing  for Mr J, and I do believe his genuine 
frustration with what happened.  Im also aware  he has another  complaint against Amex,  and 
that hes unhappy with the service weve provided to him. But I hope  I can explain why I 
believe my conclusion on the merits of this complaint  is fair to both  parties.
Mr J was inconvenienced when he couldnt  be certain his monthly payment to Amex had 
been received.  This was partly  due to what was showing  on his Amex  phone app. So he 
called Amex for advice,  and as a result made a second payment as a precautionary 
Ref: DRN72797192measure. While I agree this wasnt an ideal set of events, I cant see that it was caused by 
any mistake or failing on Amexs part.
If Mr J was advised to make a second  payment, to be on the safe side, I cant say this was 
bad advice. It would be better than the consequences of a missed payment. And when on 25 
September Mr J complained and asked for his second £300  back,  Im satisfied this request 
and refund was processed without any undue delay.
Mr J himself has said that his previous monthly faster  payments  had always gone through 
within hours, and without issue  so it doesnt  look like theres a general problem with the 
payment system. And I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be Amexs  intention to 
cause its customers unnecessary problems or make life difficult. Ive also not seen any 
evidence of poor treatment or customer service.
For these reasons, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint. Theres insufficient 
evidence to allow me to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279719