K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that U K Insurance Limited sold her car following a total loss and then 
gave her incorrect information and poor service.
background
In April 2018, Miss R was involved in a road traffic collision and her car was declared a 
Category N total loss. This meant that her car was considered to be beyond economical 
repair but had non-structural damage. When she found out the categorisation she 
contacted UKI to retain the salvage  so she could repair and use the car again. UKI told her 
this wasnt possible as the car had already been  sent to a salvage agent and was no longer 
in their possession.
UKIs engineer who prepared the inspection report told her she couldnt retain the 
salvage. She contacted UKI to discuss this but was given incorrect  information. Miss R 
was also unable to retrieve personal items  which had been left in the car. UKI reimbursed 
her £56 for these.
UKI initially  accepted they had made  errors and offered  Miss R £250  compensation  
(including the personal possessions). They later said in their final response letter that they 
had followed  the correct processes. Once the instruction is sent to the salvage  agents and 
is cleared by them, they are unable to change it.
The investigator at this service upheld the complaint and said that UKI hadnt  given
Miss R the chance to retain the salvage.  No pre-accident value had been  agreed or paid 
to her and UKI had wrongly sent it to the salvage  agents. UKI didnt comment on this. 
The investigator awarded Miss R £500 in addition to the £250 that UKI had already 
offered.
Miss R didnt agree with the compensation amount offered. She felt that UKI hadnt  
satisfactorily explained why her car has been seen on the road after she was told her car 
was going to the salvage agents to be scrapped. This she was told was the reason she 
wasnt able to retain the salvage.  She asked for the complaint to be reviewed again so 
this has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
On 29 March 2019, I issued a provisional decision.  I said:
Miss R contacted UKI in May 2018 to ask to retain  the salvage and was told she couldnt 
because they no longer  had the car in their possession. We would expect  an insurer  to 
allow a consumer to be able to retain the salvage because  the car is still the consumers 
property until the claim  is settled and they should have the right to keep it if they wish to do 
so. Miss R didnt immediately ask to retain  the salvage as she wasnt  initially  informed 
about the category of total loss or offered the salvage. The salvage not being offered to an 
insured unless asked is standard  practice and so I dont  think  UKI have done anything 
wrong here.  However,  the claim had not yet settled and no pre accident value had been 
agreed at this stage  so UKI should  have still retained Miss Rs car instead  of sending it to 
salvage. So I am satisfied  that in not retaining the car at this point, UKI unfairly deprived 
Miss R of the salvage.
Ref: DRN73618842Our role is to put things right when a business has done something wrong  and to put the 
complainant back  in the position they would have been in before it went wrong. Here we 
are unable to put Miss R back in the position  she wouldve been in as the car has already 
been sold. Miss R has already been  paid the pre-accident  value  of the car and so she 
hasnt lost out financially. But there has clearly been  an impact as a result  of being 
unfairly deprived the opportunity to keep her car if she wanted  to. The fact that she 
contacted UKI the next day after finding  out about  the Category N total loss shows  
retaining the salvage and repairing  the car is something she did want  to do. Whilst I 
appreciate Miss R couldve replaced  her car with a similar car upon receiving the 
settlement amount, this doesnt replace the sentimental value she placed on the car she 
already had. So I am persuaded that being  unfairly  deprived of this has caused her 
distress and inconvenience.
I have to consider whether Miss R was given  incorrect or mis-leading information  and 
whether this resulted in any distress or inconvenience to her. She says she was told she 
couldnt retain the salvage after the car had been written  off because the insurer  wouldnt 
let her. She then contacted the insurer who told her she could retain the salvage at a cost 
of £190. But she was later told it wasnt possible as the car had already been sent to 
salvage by the time this conversation with UKI had taken place. Although the calls with 
the engineer are not available, I can see from the information we do have that Miss R was 
quick to contact UKI to ask to retain  the salvage. She spoke to both the engineer and UKI 
the next day after she found out about the total loss category. The notes from UKI also 
suggest that it was possible to prevent the salvage from going  ahead but this wasnt  
followed up on immediately. I think Miss R was clear in her request to retain the salvage 
and on balance appears to have been  prevented from doing this. Overall  I think  UKI could 
have done more to satisfy Miss Rs request, and I think it gave her conflicting  and 
misleading information about what she could  and couldnt do.
I have looked at the impact the sale of the car has had on her. I appreciate seeing the car 
on the road would  have  undoubtedly been  upsetting, particularly as Miss R was given 
misleading information and thought the car was going to be scrapped. But once the car 
has gone to the salvage agent it is for them to decide to do with the car as they see fit. 
Although UKI havent  done anything wrong in this respect,  essentially  this situation only 
arose because UKI didnt  allow Miss R to retain the salvage.
I acknowledge  that the situation  was upsetting for Miss R and I fully understand  why
she doesnt feel the compensation amount offered by UKI is sufficient. UKI should have 
allowed Miss R to buy back her car if she wanted to up until the claim had been settled. I 
also feel UKI couldve done more to assist Miss R when she called them asking to retain  the 
salvage. She had to call multiple times and was given conflicting  information,  adding to the 
inconvenience shed  been caused.  Taking  all these things into account, I think  £500 
represents fair compensation for the trouble and upset UKI caused Miss R. UKI should pay 
Miss R £500, less any amount already paid.
responses to my provisional  decision
In my provisional decision I gave both parties until 12 April 2019 to respond with any further 
comments and information.  Miss R responded accepting the provisional decision. UKI didnt 
respond. 
Ref: DRN73618843my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R accepted  my provisional  decision and UKI havent responded with anything  
further, I see no reason  to depart  from my provisional findings.  For the reasons Ive given in 
my provisional findings I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited. They  should 
pay Miss R £500, less any amount already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7361884