K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  has declined and then 
cancelled their Life and Critical Illness policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs C applied for their cover in July 2010  through an IFA with another insurer  Ill 
refer to as A. Their  policies then started in September 2010. Whilst the policy  was active  
Aviva became Mr and Mrs Cs insurer. 
When the policy was sold Mr C answered  No to the following questions;
In the last five years have you had any of the following:
Any form of medical attention  at a hospital  or clinic as an inpatient  or an outpatient, 
which has not already  been disclosed?
Are you due to have any check-ups in the next 12 months in connection with any 
medical condition,  or are you waiting for the result of any medical investigation that 
you have not already  told us about?
Aviva says Mr C shouldve  said yes to these questions.
Sadly, in 2018  Mr C had to make a claim under the terminal illness section of his policy. 
Aviva reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It said Mr C shouldve told it about  a 
hospital visit he had before he applied  for the policy and a hospital  referral before the policy  
began. It then told Mr and Mrs C it was going to cancel their policies and refund their 
premiums.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with this decision,  so they made a complaint.  Aviva reviewed 
the complaint  but decided not to uphold it. It said in its final response letter - dated  
6 December 2018  it was upholding  its decision  to reject the claim, cancel the policies  and 
refund the premiums.  
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to this service. They added 
that Avivas decision wasnt fair and they didnt understand  why Mrs Cs policy had also been  
cancelled. Aviva said it felt the mis-representation by Mr C was reckless so that is why it 
cancelled the policy. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and decided to uphold it in part. He said Avivas 
decision to reject the claim was fair. He felt Mr C had misrepresented his medical 
circumstances when  he applied for the policy so Avivas decision to cancel the policy  and 
refund the premiums  was fair. But Aviva shouldnt have cancelled Mrs Cs policy  as well. So 
it should offer to reinstate  her cover. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  in relation to the claim. They feel they did mention Mr Cs 
circumstances to their IFA and didnt agree that Aviva would know  what  the original insurer  
wouldve done when  they applied for the policy. They  also felt Aviva  could  have dealt with 
the claim faster which caused them additional  distress. Mrs C added that she doesnt want to 
continue her insurance policy with Aviva. 
Ref: DRN79970092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs C feel 
strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain 
why.
As the sale of this policy was in 2010  I have considered the Association of British Insurers  
(ABI) Code on Non-Disclosure and Treating Customers Fairly (the Code).
Has there  been  a misrepresentation?
In order to ask Aviva  to pay the claim in full, I would need to be satisfied Mr C hadnt non-
disclosed when applying for this policy or that it was innocent. Under the section Notes on 
innocent non-disclosure  or misrepresentation, the Code states that typical characteristics of 
innocent non-disclosure  or misrepresentation are;
7.1.1 The question  was not clear  enough  any ambiguous  wording should  be construed  in 
favour of the customer. 
7.1.2 The question did not apply clearly to the facts in question. 
7.1.3 It was reasonable for the customer to have overlooked  the omitted information  for 
example, a minor  childhood  ailment. 
Looking at the above requirements, Im not persuaded  any of these situations  apply  to 
Mr Cs circumstances. Further, the code  explains that innocent  non-disclosure includes 
whether a reasonable person wouldve considered that the information wasnt  relevant  to the 
insurer. 
Ive thought about the questions posed  carefully  and Im satisfied they were clear and 
specific. Im satisfied from the medical  evidence Mr C was admitted to A&E for severe back 
pain two days before they applied for the policy. I note Mr C told Aviva  he didnt think this 
was serious so he didnt  disclose  it. However,  the treating Doctor  at the time recorded in his 
notes that this pain was more severe  than Mr C had experienced before with his back and 
he was concerned enough  to go to hospital. So I dont think it was reasonable for him not to 
disclose this information to Aviva.
Mr C was then referred  to a urology department on 27 July 2010.  Although  this was after 
they had applied for the policy the above  questions were sent to them to review  before the 
cover started in September 2010. The reason Aviva did this is so that the information can be 
reviewed and confirmed  as accurate which is standard industry practice.  
I think Mr C shouldve disclosed his A&E visit to Aviva when he applied for the policy  and 
then he shouldve made it aware of the referral  before the policy started. So I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Aviva to say Mr C had been reckless when applying  for this policy. A 
visit to A&E isnt something which can be forgotten or reasonably  considered as not relevant 
in such a short space  of time before  applying  for the policy. And Aviva werent told about  any 
inaccuracies on the application  before the policy started.  So Im satisfied Aviva can fairly say 
Mr C was reckless.  This means it can fairly  void the policy and cancel  it from inception  under 
the Code.  
Ref: DRN79970093Even if I did consider  Mr C had been negligent under the Code when answering the above 
questions, Aviva has still correctly cancelled his policy and refunded the premiums.  This is 
because Aviva has shown  that the policy for Mr C wouldve been put on hold for a year by A 
to find out more information.  And the Code says that it is reasonable for Aviva to treat this 
policy as having  been declined.
The time it took Aviva to review the claim
I can understand the frustration Mr and Mrs C experienced whilst waiting for Aviva  to 
consider the claim  and then the disappointment  with its decision. In some  instances, this 
service says, it isnt unreasonable for a claim to sometimes take months  to decide as long as 
Aviva hasnt caused any unnecessary delays. I cant see any significant delays caused by 
Aviva here. It needs to ask for information  from third parties  such as the GP and consultant 
which can take time. So I dont think Aviva  should  pay any compensation  to Mr and Mrs C 
for the way it handled the claim.  
Mrs Cs policy
Aviva has now offered to still insure  Mrs C but she has said she doesnt want  to accept this 
offer. I think Avivas offer to still insure Mrs C is fair in the circumstances. The mis-
representation was in relation to Mr Cs medical  circumstances not Mrs C. So this shouldve 
had no bearing  on her policy. 
The sale of the policy
Mrs C has said they told their financial  advisor about  the hospital visit and they checked the 
form over the phone in a rush. Unfortunately, this doesnt change my position on this 
complaint. Im satisfied  Aviva has acted within the code based  upon the questions it asked 
in the application and the medical  evidence.  
If Mr and Mrs C feel the policy was mis-sold they will need to raise the complaint against 
their financial  advisor.  
So Im satisfied Aviva has not treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or acted outside of the relevant 
regulations in relation to Mr Cs claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  this complaint in part. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to cancel Mrs Cs policy was unfair and it 
should reinstate  this if Mrs C wants to continue with her cover.  
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline, cancel and refund premiums for 
Mr Cs policy  was fair. So Im not upholding this part of the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Ref: DRN79970094Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997009