K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance, (PPI), 
policy. 
background
Mr O bought the policy in a meeting  in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr O disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided that Lloyds did not mis-sell  the policy to Mr O because`;:
 Mr O says that he wasnt  made  aware that the policy was optional. But I think  Lloyds 
made Mr O aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  Mr Os credit card application form.  This has a section in it headed  
Optional Features. One of the features offered  is PPI and I can see that the box 
relating to this has been ticked to request the insurance. I cant be sure that it was 
Mr O himself who filled in the form this way. But even  if it had been Lloyds 
representative who did so, Im satisfied that this would have been after a discussion 
with Mr O and to reflect his wishes. And I think that Mr O would have had the 
opportunity to read through the form before being asked to sign it.
Because it was so long ago I can understand why Mr O does not remember  this.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr O, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because:
oMr O was eligible for the policy;
oMr O wasnt  caught by any of the policys main  limitations or restrictions  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr O has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But that 
he had no other  insurance or savings to help him make  his monthly credit 
card payments had he been off work. However,  following  a successful claim, 
the PPI would have paid 10% of Mr Os credit card balance  a month for up to 
12 months. This is a longer period than Mr Os sick pay from his employment  
would have covered.  And the payments would also have been made if he had 
become involuntarily  unemployed.  So I find that The PPI could have been of 
use to Mr O.
Ref: DRN77981222oThe insurance was competitively priced by reference to other similar  policies 
available in the market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit.  And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr O couldnt afford  the premiums.  In 
any event, as the premiums were  paid for monthly, Mr O could  have 
cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost if he has later felt that it 
was unaffordable or he no longer wanted  it.
 The credit  card application, to which Ive referred above, set out the monthly premiums. 
But its possible the other information  Lloyds  gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. Bur as Ive concluded  that the policy was suitable for Mr O, I 
dont think better  information  would have  changed his mind  and stopped  him buying  it. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I find that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-
sold, so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7798122