K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says Coventry Building Society  mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs O took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. Mrs O paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Os PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Coventry dont have Mrs Os original paperwork, but I think thats understandable given just 
how long ago the sale was, and that the policy has long since closed. Mrs Os representative 
says she doesnt  remember  taking out PPI, though  they also said she did take it but thought  
it was just part of the mortgage  application.  I think its also understandable for Mrs O to not 
remember the sale, again given how long ago it was, and given that buying insurance  isnt 
often memorable.
Coventry have given us samples of the paperwork Mrs O wouldve used at the time of the 
sale. I can see that the mortgage  application wouldve had a section for PPI, which  explained 
what it was and said it was a recommended product  and this was only a recommendation, 
not a requirement.  There were boxes Mrs O could fill in to choose  what type of policy she 
wanted, or which could  be left blank if she didnt want it. Then  it looks like in order to get the 
policy, Mrs O wouldve  sent in an application  specifically  for it. Again, if she didnt want  PPI, 
she didnt have to apply for it  the PPI application wouldve been separate  to applying  for 
the mortgage itself.  It looks like the PPI application came with more details about the policy,  
along with a section to work out what it cost. And the mortgage  offer wouldve also set out 
the cost of the PPI separately to the cost of the mortgage. 
Overall, I think its most likely that Coventry  made  Mrs O aware she had a choice about  
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Coventry gave  Mrs O a personalised  recommendation to take PPI, or 
not. The rules were stricter on Coventry if they did, so to be fairer to Mrs O Ive assumed that 
they did recommend  PPI. That would mean  they had to check  the policy was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Ref: DRN72698072For example, Mrs O doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the policys  key 
exclusions or limitations. And while she said she had some good benefits through  work, the 
PPI paid out on top of those and covered her more  comprehensively, especially when her 
benefits reduced to just half pay. I understand that Mrs Os friends  and family  may have 
been more than willing to help, but there  was always the chance  theyd be unable to help 
when needed.  And this policy meant Mrs O wouldnt have to ask her friends  or family  to 
make her mortgage payments. Its worth bearing  in mind that the mortgage was Mrs Os sole 
responsibility, and if she fell behind on her payments she risked losing her home. So I think  
the PPI couldve  really been useful for her in protecting her home.
Since I dont have the original paperwork,  I dont  know exactly what  information Coventry 
gave Mrs O about the PPI. So its possible that that information wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I said above, it doesnt  look like Mrs O was affected by any of the 
main things the PPI didnt  cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something 
went wrong. So I dont  think that better information was likely to have put Mrs O off taking 
out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7269807