K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint concerns their whole  of life policy, taken out with a predecessor  of 
Phoenix Life Limited. Theyre unhappy that following a review of the policy theyve been 
asked to significantly increase their premiums to maintain the sum assured.  
background 
Mr and Mrs A took out their policy in in 1998.  It provided a sum assured of just under 
£142,000 for a monthly premium of £58, plus a small amount for a waiver  of premium  
benefit.  
In 2018 the policy was reviewed and Phoenix Life informed Mr and Mrs A that to maintain 
the sum assured the premiums would have to be increase to just over £211, or the sum 
assured reduced  to just over £58,000. They were very unhappy with this as it was their 
understanding that once the policy had been  reviewed at its 10th anniversary (in 2008  a 
review that it passed, with the premiums and sum assured remaining as theyd been  at the 
outset) it would not be reviewed again.
They complained to Phoenix Life and it investigated their concerns. It felt that the 
documentation showed that Mr and Mrs A had a need for and wanted  to take out life cover 
on a whole of life basis. But it didnt think that the adviser had considered the future 
affordability of the policy. 
To put things right Phoenix Life offered to set up a new policy with the same premiums but 
providing a reduced  sum assured of just under £49,000, but which would be on a non-
reviewable basis going forward, meaning that provided the premiums  were paid the policy  
would last for the whole  of their lives.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept this and referred the matter to this service. Our adjudicator 
broadly accepted Phoenix Lifes position  but suggested that Mr and Mrs A should,  as an 
alternative, also be offered a refund of all the premiums  paid to the policy, minus the cost of 
life cover provided, plus interest. Phoenix  Life confirmed that would be a refund of 
£2,877.22, with the policy then ending. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept this view either  and remained adamant  that the policy should 
continue as theyd  been led to believe it would, with the original premium and sum assured. 
They said that while the adjudicator and Phoenix Life had said that their policy  was 
reviewable this wasnt  supported  by the documentation, which nowhere referred to additional 
reviews taking place  after the initial 10-year review.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs A have strong  feelings about the matter.  Theyve  provided  detailed  
submissions to support  their complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety.  
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my findings focus on what  I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre  expressed  in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose  of 
Ref: DRN76173982my decision  is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
Mr and Mrs A are adamant that the policy they were  sold in 1998 was only reviewable in the 
sense that it was subject to a review at its 10th anniversary. So, having passed  that review  in 
2008 without any changes being  necessary, the policy should continue with the premiums  
and sum assured at the same level for the rest of their lives. 
I can understand how that impression might have been created. The way in which the policy  
would operate  wasnt  made particularly clear in the documentation provided  to them  at the 
time of the sale. For instance, the suitability  letter  the document they wouldve been most 
likely to read and rely upon  said;
After 10 years, a review of your policy may be needed. If during the policy review it is found  
that your premium needs to be increased to maintain the same level of benefits, you would 
be given a choice  as to whether you wish to pay the increased premium or reduce the life 
cover benefits  
But the letter  made no further reference to reviews. And there was no clear indication  of how 
the policy would work  in some of the other  documents, such  as the illustration. 
So, I think the policy was mis-sold to them,  for this reason  and also the related reason, 
identified by Phoenix Life, that future affordability  wasnt properly considered.  
But that said, despite the misunderstanding created by the documentation,  Im satisfied that 
the policy sold to them was reviewable,  so subject to further reviews after the 10-year 
anniversary, at five-year intervals  2013  then 2018   and later at annual intervals. I say this 
because the terms  of the policy referred  to the policy reviews, for instance; 
(The predecessor business) shall carry out a Policy  Review  on the tenth anniversary of the 
Date of Assurance  and thereafter  on every  subsequent fifth anniversary of the Date  of 
Assurance.
So, having  concluded that the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs A  as Phoenix Life also 
concluded  the next step is to decide how the matter should be put right. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly  that the policy  should  simply continue in the way 
theyd been led to expect it would, with the original premium and the original sum assured. 
But, while they might  have been  led to believe otherwise, the policy was never intended  to 
work in that way. While  I accept that Mr and Mrs A strongly dispute  this fact, it was correct 
that the policy was reviewed in 2018 with the resulting need for the premiums  to be 
increased/the sum assured  decreased.  
Phoenixs Lifes error relates  the way in which the policy was sold to them  the adviser not 
being clear about  the reviews and properly  considering the policys affordability. What I must  
therefore decide is what is most likely  to have happened if that error hadnt been made and 
Mr and Mrs A had been advised  correctly and properly informed.
They clearly  had a need for and wanted life cover. So, there wouldve been several options 
open to them. They couldve taken  out a non-reviewable policy  for the same sum assured, 
but that wouldve cost around £170  per month.  And as their budget  was around £60, I think  
its unlikely theyd have  done so. 
Ref: DRN76173983They couldve taken out a term assurance policy for a specific number of years.  If they had 
done, they may well have  chosen only to take cover, for instance, until their children had 
become independent, in which  case the policy would probably  have  ended  by now.  But in 
any event, it was documented  that they wanted  whole of life cover and it appears  that 20 
years on from the sale of the policy they still require cover. So, I think  thats unlikely too. 
So ultimately, its very difficult to say with any certainty what  position Mr and Mrs A would be 
in today if theyd  been correctly advised and better informed.  And that being so, while  I 
understand they strongly disagree,  I think the offers already made to them  are fair and 
reasonable ways  of putting things right. The options act to put them  as near as possible to a 
position they would likely  have been in had they chosen cover  that could  realistically 
continue for the whole of their lives, or maybe taken term cover that may well have cost them  
less.
Finally, I note their concerns raised  in relation  to the complaint about data protection  and 
Phoenix Life asking  for address details for Mr A and discussing  the matter  with Mrs A. While 
I accept it was unfortunate that these matters  arose  while  Mr and Mrs A were making their 
complaint, I dont think Phoenix  Life acted incorrectly in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to compensate 
Mr and Mrs A by offering  them the choice of either; 
Ending the existing  policy and taking  its surrender value then starting a new non-
reviewable policy with a sum assured  of £48,625 with the original premiums; or
A refund of premiums, minus the cost of life cover, plus interest at 8% simple from 
the point the premiums were  paid to date of settlement. The policy will then be 
terminated without  value. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7617398