K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading  as Abbey National), mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a home improvement loan,  which is essentially a 
type of mortgage,  sometime before the year 2000.  Mr and Mrs B say they started  the policy 
in 1993 but neither side is certain  about the start date. They  say they paid a yearly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander shouldve  made it clear  the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr and Mrs Bs 
agreement to buy it. Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt made clear  to them  that the PPI was 
optional. 
Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI policy in a meeting. Mr and Mrs B and Santander  havent  been 
able to provide  much  detail about what was said in this meeting. And there  isnt much 
paperwork from the time of sale either. Thats understandable given the time that has 
passed. But it means I dont know what was discussed. So Ive thought carefully  about  what  
Mr and Mrs B and Santander have said. And what I know about Santanders sales  
processes to help me make my decision. 
Having done this, I dont have enough to say that its likely Santander  told Mr and Mrs B that 
they needed to buy a PPI policy to start the loan. Overall I think its more likely that 
Santander made Mr and Mrs B aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and they 
chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs B say they were pressured into buying the PPI by Santander. And I dont doubt 
their genuine  feelings  about  what mayve happened in the meeting. But other  than raising 
this issue they havent  provided much detail as to why they felt pressured. Again thats 
understandable given  the time thats  passed.  But this does  mean I havent seen enough to 
uphold the complaint only on what theyve  said.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it shouldve  made sure it was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need the policy. 
Ref: DRN78548902Mr and Mrs Bs loan was a significant, long-term, financial commitment. If Mr and Mrs B 
couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the loan 
was secured on their home, Mr and Mrs B couldve potentially lost their property if they fell 
into financial  difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Bs loan repayments if Mr and Mrs B couldnt work due to 
illness, or they lost their jobs.  The payment  wouldve been  in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits, they might  have received if this happened.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford to make the payments for the PPI 
at the time of sale. And they dont appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So overall the PPI seems to 
have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  Its possible the information 
Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But as I said earlier, based on what I know about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, it looks  like 
the policy couldve been useful to them. So I dont think  better information wouldve stopped 
them buying  it. And I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out due to anything  that Santander  
mightve done wrong.  
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including  what theyve  said about 
the lack of information from the time of sale. But they bought  the policy a long time ago so 
this is understandable.  And I think Ive been able to reach a fair outcome with what I have.  
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7854890