K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  with a mortgage.  
background
Mrs S took out PPI with her mortgage  in 1996, at a meeting with Nationwide.  The policy 
covered her for accident, sickness  and unemployment. At the outset it cost around 
£53 per month, for around £800  per month of cover. It was a condition  of the policy  that she 
had to wait 60 days before  making  a claim. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months 
per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Mrs S didnt agree, so her complaint  has 
been passed to me to consider. 
In summary,  Mrs S said that although  the policy covered self-employed  people,  given  the 
nature of her work, it wouldve been  near impossible for her to make a successful claim for 
unemployment benefit. She said she wouldnt have  taken  out the policy had she understood 
this, and realised in effect, she was paying  for accident and sickness  cover  only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Nationwide has sent in a copy of Mrs Ss mortgage  application and mortgage offer. I can see 
from this that it wasnt a condition of the mortgage that she had to take PPI. Mrs S wouldve 
had to fill out a separate application form to take out PPI. Nationwide  no longer has a copy of 
this. Businesses often only keep records for six years, and Mrs S cancelled her policy  in 
2000, so I can understand why Nationwide no longer has this.
Looking at the paperwork that is available,  and from what Mrs S recalls, I think it was made 
clear that PPI was an optional extra  and she didnt need to take it to get the mortgage. I think  
it likely  that PPI was added because Mrs S said she wanted it. 
Mrs S said she was given a leaflet about  PPI. At the end of that leaflet it said that PPI was 
strongly advised However, I dont think this was an advised sale, where Mrs Ss individual  
circumstances were  considered by Nationwide. So, I think it was up to Mrs S to decide for 
herself whether  the PPI was right for her and she wanted it. I cant  see the by using these 
words, Nationwide  misled Mrs S into believing it was making a personal  recommendation.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, I cant  see that it was inappropriate for her, given her circumstances.  I 
say this because:
it looks like PPI was affordable;
Ref: DRN76621172she was self-employed, but was eligible to take out the policy;
she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations  or exclusions  on cover, for example 
she didnt have  any pre-existing medical  conditions; and 
Mrs S said her father  couldve  helped with her repayments. But given the long term 
nature of her mortgage, and that help of this kind cant  always be guaranteed  when 
the time comes, I havent placed much reliance  on this as a means of repayment.
Mrs S said,  in her circumstances, it wouldve been near impossible for her to make a 
successful claim  for unemployment because  of the nature  of her work. She said,  effectively, 
she wouldve been forced to close her business, if she wanted to claim PPI during  a lean 
period. Ive thought very carefully about Mrs Ss individual circumstances, but I think it was 
no more difficult for her to make a successful claim, than it was for an employed person or 
another self-employed.  Ill explain why.
Mrs S was given a choice when  she took out the policy  about  the waiting period to be 
applied, before she could make  a successful claim. She couldve opted  for a waiting 
period of 30 days, but opted  for a 60 day waiting  period. The policy  wouldve paid out 
for 24 months per successful claim.  Mrs S said she didnt  think  the length of the 
waiting period made any difference in terms of how difficult  it was for her to make a 
claim;
Mrs S said it was very unlikely that she wouldve had no work  at all within a 60 day 
period, given what she did and her wide client base.  But, if she didnt have  her 
regular level of work, and couldnt have afforded to pay her mortgage as a result,  she 
said she wouldnt have been able to claim, if she did some work.  Mrs S distinguished 
her position from other types of self- employed people.  As I see it, the same situation 
could potentially apply  to other  self employed people, or an employed person whose 
working hours are reduced by their employer   they too wouldnt have been  able to 
claim for unemployment if they did some work, but less than usual. So, I cant  see 
that this made Mrs Ss situation any worse  than it was for an employed person, or 
another self-employed person during a lean period.
As our adjudicator said, the policy terms didnt go as far as requiring Mrs S to wind 
down her business to make a successful claim. But, Mrs S said if she turned away  
work, to be able to claim under  the policy for unemployment, effectively,  she would 
lose most of her clients and her business  this way. This was because availability was 
such a critical  factor  in her line of work. Whilst Mrs S may have had to make  a hard 
choice about whether  to accept the work,  again,  in my view, an employed person or a 
self-employed person in another line of work  couldve found  themselves in a 
comparable situation, deciding whether to risk losing clients,  accept reduced hours or 
be made unemployed.
The policy also covered Mrs S for accident and sickness.  I note what  Mrs Ss said,  
that she wouldnt have  taken out the policy just for accident and sickness  cover. 
However, I think PPI couldve been useful to her in these circumstances, to help 
meet her repayments for up to 24 months  if she wasnt fit enough to work. I cant see 
that her other resources  made the policy inappropriate for her needs.
Mrs S said that the information she gave Nationwide about her employment  situation 
shouldve alerted it to the fact that this policy was unsuitable for her. But, this wasnt  an 
advised sale, so Nationwide  didnt have to consider  whether the policy  was suitable for her, 
in her circumstances.  However,  to avoid any doubt,  even had this been  an advised  sale, 
based on what Ive seen, and said above, I cant see that PPI wouldve been  unsuitable  for 
her.
Ref: DRN76621173I do think Nationwide couldve given Mrs S clearer information about the costs of the policy.  
But, given that she appeared  to want the cover, the policy covered her for everything, and it 
appeared affordable, I cant see that having  more information wouldve led to her making a 
different decision and not buying PPI.
So, I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking out the 
cover. Ultimately, the mortgage was a big and long term commitment,  secured  on her home. 
Mrs S was responsible for making  the repayments  and the consequences  of failing to do so 
couldve been serious.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But 
Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662117