K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
in connection  with his mortgage.
background
In 2005 Mr M took out a mortgage with Halifax, which later became part of Bank of Scotland.  
In 2007 during a meeting  to increase his borrowing, Mr M took out PPI to cover his income 
and protect his mortgage payments in the event he couldnt work through accident, sickness  
or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £32.13 a month and it provided  a benefit to cover  Mr Ms monthly mortgage 
payment of approximately  £400 per month plus an additional 33% payment per month on 
top.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence showed  
that Mr M chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a 
result.
Mr M disagrees so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr M with 
enough information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for him based on his needs  and circumstances 
at the time. Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide  as there  is limited evidence available from the time of 
the sale, around 12 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice  about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in Jul 2007,  at a meeting where Mr M was increasing his mortgage  
loan. I dont know what Bank of Scotland said to Mr M and I have no application form or 
credit agreement. I do however have a letter accepting Mr Ms application for the PPI and 
welcoming him to his PPI cover.   
I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr M a choice about taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Bank  of Scotland gave him the impression he had to take it out. But it 
seems more likely  Bank of Scotland gave Mr M the opportunity to take out the policy  or 
Ref: DRN76699122decline it as part of his mortgage application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed. 
I say this because  this service has no evidence of Bank of Scotland systemically telling 
consumers they had to have PPI at this time. Mr Ms acceptance letter for his policy implies 
that he chose  it rather  than was told he had to have it. Mr M had had the mortgage without 
PPI for two years so would have been  aware  that he could borrow without taking PPI. Mr M 
didnt take all the cover available,  he took out accident, sickness  and employment cover  but 
appears to have declined other insurances available in the offer. And had he chosen not to 
purchase PPI, or had it been added to his account  without either his knowledge or consent,  
I wouldve  expected  him to query  or challenge this shortly afterwards,  especially  as I think its 
likely that the PPI cost made his monthly repayments shown on his statements over £32 
higher than the monthly cost of the advance he would have seen  in his loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr Ms complaint) it is more  likely 
than not Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Mr M as compulsory or that it didnt tell 
him about the policy at all.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr M properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr M lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr M. I also 
dont know what information Mr M was given about the PPI, for example, whether  he was 
told about the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr M agreed to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if he received 
everything he needed to know to allow him to make  an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Mr M that he take out PPI. I accept Mr M may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Mr Ms circumstances and needs at the time, I think the policy  cover was 
suitable for him. And I find it unlikely  that Mr M would have acted differently and not gone  
ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland had given him more  information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Mr M was eligible for the cover  and all its benefits
Mr M was working and in good health  at the time, so it doesnt appear he would have 
been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the cover such  as existing 
medical condition  exclusions or unusual employment terms. 
Mr M was buying the house on his own. I note that he had savings that could have 
covered his payments for up to 3 months  if he became sick or lost his job, and hes 
unsure but he might  have had some sick pay entitlement from his employer. But the 
policy would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay from his 
employer for up to 12 months for each  claim and enabled him to keep his savings for 
other things. So I think  Mr M had a need  for cover and that it would have  been  useful 
to him if Mr M found he was unable to work. It could have helped him financially  at 
what would be a difficult time - it could  have helped him protect his home. For 
completeness, I note that Mr M says he had other income insurance cover at the 
time. But hes been unable to provide any information or evidence  about it, so I think  
Ref: DRN76699123its more likely than not that he may be mistaken and that he didnt. So it doesnt  
change my view of his need  for the PPI.
I find it unlikely Mr M would have agreed to something without having  some 
understanding of the cost and I note that the cost is shown clearly  on the PPI 
welcome letter. And I think its unlikely he would have declined it solely on the basis  
of its cost had it been made clearer to him. Ive already said he had a need  for it and 
at approximately  £32 per month it appears to have been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
M may not have been  treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland  in its dealings with 
him, I find hes not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons Ive detailed  above, 
I think Mr M would have  been in the same position  if Bank  of Scotland  had done more  and 
properly advised  and informed him - I think he would have still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr M has not lost out as a result of taking out 
PPI with his mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7669912