K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) failed to cancel a standing  
order when he asked  them to.
background
Mr G set up a standing  order for a gym membership in 2011. 
Mr G contacted RBS in January 2019  asking  for information on whether his standing order 
had been cancelled. Mr G believed he cancelled it around the middle of 2015. The call 
handler said he would look into this and Mr G would hear back in a few days. 
RBS wrote to Mr G and explained  that in 2012  the standing order  was amended  because  
there was a request for the payee  account details to be changed.  RBS also said there wasnt  
any evidence of the standing order being cancelled in 2015, or any evidence of a 
cancellation request.
Mr G complained to RBS saying that they didnt  cancel his standing  order as he had 
requested in 2015. RBS said whilst  they believed what Mr G had told them,  they wouldnt be 
refunding any payments.  RBS advised this service in April 2019 that they should have 
explained to Mr G that as they hadnt seen any evidence of him cancelling  his standing order  
they couldnt award any compensation for his complaint. 
The adjudicator thought  RBS could have explained  things  more clearly to Mr G. But there 
wasnt any evidence of Mr G cancelling his standing order in 2015, so RBS didnt  have to 
pay any compensation for the complaint.  
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators findings, and so the case  has been passed  to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr G, but having  reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending compensation for this complaint.
Mr G says that he cancelled his standing order with RBS around 2015, and so RBS should 
refund him payments  taken from his account from this date. RBS say that all payments taken 
from Mr Gs account  have  been in line with the authority he gave in 2011. They say the 
standing order payments continued until Mr G closed his account in 2018. 
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have  
happened. Although  Mr G says he cancelled his standing order  around  2015, the evidence 
Ive seen makes me think its more  likely  that he didnt cancel. I can understand this is likely 
to come as a disappointment  to Mr G but I hope  my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.  
Ive listened to the call of 3 January 2019 when Mr G contacted RBS to ask whether he had 
cancelled his standing  order.  During  this call, Mr G tells the call handler that he thought  he 
had cancelled his standing order, and his call was to find out whether he had cancelled  it or 
Ref: DRN76416882not. Later  in the call Mr G says it was cancelled at least  in 2016 and about the middle of 
2015. I can understand that as a long time had passed, its only natural that Mr G wouldnt 
remember specific dates and times. But from listening to the call it sounds like Mr G was 
asking for information  on whether he had cancelled, instead of complaining to RBS that he 
had definitely  cancelled and they hadnt  done  as he had asked.  
Ive also looked  at the statements Mr G would have  had access  to, showing  all account 
activity. I appreciate its not always practical to keep  track of all account activity. But I do 
think theres a responsibility on every  account holder to manage  their account, and as part of 
this, review statements  on a regular basis. 
In Mr Gs case, Ive seen that from 2011 until the account was closed in 2018, Mr Gs 
statements clearly showed  a standing order payment being made for the same amount, and 
around the same time every month.  I think that there  was enough time for Mr G to have 
noticed from 2015 that payments were  being made for his gym membership. Mr G feels 
strongly that he contacted RBS to cancel  his standing order, but the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support  this. Even if I was to accept that Mr G contacted RBS when he says he did, 
its clear from his statements that the payments  were still being taken. 
The evidence Ive seen  shows the standing order payments  were  made with Mr Gs 
authority, and Mr G was clearly made aware  of this standing order  in the statements  for his 
account. For these  reasons I dont think RBS should pay any compensation for this 
complaint because I cant see that they have made an error.
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7641688