K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First 
Direct. He says he was unable to make payments from his account  for a number of weeks 
over the Christmas period.
background
Mr S contacted first direct a number of times  in December  2018 and January 2019 to 
complain that payments  he was trying to make using a mobile payment app - which Ill refer 
to as A - were being declined.  Initially first direct said that it couldnt see any evidence of 
declined transactions on his account. And he was given various different explanations as to 
what the problem  was, including suggestions  that fault lay with the retailer he was attempting 
to purchase from, or his mobile phone. 
Mr S was then told he needed to delete  the debit card details stored in A and add those of 
the new card hed been sent. But he says he didnt have a new card and so wasnt able to 
do this.
In its final response to his complaint first direct said it had sent Mr S a new debit card on the 
20 October 2018, but that the details hadnt correctly  updated in A. It explained this update  is 
done by Visa, not first direct. And that there  had been an issue with Visa which prevented  
this from happening.  As a result A had still been linked to Mr Ss old expired  card,  meaning 
his transactions  were  being declined. 
first direct acknowledged that Mr S had initially been  given some incorrect  information  from 
its frontline staff. And that hed also been  incorrectly told that hed need to make a Chip and 
PIN transaction with his new debit card before A would work. It credited  his account with 
£100 to apologise for the inconvenience caused. It also said it had sent Mr S a replacement 
debit card as he wasnt able to locate the new one itd previously issued.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. Hes 
unhappy with the length of time it took first direct to resolve this matter. He says he wasnt  
able to make  payments  again until the end of January 2019. And that this affected his ability 
to buy food and gifts over Christmas and caused  him a lot of stress. 
Our investigator looked at everything  that had happened in detail  and agreed  that first direct 
had made  some mistakes. But she also said that whilst  she thought first direct  couldve 
handled Mr Ss complaint  better, she didnt think it was solely  responsible for how long his 
problems with A had continued. And felt that £100 compensation was fair to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr S disagrees. He thinks that the matter  was only resolved because of his persistence 
contacting first direct. And he wants first direct to pay him £200 compensation to take into 
account the time and cost of his calls to it, the number of errors it made, and the distress this 
caused him. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask first direct to do anything further to resolve it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN73210762Mr S has said that its not necessary for me to spend to further  time detailing the root cause 
of his complaint  as our investigator has already done this, and first direct has accepted it 
made multiple mistakes. Hes asked me to focus  on the level of compensation hes been 
offered, and consider what settlement it would be fair for first direct  to make given he was 
without a card for 8 weeks and had to keep  contacting it to resolve  the matter. 
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly about this complaint.  It was clearly a very frustrating 
situation and caused him distress. I also acknowledge that first direct did make mistakes, 
especially when Mr S first contacted it about  his issues  with A. It failed to identify the 
problem, and in fact gave him incorrect information  on several calls about the possible 
causes of it.
However Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen and heard that first direct  confirmed on 
the 8 December 2018 that to resolve the problem  Mr Ss card details would need to be 
deleted from A. And hed instead need  to add the details  of the new card its shown  it sent 
him on the 20 October 2018. When it spoke to him again on the 10 December 2018 it offered 
to cancel this card and send him a replacement  if he couldnt locate it. But Mr S declined.
first direct has also shown us that this information was reiterated to Mr S a number of times 
before he agreed  it could  send him a replacement debit card, which he registered with A on 
the 26 January  2019. And its explained that, if hed been able to locate it, Mr S couldve 
used his physical  debit card during the period  his A details were incorrect. 
I understand Mr S felt first direct  should  have been  able to resolve the problem without him 
needing to delete and re-add his card details. But I accept first directs explanation  that this 
wasnt possible here. And I dont think the fact that A hadnt  been automatically updated with 
his new card details  was its fault either.
 
I also appreciate that Mr S feels strongly that he shouldnt  need to have a physical debit 
card. But as our investigator explained, its first directs process to provide one. And our 
service isnt in a position to review how it chooses to operate  its business, or ask it to make  
changes to its policies.
When reaching this decision Ive also taken into account the other elements of first directs  
service that Mr S has complained about. I understand there were occasions  when he didnt 
receive call backs hed been promised. first direct says it did try to reach  him on some of 
these occasions,  but accepts it failed  to call him back on 20 December 2018. Its also 
explained that its aware of the problems  Mr S said he had with its online complaint form.
Overall, I think that £100 compensation is reasonable to reflect the mistakes  and incorrect  
information given  by first direct. I accept Mr S was unable to make payments for 8 weeks.  
But I think its reasonable first direct  feels that this timeframe couldve been considerably 
reduced had he followed  its instructions  sooner.  And I note he could have accessed his 
money in the account by other means during this time.
Ref: DRN73210763my final decision
My final decision is that the £100 compensation already paid by HSBC  UK Bank Plc, trading 
as first direct, is sufficient to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7321076