K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Newcastle Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992.  Another ombudsman has 
already told Mr and Mrs K that due to a dispute  over responsibility for the sale,  we cant 
consider it against  Newcastle  Building  Society. 
My decision  will only deal with the later amendments to the policy in 1997 and 1998.
Mr and Mrs K paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint because:
I think Newcastle made Mr and Mrs K aware that they had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and they chose  to take it. I say this because:
ofor 1997- Ive seen a copy of the further advance application,  in the section  
offering an option for PPI, its been  handwritten; Arranged on existing 
mortgage. 
Ive also seen a handwritten letter  signed  by Mr and Mrs K thats date 
stamped 29 May 1997. It says; .I wish payment protection on my further 
advance. This suggests that Mr and Mrs K knew that PPI was optional as 
they chose to amend the policy.  Ive also seen copies of some  further  
paperwork sent to Mr and Mrs K outlining the approximate cost of the policy 
per month, so I also think its reasonable to assume  that they knew  they were  
taking it.
ofor March 1998: Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage application. On 
this application  theres a section offering an option for PPI, but its been  left 
blank. 
Ive also seen a copy of an internal system  screenshot  that shows around  20 
January 1998  the business  called Mr and Mrs K to discuss  their salary at the 
time. The call note also says I ASKED  MR IF THEY WOULD LIKE PPP [this 
was the name for PPI] AND IF HE WOULD LIKE OR HAS HE GOT LIFE 
Ref: DRN76384572COVER. HE WOULD LIKE  PREMIUM FOR  PPP AND INFO. RE, LIFE 
COVER.
The offer of further advance then outlines the approximate cost per month  of 
the PPI.
oAugust 1998  sale: Similar to the March 1998  sale, the section for PPI on the 
further advance  application has been  left blank. The system notes have  
recorded that an incoming call was received from Mr K and he confirmed he 
required payment  protection. The further advance offer dated 12 August 
1998 also refers  to PPI and the approximate cost.
So, on balance having considered all of the available evidence, I think  that its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs K were  made  aware  that PPI was optional and they 
chose to take it out. I appreciate that not all of the information from the sales  is now 
available, but Ive come to my decision based  on the available  evidence and what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
Ive considered that Newcastle recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, and it seems 
to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. 
Ive assumed that Newcastle couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it 
did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs K would still have  bought it. I think that      
Mr and Mrs K would have reasonably been aware that there was a cost for PPI and        
I think they were made aware of the actual cost in the further advance  offer letters.  
Its possible Newcastle didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr K 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ks comments, including  what  theyve said about  not 
needing PPI because of Mr Ks sick pay entitlement. But after 6 months Mr Ks sick pay 
would have decreased to half pay. 
The PPI policy would  have paid out for up to 12 months per claim,  in addition to any sick 
pay. This would have  allowed Mr K the option  of not needing to rely on his sick pay to help 
pay his mortgage  repayments and hed also have the option  of being able to use his sick pay 
to pay for other living expenses that they may have  had. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76384573
Ref: DRN7638457