K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about the advice that she received in 1993 from Sesame Limited  to 
transfer the value of her accrued occupational  pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a new 
personal pension  plan (PPP).
Mrs B states that the benefits  from the PPP are much lower  than the benefits that she would 
have received from the OPS and she wants to be compensated for her losses.
background
Mrs B was a member of her former  employers  OPS from July 1980  to December 1991. 
In 1993 Mrs B met an adviser (whose  sales are now the responsibility of Sesame). She was 
advised to transfer her benefits from the OPS to a new PPP. The transfer went  ahead and a 
sum of £18,910 was transferred to a new PPP provider. 
In 1997 following the widespread misselling of personal pension  plans (including pension 
transfers) the regulator set up the industrywide  pension review exercise. Under this, where 
misselling had arisen and had resulted in a loss, redress was payable.
Mrs B was mailed the required  questionnaire under the pension review in September  1997 
and was sent a reminder approximately one month later. However,  as the letters were 
incorrectly addressed,  she says they were not received by her.
In late 2016 Mrs B approached her pension provider  as she was looking to take benefits 
from her PPP.  She received a quotation from the pension provider but as she was unhappy 
with the benefits that she was being  offered from the PPP she complained to Sesame about 
the advice she had received to transfer.
Sesame initially tried to argue that the complaint  had been made outside the time limits set 
down in the rules  under  which this service  operates. 
The issue  of jurisdiction was investigated  by another ombudsman  who stated in their 
decision that this was indeed a complaint that this service could investigate.
At that point of time the complaint was referred back  to an adjudicator  to consider the merits 
of the complaint.
In his view, dated 19 February  2019, he set out the reasons why the complaint should  not be 
upheld. He noted that the advice had been  provided in 1993 (now  some 26 years ago) and 
that unfortunately there was no written  record of what was discussed  at the time.
The adjudicator stated that there was very limited written detail available  on the transaction. 
The business did have  a copy of the deferred  benefits statement that had been  given to   
Mrs B when she left her former employers occupational pension  scheme.  So there wasnt 
enough evidence  for the adjudicator to say Mrs B had been poorly advised.  
The adjudicator explained that as there  wasnt a copy of the critical yield calculation on file 
he had asked a firm of independent actuaries to carry out the calculation.  A copy  was given 
to Mrs B. The actuaries  determined that a rate of return of 9.8% (the critical yield)  would 
Ref: DRN72149332have been required  to provide benefits at normal retirement age of equal value to those from 
the OPS.
The adjudicator then considered whether, at the time of advice, the critical yield of 9.8% 
would have been considered a high risk investment.  That is, whether it would have been 
expected that on retirement, after transfer, there was a high chance that Mrs B would be 
worse off.
The adjudicator noted that in 1993 the standard assumed growth rates  to be used in pension  
policy illustrations, which  were set down  by the regulator, were 8.5% and 13%. These  were  
not the upper and lower  limits but were  used to give illustrations to prospective policyholders. 
A rate of return of 9.8% would, at the time of advice some 26 years ago, have been thought 
to be reasonable.  That is, 9.8% wouldnt have been  considered a particularly high or 
unachievable rate of investment growth and it would have been considered reasonably  likely 
that the benefits available to Mrs B, on retirement,  would be greater if she transferred from 
the OPS.
Overall, the adjudicator thought there was little evidence to suggest Mrs B had been  badly 
advised and the advice  to transfer wouldnt have been considered unreasonable,  based on 
the critical yield and anticipated investment returns at the time the advice  was given. 
Mrs B did not accept the adjudicators view.  She said that at the time of advice she was not 
prepared to take any risk with her investments. She has said that had she been  told that by 
transferring she was giving up guaranteed  pension benefits payable  from her 60th birthday 
and replacing  them with an arrangement where the level of pension would depend on future 
investment returns and annuity  rates  at retirement,  she would not have transferred.
Mrs B asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman. She stated that:
1.Sesame did not carry out a transfer value analysis at the time in 1991.  In the 
absence of this their advice should  have been not to transfer.
2.Sesame did not assess  her appetite for investment risk correctly. Sesame did not 
retain any records to support their case.
3.Sesame should  be asked to justify the advice to transfer.
4.Sesame should  pay redress if she has incurred a loss.
Sesame made no further comments  on this case.
As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to note is that this complaint involves a pension transfer that took place  in 
February 1993 which is now some 26 years  ago. 
Ref: DRN72149333It is unfortunate that there  are no records available as to what  was discussed or details of 
Mrs Bs circumstances and attitude to investment  risk at the time.
I note that Mrs B has stated now that she was not willing to take any risk. However,  there is 
no evidence to support  this statement  from the time of advice.
I also note Mrs B says Sesame did not carry out a transfer value  analysis at the time in 
1991. In the absence of this she says their advice should have been not to transfer. It is not 
clear to me whether or not a transfer value analysis was completed or not, but if it had been, 
it seems likely the advice would have been to transfer, based  on the critical yield calculation.  
While I note Mrs B says Sesame did not assess her appetite for investment risk correctly 
and it should have retained  records and be able to justify its advice, given the length  of time 
thats passed, I dont  find the lack of records particularly surprising. While unfortunate, there 
is insufficient evidence  for me to safely conclude that Mrs B was not prepared to take any 
risk with her pension investments or that Sesame gave her unsuitable advice.
I note that the critical yield calculated  by the external actuaries  would  indicate  that the   
transfer value  offered  was not unreasonable for the benefits that were  being given up.
It is of course very disappointing that the investment returns achieved on the transfer value 
have been much lower  than was expected and it is this fact combined  with the fact that 
annuity rates  are much more expensive than was forecast that has meant that the expected  
gains arising from transferring out have not arisen. However  this could not have been  
foreseen at the time of advice.
I am unable  to uphold  the complaint about  the advice that was given 26 years ago without 
clear evidence that the advice given was inappropriate at the time and where the little 
evidence I do have,  in the form of the actuarial calculations  carried  out now, suggests  the 
advice was likely to have  been considered suitable. As there is no such  evidence I am 
unable to uphold  this complaint.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and I make no award.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7214933