K822xcomplaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the resolution proposed by Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance), following his claim against it under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
background 
In mid 2012,  Mr Y was contacted by a company that supplied  and installed  solar photovoltaic 
micro-generation systems, called PV Solar  Uk Ltd (PV).  Mr Y agreed  to the installation of 
solar panels  to his home costing around £11,500. These were to be funded  by a 10 year 
fixed sum loan with Barclays Partner Finance  (BPF).  The panels were soon installed.
In May 2017, Mr Y contacted BPF to make  a claim under section 75 (s.75) of the CCA.  He 
said hed been  told that the solar panels  would  pay off the loan within  three years,  by the 
feed-in-tariff (FIT) in essence that they would be self-funded. And that this hadnt  been the 
case. 
BPF started  looking into the claim but wasnt able to give Mr Y a definitive  timescale  of when 
it would  be able to give him an answer.  Unhappy with this, Mr Y referred  his complaint to our 
service in August  2017.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer to Mr Y. BPF worked  out what  it considered  
to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr Y from the panels over the 10 
year term of the loan.  It then recalculated  the loan so that Mr Y would pay no more  than that 
amount over the 10 year term.
This meant that the loan balance would decrease by £5,497 leaving an outstanding  balance  
of £736. BPF offered  two ways for Mr F to pay the balance of the loan. He could  continue  to 
pay his existing loan payments of around  £160  until the loan was paid off. Or alternatively 
spread the loan balance  over the remaining  term (48 month  as at July 2018) interest free. 
This would bring  his monthly payment to around  £15.
Mr Y didnt accept this offer. He said that he couldnt afford to make any more monthly 
payments and he felt it was unfair  hed been charged interest. He also said hed been  told 
the system would pay for itself in three  years.
Mr Y asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
The relevant  law that applies to this case includes Section 56 and s.75 of the CCA. Both of 
these provide protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S.75 
states:
Ref: DRN74614892If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr Y paid for his solar  panels with a fixed sum loan, BPF have  agreed  that s.75 applies. 
This means  that Mr Y could claim against  BPF  the creditor   for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by PV in the same way that he couldve claimed against PV, the supplier. 
So Ive taken s.75 into account  when  deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This says that any negotiations between  Mr Y and PV, as the 
supplier, are deemed  to have been conducted by PV as an agent for BPF.
what happened?
Mr Y has said he was contacted by PV and during a sales meeting told that the installation 
would be entirely  self-financing.  I havent seen anything to suggest that hed shown  a 
previous interest  in solar panels before he was approached by PV. Its difficult  to see why Mr 
Y would have agreed to the installations  financed through  a loan that would  increase  his 
monthly outgoings. I think its unlikely that he wouldve agreed to install  the solar panel  
system and take a loan with BPF unless he was led to believe that it would be self-funding 
and come at no additional  financial cost to him.
Ive also considered the action taken by Renewable  Energy Consumer Code (RECC) 
against PV. My understanding is that RECC administers  the renewable energy consumer 
Code and ensures  its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated PVs conduct. In July 2017 it determined that PV was in breach of a 
number of sections  of the code including Sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to 
essentially requiring members not to provide false or misleading  information to consumers 
and providing  clear and accurate information  about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
Whilst in understand  that what happened in respect of the cases  RECC looked into may not 
necessarily have happened in Mr Ys case, the findings do suggest  that there were  conduct 
concerns in the areas relating to Mr Ys complaint.
Taking all of the above into account, I believe that it is more likely than not that the 
salesperson from PV led Mr Y to believe that the solar panels  would be self-funding and the 
savings would be sufficient to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement.  
was the solar panel  system self-funding at no extra cost for Mr Y?
Neither Mr Y nor BPF seem to think that the solar panel system would be self-funding  over 
the term of the loan.
Im of the opinion that for the solar panels  to be self-funding and be no additional cost to Mr 
Y, the savings and income he would receive  should have been sufficient to cover  the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
Ref: DRN74614893To clarify, Mr Ys expected savings  and incomes  from the solar panels  are from:
(1)generation income tariff,
(2)export tariff income, and;
(3)savings to Mr Y by using the electricity generated by the panels  instead of buying  it 
from his energy provider.
Based on the calculation  provided by BPF the total expected return  from the above three 
items, over the 10 years of the loan agreement would be around £12,430, or around £1,243 
a year.  However,  the loan repayments  were about £1,920 a year.
Taking this into account, Mr Y was likely to be out of pocket by about  £677 in the first year.  
And that wouldve broadly been the same during the term of the loan. This means that even 
based on this estimate,  the solar panels werent self-funding.  So Im satisfied that PV 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr Y.
did Mr Y suffer a loss?
Mr Y didnt have any experience of solar panel  systems and he was called by PV. Im 
satisfied that Mr Y decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar panels based on the 
representation made  by PV that they would be self-funding.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I find that Mr Y has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by PV. The panels werent self-funding and hr ended up paying a 
significant amount  over the savings. And as BPF has equal liability  for the misrepresentation 
made by PV, I find that it is responsible  for Mr Ys loss. 
fair compensation
Mr Y has said that he thinks it is unfair  that hes been charged interest as he was told that 
the loan would be paid off in three  years.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimal formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role here is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ys complaint  is that it isnt so much about the solar panels  themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. I think the fair outcome  here is to 
Mr Y in a position where the panels  are self-funding over the original  term of the loan. By 
keeping the panels Mr Y will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills or FIT payments going  
forward.
BPF says that its offer is to effectively make the solar panels  self-funding  in the sense that 
the loan repayments and interest charged, over the term of the loan, would broadly match Mr 
Ys potential  savings and the FIT income  from the solar panels.
Mr Y has said that he was told that the loan repayments would  be covered by the FIT. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether any savings should  be taken into account  when  arriving at 
fair compensation.
Ref: DRN74614894Although Im satisfied  that Mr Y was misled into thinking the solar panels  would be self-
funding, its difficult  for me to know exactly how this was explained to him. The RECCs 
findings I referred to earlier do suggest  that on occasions PV may have misled consumers 
about the costs  and benefits of the systems  sold.
If I accept what  Mr Y has said, I think that when a consumer  decides to go ahead and install 
solar panels,  its reasonable to assume  that their key objective is to firstly generate  electricity 
for their own use. So I dont consider  it reasonable to ignore this important benefit when 
arriving at fair compensation.
Ive also thought about if Mr Y was led to believe that the fixed  sum loan would be repaid 
within three years. There is very little paperwork available to me from the time Mr Y agreed 
to the installation of the solar panels. All I have is some hand written figures, given to Mr Y 
by the salesperson, showing the savings for years one, five and ten.  And  based  on these 
figures I cannot see any reference to year three. Year one showed an annual saving of 
£1,834 and year five an annual saving of £2,413. Taking this into account, compared to the 
fixed sum loan of £11,535,  I cant see how Mr Y wouldve broken even by year three.
other assumptions
BPF has said its calculation is based on the actual performance and estimated future 
performance of Mr Ys solar  panels. This shows that the first annual system  generation to be 
3,707 kWh and then it has allowed for an annual  degradation of 0.5%.
And based on the FIT statements provided  by Mr Y I think this is fair.
BPF has also used an assumption that 50% of the energy  generated would be used by Mr Y. 
Ive looked at the Energy  Savings Trust website and it currently  gives  a table of potential  
savings under various different scenarios depending  on the location  and the consumers 
lifestyle rather than a specific percentage.
Its clear that there are various factors that determine the actual level of savings a consumer 
could make. Even with respect to the same  consumer,  that figure could change from time to 
time. So in my view determining an exact  figure  over a period of 10 years is difficult. And, as 
previously said, in determining fair compensation in cases of this nature isnt an exact 
science and my aim is to arrive at an outcome thats fair and reasonable overall.
BPFs saving assumption is based  on how the export FIT income is calculated and paid, as 
set out by the government. The export FIT income  is calculated on the assumption  that 50% 
of the energy produced  will be exported to the national grid. So there is an implied 
assumption that the remaining 50% is used by the consumer. Given  what  Ive explained 
above, I find that in order  to arrive  at a fair compensation figure,  estimating  potential savings 
by assuming 50% usage isnt unreasonable.
Ive also considered the other assumptions BPF has used such as the electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
they dont seem unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures.  As an example 
the actual average  RPI for the last 4 years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure.
 
other issues
Ref: DRN74614895Mr Y has raised some concerns on whether BPF considered whether the loan was 
affordable to him. 
From reviewing the information  provided I can see that Mr Y has been able to make  the 
contractual monthly repayments. So, on the face of it, it doesnt  appear that the loan was 
unaffordable to the extent  that he was unable to meet his monthly  payments. However, I 
accept that his financial situation  wouldve been  stretched and it finding additional money  
each month  wouldve caused him upset. I can see that BPF have since offered to pay Mr Y 
£200 in recognition of this and I think this is fair in the circumstances.
summary
My aim is to put Mr Y as close to the position he wouldve been in but for the 
misrepresentation.
For the reasons  given  I consider that the remedy  proposed  by BPF represents fair 
compensation in this case plus £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited.
In full and final settlement  it should:
(a)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr Y from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework the loan such that he pays  no more  than that amount. 
This means updating the calculation BPF provided us in its email of 25 January 2019.  
My understanding is this will be a refund of around £230 due to overpayments  made;
(b)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement;
(c)pay Mr Y £200 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr Y how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr Y a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs. 
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461489