K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  (Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  at a meeting in 1994  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs B for accident, sickness  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It cost just over £20 a month at the start and offered 
to pay £150 a month for a successful claim on either  Mr or Mrs B (£300  for a claim on both)  
to help with their mortgage related  costs.  
Mr and Mrs B have  told us they were  both entitled  at the time to redundancy pay, sick pay of 
six months full pay then six months half pay and didnt have any other means, like savings, 
with which  to pay the mortgage if they couldnt work. From what Mr and Mrs B have  told us, 
at the time of the sale they were in good  health and hadnt had any health  issues.
Mr B was employed as a process operator and had been there seven years at the time of 
sale. Mrs B told us she was employed  as a nurse  and had been in her job two years  at the 
time, but the mortgage application  Mr and Mrs B signed says she had been in her job for 
four months. It also says Mrs B had worked  elsewhere before that in a similar role for six 
months, but it doesnt say whether there  was any gap in between the two employments.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2004. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative says,  in summary:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs B 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN73273322The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN73273323I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Bs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application form 
had a section  for Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance. This asked whether the 
Ref: DRN73273324PPI was wanted - and said to answer  either Y or N. On Mr and Mrs Bs form, which they 
signed to apply for the mortgage,  the answer Y was entered   and I think it likely they 
wouldve known the answer should  be N if they didnt want  the cover. All this makes  it look 
like the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs B at the mortgage meeting as something they 
could say yes or no to  and that they said yes to it, knowing they could say no instead.
The mortgage application form also says the appropriate application form  should  be 
completed if the PPI was wanted. So it looks like there was a separate application form for 
the PPI. Having a separate form would  tend to support the impression that the PPI was 
something separate from the mortgage.  Halifax cant provide Mr and Mrs Bs form now, but 
that isnt surprising given the time that has passed  since the sale.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of their mortgage package. But, with all Ive said above in mind, taking everything into 
account I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs B knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it 
without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs B say Halifax  didnt give advice. 
But if Halifax  did provide  advice, it had to do more.  With this in mind,  I think  its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Halifax  gave advice. This means it had to advise Mr and Mrs B 
with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. There is no record of what exactly Halifax  discussed in 
relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting. Halifax  had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Bs financial  circumstances  from the mortgage 
application  such as their employment  statuses, salaries and length of service in their 
current jobs. Also, Halifax has records for both Mr and Mrs B which  are answered  yes to 
them being  in work and not being  aware of impending unemployment or pre-existing medical 
conditions. But Ive nothing to show when or how exactly this information was gathered   or 
to show Halifax considered any gaps between Mrs Bs job at the time and her previous jobs. 
With all this in mind, what I have doesnt show that Halifax did enough to establish,  before 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to the policy, whether they would be caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the cover didnt fully meet their needs.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN73273325-Although Mr and Mrs B say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   even allowing for their work sickness  and 
redundancy benefits, it seems likely they would suffer a fall in income were Mr or Mrs B 
unable to work for a prolonged period due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The 
policy benefit would help Mr and Mrs B manage the consequences - and at what  could 
be a difficult time were Mr or Mrs B, or both, unemployed  or too sick to work. Also, given  
what theyve said about being  financially stretched, it seems possible Mr and Mrs Bs 
finances mightve been put under strain without the policy benefit if either  one or them  or 
both werent able to work  and so, by helping with mortgage related costs,  the benefit  
would make it less likely  Mr and Mrs Bs home  would be put at risk.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that benefits would only 
be paid for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim and Mr and Mrs B couldnt claim for 
disability unless Mr or Mrs B were not only unable to do his or her own or any similar job, 
but also unable  to do any paid work his or her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified him or her to do). But the PPI still provided  valuable cover given 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, the loss of income they were likely  to suffer were they 
unable to work for an extended period due to disability or redundancy and the help the 
policy benefit could  give them  in those situations. I also bear in mind that the policy  was 
to protect  the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Bs home and the potential  consequences were 
they to have become unable to pay the mortgage  loan secured on their house.
-The policy terms required unemployment claims be preceded by 12 months continuous  
employment. Mrs B had been in her job around  six and a half months when the policy  
and mortgage  started. So if there  had been  a gap of more than two weeks between  her 
starting her job and ending her previous  job (in which she spent six months), she would 
need to stay in continuous employment  for longer  - around five and a half months more - 
before shed be able to claim  for unemployment.  This is two and a half months more than 
the initial 90-day  period from the policy start during which  unemployment that started or 
of which  notice was given was excluded anyway.  Ive considered this carefully. The PPI 
would, subject to its terms, still offer cover during that time for Mr B for unemployment 
and for Mr and Mrs B for disability. And Mr and Mrs B didnt have any existing health 
issues that couldve affected their ability to claim  for disability. Also,  nothing  else about  
their employments or occupations wouldve made it difficult for them to claim. With all 
this in mind, and the protection the PPI still gave them for their mortgage, on balance I 
dont think the policy exclusions  or limitations  made  the PPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if 
Mr or Mrs B, or both,  were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and 
of the approximate costs.  
Ref: DRN73273326I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken 
the policy without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
the PPI section of their mortgage application  form said the PPI was insurance against 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment and called the PPI Mortgage Payments 
Protector  which also wouldve  given an idea of what  the PPI was.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs B all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Bs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
Ref: DRN73273327While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs B had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if they were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted 
that product.  But they made  that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  
they thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. It 
doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact  premium at the point they applied for the policy. 
But I consider it unlikely they wouldve agreed  to the policy  without having at least  some  idea 
of the approximate cost.  Also, if, when they started  to pay it or otherwise got notification of it, 
the actual cost had been  significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible Mr and Mrs B might have raised  that with Halifax or reconsidered their decision at 
the time - instead of paying it like they did for a number of years.  Overall,  Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact 
figure when  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs B would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim on each of them  (an 
equal share of an amount sufficient to meet their mortgage payment) were  significantly 
different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr or Mrs B knew  or should have 
known about or had got advice or treatment for from a doctor in the 12 months  before  the 
policy start and which recurred within 24 months  of the policy  start (also  if Mr or Mrs B 
were aware at the policy start of a health issue in the 12 months before the start that 
might cause  them to claim, claims directly  related to that health issue were excluded); 
Ref: DRN73273328The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr or Mrs B 
werent permanent  employees  or if before their employment ended  Mr or Mrs B werent 
in continuous  work  for 12 months  (but not being  in work  for two weeks or less wouldnt  
count as a break);
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs B be unable  to do his 
or her own or any similar job and unable to do any paid work his or her experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified him or her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, not the remaining mortgage  term.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs B were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proven 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Mrs B couldnt claim for 
unemployment until shed  been in continuous  work  for 12 months.  But Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr or Mrs B wouldve been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions  they were in permanent  employment,  for example, and neither of them had any 
pre-existing health issues. So, I think they still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs B might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs B had known that to claim disability Mr or Mrs B had to be unable  to do his or 
her own or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work  his or her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified him or her to do, it might have played  into their thinking  about 
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given them pause for thought  but, given their 
circumstances, on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs B any claim they made would be limited  to 12 months.  
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for  but 12 months 
was longer than they wouldve received full sick pay for and their redundancy  entitlements 
were also likely significantly less than 12 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B wouldve still thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  benefit them and help them  manage  the 
consequences were  Mr or Mrs B unable to work in the circumstances the policy  covered.  
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made. By helping with mortgage related costs, 
the benefit could help reduce Mr and Mrs Bs outgoings, help ensure their home wasnt 
placed at risk and potentially  help preserve their sick pay or redundancy money  for other 
uses - at what  might be a difficult time if Mr or Mrs B were unemployed or too sick to work.
Ref: DRN73273329Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs B would still have taken  the policy. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs B were  made redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  the policy in any event,  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs B think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
Ref: DRN732733210the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1994 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7327332