K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited caused damage to his home  when 
he made a claim under  his home emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr A held a Home Care  policy with British Gas, which provided cover for his boiler.
In May 2018  Mr A experienced problems with his boiler  it was turning itself off 
intermittently. He reported it to British Gas and an engineer attended  on 20 May 2018 and 
carried out some maintenance. Mr A says he noticed  the boiler had been left leaking  so he 
called British Gas again.
A second engineer, Mr N, attended on 22 May 2018. He identified  the leak and ordered 
parts. He returned  on 23 May 2018  to fit parts but one part couldnt be replaced as it was 
obsolete. Mr A says Mr N left the boiler leaking  and a few hours later the leak became 
significant, causing water damage to his home.
A third engineer visited  Mr A on 25 May 2018, he didnt complete any work on the boiler but 
drained it and made it safe.
Mr A complained via social media. He said his boiler hadnt leaked  until British Gas 
engineers worked  on it. So, he considered British Gas was responsible  for the leak and 
damage to his home. British Gas didnt agree. It said a different part had failed following 
Mr Ns visits, which  had caused  the leak. So, as per the policy  terms, it wasnt  responsible  
for the damage  caused. But it paid Mr A £20 for some service issues.
Mr A remained unhappy  and referred his complaint to our service.  He said his ceiling needed 
to be repaired.
The investigator upheld  Mr As complaint. She thought  the evidence  British Gas had 
provided didnt  support  its position.  This was because the notes appeared to show Mr N had 
left the boiler leaking. And as the boiler  hadnt been leaking until the engineers visits, on 
balance she thought British Gas should  take responsibility for the damage  caused to Mr Ns 
home. The investigator also recommended British Gas should  pay an extra  £180 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
British Gas didnt  respond. So, the complaint was referred to me to make  a final decision.
I advised British  Gas that I was also inclined to uphold the complaint. But British Gas didnt  
reply, despite being given  extra time to respond. For this reason, Im now providing my final 
decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Ref: DRN79342872British Gas has provided little evidence in this case to substantiate its position. The notes 
recorded by the engineers who visited Mr As property are very limited.  Having  reviewed the 
notes, it seems Mr N switched off the boiler  and ordered parts  when he visited  on 
22 May 2018. His note reads:
CODE4/5 ELI<1HM ALL OFF PARTS REQ
Mr N returned on 23 May 2018  and made  the following note:
CODE7/4 ELI<1HM 3AMP FITTED PARTS BUT MAIN HEAT ENGINE  LEAKING PART 
OBSOLETE
British Gas final response says that Mr N isolated  the leak and ordered a new heat 
exchanger. But I dont think the note shows this. Instead, I think it demonstrates  the boiler 
was left leaking and that the heat exchanger part was obsolete  this also matches up with 
Mr As social  media messages in which he reported the leak.
British Gas has said the leak Mr A reported late on 23 May 2018 was the result  of a separate 
part failing, a mixer tap. But, again,  the contemporaneous notes dont show this. The 
engineer who attended on 25 May 2018  left the following note:
71CODE LEAKING  H/EX OBSOLETE PER PREV  ENG. MADE SAFE  ONLY.  DRAINED & 
ISOLATED MAINS IN/OUT. NO WORK
The note doesnt  say anything about  a mixer tap  it refers  to the leaking heat exchanger  
Mr N had reported. British  Gas hasnt provided  any other evidence showing that a mixer tap 
was the cause of the leak.
I dont think I can say for certain that British  Gas engineers caused Mr As boiler to start 
leaking. But based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think they couldve prevented it from causing 
damage to his home. The notes suggest  to me that Mr N was aware  the boiler was leaking 
and left it in that way, without draining and isolating  it to prevent further leaking. Had he done  
this, I think its more  likely than not the leak that caused damage to Mr As ceiling couldve 
been avoided.
As I understand it, Mr A hasnt yet carried out any repairs. For this reason, I think  a fair 
resolution to this complaint is for British Gas to arrange for the damage caused by the leak to 
be repaired. But if Mr A prefers to use his own contractor, I think British Gas should cover 
reasonable costs  associated  with this. I also think it should pay total compensation of £200  
for the trouble and upset  resulting from the damage caused by the leak.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN79342873British Gas Insurance Limited should either  arrange for the damage to Mr As home caused 
by the leak to be repaired. If Mr A instead prefers to use his own contractor, it should cover  
reasonable costs  of repairing the damage.
It should also pay him an extra £180 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7934287