K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  she was given incorrect information, about  the process for obtaining pre-
authorisation of the cost of an operation for her dog, by Red Sands Insurance  Company
(Europe) Limited (Red Sands), and that they declined  her claim for the cost of his surgery.
background
Ms K has had a Superior  Lifetime pet insurance  policy for her dog with Red Sands since  31
December 2017.  Before she took out the policy her dog had been  seen by a vet several
times during 2015 and 2016  for stomach-related problems, although no specific  diagnosis
was made.  But Ms K didnt declare any pre-existing medical conditions to Red Sands.
In September  2018 Ms Ks dog was unwell  and, following a scan,  her vet advised he needed
urgent surgery for pyloric outflow obstruction. Ms K called Red Sands to try and obtain pre-
authorisation of the cost of the surgery, as the operation was due to be carried out the
following day. She says Reds  Sands wrongly advised her that this authorisation could be
obtained very quickly by her vets, and as this wasnt possible, due to the urgency of the
situation, she had no choice but to go ahead with the surgery  which  cost £1250.
When the claim was submitted to Red Sands they reviewed the dogs clinical history, and
declined the claim  as they said the records showed  the dog had pre-existing stomach
problems. And had these  been declared they would have added  an exclusion to Ms Ks
policy, covering the whole of the digestive  tract.  Such  an exclusion was then added  to the
policy, and this was backdated to the date the policy started.
Ms Ks vet has said the dogs current condition is unrelated to his previous stomach
problems. But Red Sands have said this doesnt change their view, as the exclusion would
have covered any problem with the digestive tract, rather than a particular condition. And
theyd declined the claim because the dog had pre-existing stomach problems, which  arent
covered by the policy.
Ms K complained to Red Sands who accepted they hadnt provided enough information
about the procedure for obtaining  pre-authorisation  of a claim. But they werent  prepared  to
change their decision to decline her claim as the policy doesnt cover  pre-existing conditions.
Ms K then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and agreed Red
Sands hadnt  provided enough  information  about the pre-authorisation procedure, and
recommended they pay Ms K £100 compensation. But she didnt think  theyd  done  anything
wrong in declining the claim as it wasnt covered under the policy.
Ms K didnt accept our investigators  opinion and the case came to me for a decision.  
I understand that since our investigator considered Ms Ks complaint sadly her dog has died.
Im very sorry to hear this and she has my sympathies for her loss.
I made  a provisional decision  about  the complaint in March 2019. In it I said:-
Ms Ks complaint has two parts. Shes complained  about Red Sands failure  to provide the
correct information  about obtaining  pre-authorisation of her claim, and about her claim for
the cost of her dogs  surgery being  declined. Ms K has said shes unhappy with her
complaints being  dealt  with together. But as they both relate  to her dogs recent surgery,  I
Ref: DRN71884162think its reasonable for them  being  considered together.
Ill consider the complaint about her attempts to obtain pre-authorisation of her dogs surgery
first.
Ive listened to the telephone calls Ms K, and her vets,  made  to Red Sands to try and obtain
pre-authorisation of her dogs surgery. Ms K was told during one of these calls that her vets
could obtain authorisation  of treatment, through the online pawtal, within one working hour.
Although the advisor does say that the vets would need to be registered to use the pawtal. I
think the advisor gave  the impression that, if they werent registered, all theyd need to do
would be to call Red Sands to register, and then they could apply for online pre-
authorisation. But it wasnt as simple  as this. The vets had difficulty  getting through  to Red
Sands, and before the claim  could be pre-authorised the dogs clinical records had to be
provided. And its certainly  not clear  from the conversation that pre-authorisation could take
a couple of days, when  the vets werent  already registered to use the pawtal.
During the call Ms K was asked when shed  first noticed her dog was having  problems  with
his health. In response she told the advisor  she had memory problems and would have to
check her diary, but it was within the last month.  She was then asked  if shed noticed  any
similar problems  and she said she hadnt.  The dogs clinical records show  hed had stomach
problems in 2015 to 2016. But on this occasion Ms Ks vets had found a bowel obstruction,
and she told the advisor  the dogs stomach  was six times its normal size. Given  the dogs
symptoms at the time of the call, and the question she was asked, I dont think  it was
unreasonable for Ms K to say hed not had similar  problems  before. If shed simply been
asked if he had suffered  from any stomach  problems in the past,  and Ms K had answered
yes, then I think she may have been  told at the outset that the claim might  not be covered.
But this isnt what happened.
When Red Sands provided  their response to Ms Ks complaint they accepted Ms K hadnt
been made aware it could take time for the pawtal system  to be set up, or of her other
options for submitting a claim if the pawtal didnt work. And as Ms K had told Red Sands
her dog was booked in for surgery, the next day, they apologised for the level of service
shed been provided. Ms K was clearly distressed when she spoke  to Red Sands. She was
concerned for her dog and worried about  the cost of the surgery. And shed told Red Sands
if they wouldnt cover the cost of the surgery they she couldnt afford it. So I think Red Sands
should pay Ms K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their failure to
provide clear  information caused her.
Ill now consider Ms Ks complaint about Red Sands decision to decline her claim for the cost
of her dogs  surgery.
In looking at this there  are two issues to be considered  was this a pre-existing condition (in
which case its not covered) and, even if it isnt pre-existing, can Red Sands reject  it relying
on the retrospective exclusion added to the policy?
The schedule refers  Ms K to the Complete Guide  to Your  Policy for details of specific
exclusions and/or  warranties relating to her policy which arent contained  in the schedule.
Section 11 of the of the policy sets out general  exclusions  including, at section 11.1, Any
pre-existing conditions.
The policy is clear that it doesnt cover  pre-existing  conditions, which is very common  in pet
insurance, This is set out in the presumptions and key facts.  So Ms K would have been
Ref: DRN71884163aware of this.
When the claim was submitted Ms Ks vets provided  a copy  of the dogs clinical  history. This
shows that from 2015 to 2016 hed seen the vet for a variety of stomach and intestinal
problems, but no specific diagnosis had been made.
So I need to consider whether the condition was in fact pre-existing. The policy definition of a
pre-existing condition is:
Any condition, symptom or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in any form and at
any time prior to the commencement date.
Ms K has provided a letter  from her vet, dated  19 October 2018, which says her dog:
recently underwent  investigation for delayed gastric emptying. This was due to pyloric
outflow obstruction  (hypertrophic in origin) which was treated surgically. This condition  is not
connected to inflammatory bowel disease and the previous gastrointestinal signs displayed
by him historically. I can find no evidence  in the literature that these two conditions  have any
link, not least  as they affect different parts of the gastrointestinal tract.
So Ms Ks vet is quite  clear in saying that the reason her dog required surgery  was due to an
obstruction, which was quite different  from, and in a different part of the body to any earlier
issues. So Im not persuaded that the condition was pre-existing. And I dont think  its fair for
Red Sands  to refuse the claim on that basis.
When Reds Sands obtained the dogs veterinary records they added a retrospective
exclusion to her policy, in the following terms:
Excludes cover  on all claims with respect to the Digestive System with effect from 31
December 2017.
So I need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Reds  Sands  to add this
exclusion.
To add a retrospective  exclusion for the whole digestive system, Reds  Sands would have to
show it asked clear  questions when Ms K took out the policy; that she failed to take
reasonable care when  answering them; and if she had answered  correctly, it would have
added this exclusion at the time.
Ms K took out the policy online. The policy schedule she was sent asked a fairly  broad
question Have you ever taken to the vet for anything  other  than routine vaccinations. And
if she had Ms K was asked to call them.
Ms K had a duty to take reasonable care when answering Red Sands questions. She didnt
call Reds Sands, and I think she should have done  because  shed taken her dog to the vet
several times. But I still need  to consider what Red Sands would have done had she not
misrepresented the position.
I havent seen  any evidence that had she declared  her dogs past stomach problems, Red
Sands would have  added the exclusion to the policy that was added after she submitted her
claim.
Red Sands  has referred to the policy terms and said that, where  there is a pre-existing
Ref: DRN71884164condition, it reserves the right to add an exclusion  for that condition. But Red Sands has
gone beyond that and added an exclusion  for the whole digestive system.  And I dont think
this is fair and reasonable.
So I dont  think the dogs condition was pre-existing,  or that the retrospective  exclusion
should have been added  to the policy. And I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Red
Sands to decline Ms Ks claim.
So my provision decision was that I upheld Ms Ks complaint.
Since I issued my provisional  decision Ms K has indicated  that she accepts the decision.  
Reds Sands  acknowledged my provisional decision but didnt provide any further comments 
by the deadline Id set. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Red Sands not Ms K have provided  any new information or comments, I see no 
reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint against Red Sands Insurance  Company 
(Europe) Limited and I require them to do the following:-
pay Ms Ks claim for her dogs treatment plus simple interest  at 8% from the date her 
claim was submitted.
pay Ms K £100 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience caused  by the failure to 
provide correct information  about the pre-authorisation of claims.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188416