K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold  a regular premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy alongside a hire purchase  agreement  by British Credit  Trust Holdings Ltd (British 
Credit).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 March 2019,  a copy  extract  of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither British  Credit or Mr G have given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained previously, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against British  Credit 
Trust Holdings Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement to buy a car at a dealership in 2006.  Following this he 
received a phone call from British  Credit and was sold a PPI policy. The policy  wouldve  covered Mr 
Gs loan repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and unemployment  for up 
to 12 months  per claim.
Ref: DRN70063472Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because she didnt think the costs were made  
clear enough.  
British Credit disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Im currently  considering not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
The policy was sold over the phone by a British Credit sales adviser. British Credit had to make it 
clear to Mr G he had a choice in taking the policy and it was separate  from the loan. Mr G says this 
wasnt done. But Mr G hasnt given any specific details  about what was said to make him think  this. 
And British Credit say Mr G wouldve been given  a clear  choice  to accept  or decline the cover during 
the sale.  
British Credit havent  been  able to provide a call recording of the sale so I dont know exactly how the 
policy was presented  to Mr G. But Ive seen  a copy of British Credits  sales call script that it says was 
in place at the time Mr G was sold the policy and I think  its likely the sales adviser followed this as 
Ive seen nothing that suggests this script wasnt used.
The script requires the sales adviser  to say theyre offering  optional insurances for sale.  And the first 
insurance had to be described as optional  Payment Protection insurance. At the end of the PPI sale 
the script requires the sales adviser to ask whether  or not the customer would like to take PPI. 
Given all of this, I think the sales script made it clear the PPI was optional.  And as the salesperson 
had to follow the script,  its more likely  than not the script was followed. So I think its likely Mr G and 
wouldve realised from the call that he had a proper  choice about  taking the PPI.
I can also see the demands  and needs statement sent to Mr G after he agreed to buy PPI also made 
it clear the policy was optional. I say this as it gives two options  to accept  or decline PPI. And I can 
see Mr G has signed under the statement I want to take out Credit Protection Insurance. 
So overall I think  Mr G wouldve known he had a choice in taking the policy and I think the policy was 
put in place because  Mr G agreed to take it during the phone conversation and confirmed his choice 
by signing the demands and needs statement. 
This was an advised sale. What this means is that British  Credit not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr G could make an informed choice about 
buying it. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend the policy that it was suitable  to his 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if British Credit  did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr G for the following  reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of the 
main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made it difficult  to 
make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr G says he was entitled to some sick pay and had savings he could 
use to make his repayments  if he couldnt  work. But a successful  claim on the policy wouldve  
paid out on top of any work benefits and savings  and covered him for potentially longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr G in his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN70063473There was nothing to suggest that the policy  wasnt affordable  to him at the time.  And if he no 
longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
I also need  to consider whether British  Credit gave Mr G information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper  choice about whether  or not he wanted to take the 
policy out. 
I can see from the call script that all the important details and information wouldve  been explained to 
Mr G and the cost information was outlined in the demands and needs statement.  But even if it hadnt 
been for the same  reasons  that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr G has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.  
Which means I dont currently think British  Credit has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But British Credit will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
British Credit got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr G about  that. Because British  Credit  didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, British  Credit has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the British Credit  needs to do
British Credit has to pay back  to Mr G any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. British Credit should also pay back to Mr G any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
British Credit should pay back to Mr G the extra he paid each  month because the commission and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. British Credit should  also pay Mr G 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so British Credit Trust Holdings Ltd does 
not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But British Credit Trust Holdings Ltd does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7006347