K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr L took out 44 instalment loans with Sunny between May 2015 and October 2018. It 
appears that Mr L was unable to fully repay what he had borrowed and there is an 
outstanding balance on the final loan.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt  wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mr L loans 1 to 4. But at the point of loan 5 Mr Ls borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve done  more checks. At the point of loan 6 our Adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldve seen that he was persistently relying on these loans and further lending 
wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  Mr L 
was persistently relying on the credit. It pointed out that Mr L was required to use only a 
small amount of his income towards the loans and his application was subject to checking. 
The business did offer to refund all interest and charges incurred from loan 15 onwards.  
Mr L didnt accept that offer so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN77813382the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr L. It asked Mr L for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ls credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr L loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr L 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
four, I dont think that I need to say more about  them.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 
15 to 44, so I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loans 5 to 14.
At the point of loan 5 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Ls borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr L had taken 5 loans in four months. Taking out this many loans within  such a 
short time frame should  have prompted  Sunny to consider whether this lending  was 
sustainable for Mr L. His pattern of borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short term 
credit and not managing his money  responsibly. Ive taken into account the flexibility  of this 
product. They  are instalment loans with 6 monthly  terms but Mr L was taking out overlapping 
loans and repaying them early, presumably to save on interest, but then Mr L had to borrow  
again. So I think the signs were there that Mr L was struggling and Sunny shouldnt have 
given him any loans after loan 4.
 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ls lending with Sunny to see if there  was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mr L.
Ref: DRN77813383Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
When Mr L took out loan six, hed been  borrowing  almost  continually and wasnt making  
any inroads into the amount that he owed. 
Mr L asked for loan 6 just over 10 days after he had taken out loan 5 for £350.  I think  
this pattern of lending  shouldve alerted Sunny  to the likelihood that Mr L was having  
problems responsibly  managing his money.  
I think that Mr L lost out because Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr L had been borrowing 
from Sunny was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability  to access  
mainstream credit. This kept Mr L in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint about  loans 5 to 14 in addition  to loans 15 to 44.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr L as though they had been  repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr L having  made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund  the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr L. However  if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr L.
E.Record any adverse  information from Mr Ls credit file about  loan 5. The number of 
loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 6 to 44 should be removed from Mr Ls credit  
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN77813384my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7781338