K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Instant Cash Loans  Limited  (trading as Money  Shop) was 
irresponsible when  it lent to her. She asks that it refunds her money.
background
Miss W took out two loans  with Money  Shop  in October 2012.  Our adjudicator  said Money 
Shop shouldnt have offered the second  loan to Miss W. This was because the loan 
repayment of £163  represented  a significant  proportion of Miss Ws monthly  income (of 
£417). This meant there was a significant  risk that Miss W wouldnt be able to meet her 
existing commitments  without borrowing again.  This borrowing wasnt  sustainable.
Our adjudicator said Money Shop should  refund interest and charges on the second  loan,  
with 8% interest, write  off any unpaid interest  and remove any adverse  information about the 
loan from Miss Ws credit  file.
Money Shop agreed. It said Miss Ws loan balance was about £243. It said after applying  the 
refunds recommended  by the adjudicator, Miss W would owe about  £54. Miss W didnt 
agree and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website
Miss W took out two loans  with Money  Shop  on 30 October 2012. Loan  1 required a 
repayment of £62.50  and loan 2 required a repayment of £162.50. Both loans were due on 
9 December 2012  a total of £225.  Miss W told Money Shop her monthly  income was £417.
Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, as was the case  here, I think  less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.  But certain factors might  suggest  that Money 
Shop should  fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
I dont think Money Shop  had any reason to think loan 1 wasnt affordable or that more 
checks were needed.  But when Miss W took out loan 2 the repayments due represented a 
significant proportion  of her income. 
I think, in the circumstances,  it was unlikely Miss W would have been able to make the 
repayment for loan 2 sustainably  that is, without undue  difficulties,  while meeting other 
reasonable commitments and without having  to borrow further.
Ref: DRN74574772I dont think Money Shop  should have offered loan 2 to Miss W. So Money Shop should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;  and
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Miss Ws credit file.
Money Shop sold the balance owed by Miss W to a third party. Its said it intends  to buy 
loan 2 back before applying  the compensation. If this isnt possible, it should:
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest 
and charges on loan 2  including any added by the third party;
pay Miss W any interest and charges shes already paid to the third party on loan 2 plus 
interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement; and
ask the third party to remove any negative information it may have recorded about  loan 2 
from Miss Ws  credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Money  Shop  to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that Miss W is disappointed by the outcome here.  After  applying the 
compensation, its likely she will owe about £54 to Money Shop. The purpose of the 
compensation Ive set out is, as far as possible,  to put Miss W back into the position she 
would have been in if she hadnt been  given loan 2. But Miss W did borrow the money and 
had the benefit of it. I think  its fair that she repays the amount she borrowed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Instant Cash Loans  Limited to take the 
steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7457477