K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have unfairly 
declined her claim made under a legal expenses  insurance policy.
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers. 
background
In 2017 Miss P was convicted  of a driving  related  offence. This resulted in a court issuing  an 
order which required her to attend a 15 day programme which had to be completed by 
5 December 2017. The court later varied  the order to extend  the date for completion  until 
29 November 2018.
In November 2018 Miss P contacted DAS to make  a claim, she wanted  assistance to defend 
herself at court  and had already appointed her own solicitor. DAS made some initial enquires 
and found that Miss P was required  at court in relation to a breach of the court  order.  
DAS said there was no cover for this under the policy and declined the claim. Being unhappy 
with this Miss P complained. She thinks her policy does provide cover  in these 
circumstances. When DAS maintained theyd acted  correctly,  Miss P brought  her complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators  ultimately concluded that DAS had fairly declined  the claim.  So she 
didnt recommend that they needed to do more. As she still disagrees, Miss P has asked for 
an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint and 
wont be asking DAS to take any action. I understand this isnt the outcome Miss P would 
have been hoping for, so Id like to explain why. 
Miss Ps policy says We will defend your legal right if an event leads to your prosecution  for 
an offence connected with the use or driving of a motor vehicle. This is a common term in 
legal expenses insurance and not one Id consider inherently unfair.
Miss P says that the alleged  breach  of court order  follows  directly  on from the driving related 
offence. As such,  she says it is connected with the driving of a motor  vehicle and should be 
covered under the policy. 
Both DAS and Miss P agree that the allegation  she is defending is a breach of a court order,  
not the original  driving offence.  This is supported by a letter  from Miss Ps solicitor  which  
records the allegation against  her as a breach of an order.  
I accept that the court  order only came into existence as a result of the original driving 
matter. But I dont think this means  that the alleged  breach of the order  itself can fairly be 
said to be connected  to the use or driving  of a motor vehicle. The breach relates to Miss Ps 
alleged failure  to complete the required programme. Not anything to do with driving. It is the 
Ref: DRN78004652offence for which Miss P is being prosecuted  (breach of an order) that must be connected, 
and I dont agree that is the case here. 
I understand why Miss P presents this argument, but I dont think the assessment DAS 
made was unreasonable. It follows that there isnt any cover  available under the policy to 
assist Miss P with her legal defence in these circumstances. So I dont think  DAS were 
wrong to decline  the claim for that reason,  or that this was unfair. No policy  can cover every 
conceivable set of circumstances. And I dont think it would be fair for me to direct DAS to 
cover something that isnt included in the policy. 
Ive also considered Miss Ps point that a large insurer such as DAS, should draft their policy 
wording clearly. But I dont agree that the wording is unclear. And whilst its unfortunate 
Miss Ps policy doesnt cover her in these  circumstances; I wont  be asking DAS to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800465