K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mrs G has some issues with her health. She had a British Gas policy  that covered the 
breakdown of kitchen  appliances.
As her fridge was beyond economic repair, British Gas made a contribution of £164.42 
towards a replacement through its supplier. Mrs G paid the balance  of the price.
But she complained  the new fridge was too hard to open.
In a final response letter, British Gas referred  Mrs G to the manufacturer of the new fridge.
our investigators opinion
After Mrs G brought her complaint to us, British Gas offered  to replace the fridge  again.  Our 
investigator recommended that the offer to replace  the fridge was fair and reasonable.
Mrs Gs daughter said an offer of compensation would be a preferable resolution  to this 
case.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs G 
and to British  Gas on 21 November 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I wasnt minded to find that British Gas supplied the fridge or was responsible 
for the quality of the fridge or its fitness  for purpose.
Subject to any further information from Mrs G or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
British Gas hasnt  said anything in response to the provisional  decision.
Mrs Gs daughter disagrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
She accepted  the offer (to replace the fridge). She just could not find a fridge  
with similar  dimensions.  She was also hindered due to ongoing serious  health  
issues with her family which meant that at times  the replacement of the fridge 
was not her priority.  
She did eventually  find a fridge (newly available) and forwarded the details 
but British Gas said that they were unable  to uphold the offer.  She received 
no reasons as to why. 
Ref: DRN74740072At the time that she couldn't find a fridge  she did say she would consider a 
cash settlement. This was supposed to be an offering  so that when the fridge 
does eventually fail due to the work  around (which involves  a tube feeding 
through the seal to break  the suction so that the fridge can be opened), she 
would have some  money towards  a new fridge to ease the cost of a new 
fridge.
The offer that was given was an offer that is totally dependent on replacing 
the fridge now. Mrs G does not have the remaining 70 percent to acquire the 
fridge at this point  in time so it is not really a settlement to her. 
The tube allows air into the fridge. However it means that bacterial mould 
forms in the fridge quite  regularly.  As and when Mrs Gs daughter visits, she 
removes the mould to avoid consequential  health issues. At some  point they 
will replace the fridge as and when Mrs G has funds.  Her daughter  says her 
parents do not work and rely on their pension for an income.
If Mrs G had bought this item from the retailer directly she would have had 
consumer rights for a defective fridge. Indeed  one of the reviews  states  that 
they had the same fridge replaced  for the same reason. It appears that 
because this fridge was part- paid by British Gas, it does not consider itself to 
be the retailer and Mrs G has lost her rights in the process.
The number of reviews demonstrates clearly  that there is an issue  with this 
fridge, yet British Gas refused to even read these  reviews because the case  
had been referred to the ombudsman which means  that the process in itself is 
a problem. If you cannot get into a fridge  it really  is a problem and the quality  
is unsatisfactory. 
The reviews (all taken  directly from publicly available  websites of reputable  
retailers) all state the same problem.  Mrs G does  not have access to British  
Gas's supplier as they also quote  consumer  laws saying that she needs  to go 
back to the company  that accepted the payment as they are considered the 
retailer. Everyone agrees there is a problem but are saying it is someone 
else's problem  and no-one  is willing  to accept responsibility. Instead Mrs G 
has been passed between organisations who were  all part of the process. 
Mrs G paid a fair price for the fridge but the fridge essentially has no warranty  
or rights due to the manner in which it was acquired via an insurance claim 
with British Gas.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
From what  Ive seen, Mrs G had a policy for a year from 19 October 2017. From a letter 
dated 21 May 2018 I see that she made some changes. The policy then covered a gas 
cooker and a fridge.
The policy provided  for repair of the fridge.  Alternatively if the fridge was beyond economic 
repair, the policy provided that British Gas would contribute towards a replacement from its 
approved supplier. If the fridge was less than three  years old, the contribution would be 
100%. If the fridge was three years old or more, the contribution would be 30%.
The HomeCare agreement didnt cover  faults that were already there when the appliance 
was installed.
Ref: DRN74740073British Gas has proceeded on the basis that Mrs Gs fridge was at least  three years old. And 
Mrs G hasnt shown that it was younger  than that.
In June 2018 British Gas decided the fridge was beyond economic repair. So British Gas 
agreed to contribute 30% towards a replacement.  Mrs G paid the other 70%.
Mrs G regards British Gas as the supplier  of the fridge. But British Gas was only responsible 
for making  a 30% contribution towards  a replacement from its approved supplier. So  
notwithstanding its approval of the supplier  I dont  find that British Gas supplied the fridge. 
And I dont  find British Gas responsible for the quality of the fridge or its fitness for purpose.
The new fridge was supplied and installed in July 2018. Within a few days,  Mrs G reported 
that the door seal was too tight.  She said she kept medicine in the fridge but couldnt  open 
the door without  pulling  so hard that she wrenched her shoulder and moved the fridge 
across the floor.
From its work history, I think a British Gas engineer  agreed the door seal was very tight. The 
fridge manufacturer agreed the door seal was tight but said this was to be expected with a 
new fridge.
Mrs G has sent us a lot of reviews  from other  people with similar fridges. But Im not 
persuaded that the stiff seal was enough to make her new fridge  of unsatisfactory quality or 
unfit for purpose.  Even if it was of unsatisfactory  quality or unfit for purpose, Im not minded 
to hold British  Gas responsible for that because it didnt supply the fridge.
Ive thought about whether the policy required British Gas to repair  the new fridge  or  if it 
was beyond economic repair  to contribute 100% towards a replacement. But the reported  
fault with the new fridge was already there when it was installed  in July 2018.  So the policy  
didnt cover that reported fault.
Its well over a year since Mrs G had the new fridge. Her daughter has said she didnt want  
the upheaval of another  new fridge. And British Gas is no longer  offering a replacement.
The current  offer from British Gas is to make another 30% contribution amounting  to 
£164.42. But that is conditional on Mrs G getting rid of the fridge  that was new in July 2018. 
In that case British Gas would also reimburse  any invoice for removal  of the fridge  (typically  
about £25.00 I think).
Mrs Gs daughter says she isnt willing to pay the majority of the cost of a replacement 
fridge. So Mrs G isnt going to accept the current offer from British Gas.
As I dont hold British  Gas responsible  for the quality or fitness for purpose of the fridge  that 
was new in July 2018, I dont find it fair and reasonable  to direct British Gas to pay 
compensation to Mrs G or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN74740074Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7474007