K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs D says Canada  Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg at the time,  mis-sold  
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs D says she didnt ask for the insurance to be added to her account. But I think  Egg 
made it clear  that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Egg has given me examples of the pages from the online application it thinks Mrs D would 
have completed,  and they show she would have been asked to choose if she wanted  the 
policy and select either yes or no options on screen. Egg has said Mrs D wouldnt have  
been able to proceed  with her application  unless she chose one of these  options.  I cant be 
sure exactly  what  she saw and filled in, but, based on what Ive seen and been told and 
without any evidence to the contrary,  I think its more likely than not Mrs D would have seen 
these options  when applying for the credit card and that the PPI was added  as a result  of her 
selecting yes.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But as Ive mentioned above,  she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs D about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs D has said - including  what she has said about  not 
needing the policy as she was in good health and was entitled  to sick pay. Initially  she told 
Ref: DRN72851932us she had no other means  for making  her repayments but more recently she has told us 
she would  have had savings. But this policy would provide a monthly benefit of 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card for up to 12 months  which would be in addition to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any sick pay she would receive  which I understand was quite 
limited. And it would also provide cover for the same  length of time if she was to have lost 
her job, leaving her free to use any savings she may have had on other essential living 
expenses. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs D any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7285193