K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Unum Limited didnt treat two periods of absence  as a linked claim 
under a group income protection  policy he had the benefit of.
background
Mr T has the benefit of an income  protection policy (the policy) through  his employer, which  
can pay out a portion  of his income  after hed been  off work sick for 26 weeks  (the deferred  
period). 
Mr T was absent from work for five months  starting in early 2018 (the first period of 
absence). He says he was suffering with significant anxiety after being  told that his cancer 
may have  reoccurred, and which required further  investigation.
A couple of months later, Mr T was absent from work again  after being hospitalised for 
feeling unwell,  and shortly thereafter  he underwent  significant surgery to remove a tumour. 
He remained of work until the spring of 2019  (the second period of absence).
Although a claim was made on the policy in June 2018 (relating to the first period of 
absence), as Mr T had returned back to work before the end of the deferred  period, there  
was no benefit  for Unum  to pay at that time.  
Ultimately, Unum did agree to pay the benefit under the policy  to cover part of the second 
period of absence; from early March to the end of April 2019.  Thats  because  it deemed  the 
deferred period  started from early September 2019, when Mr T was hospitalised. 
Mr T doesnt think thats fair. He thinks the first and second periods of absence  should be 
linked together  and that the first period of absence should be treated as part of the deferred 
period for the second period of absence.  As such,  he says Unum shouldve  started paying 
the benefit under the policy much  earlier than it did. 
Unum disagrees. It concluded  that the evidence  doesnt support  that Mr T was incapacitated 
during the first period  of absence and so that absence shouldnt be linked to the second 
period of absence. 
Unhappy, Mr T complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr T 
disagrees so his complaint has now been  passed  to me to look at everything  afresh  and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before  I explain why, I want to assure Mr T that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the health  issues hes suffered; I can see 
that he has been through a very difficult time over the past several  years  and this, 
undoubtedly, wouldve had an enormous  impact  on him and his family. But for the reasons 
below, I dont think Unum unreasonably decided not to link the first and second absences  
from work.  I know  he will be disappointed, but hopefully, hell understand the reasons for my 
decision when I explain why. 
Ref: DRN78234672Unum has a duty to handle complaints  promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. When  making a claim,  its for Mr T to demonstrate that he meets the 
definition of incapacity throughout the entirety  of the deferred period.
The policy pays out a proportion of a members  income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if theyre  unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation  and are not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation  means: the trade,  profession or general role that the member  
was actively undertaking for (the policyholder) immediately prior to incapacity
The policy also says that if a member has been absent from work,  ill, Unum will treat any 
further absence  as an extension of the original claim if the member is no longer 
incapacitated but becomes ill again  within a year, and meets  the definition of incapacity  no 
matter if the second  period of incapacity is for the same or different  cause.  It refers  to this as 
a linked claim.
So the focus is on whether Mr T was unable to perform  the role he was doing  before he was 
absent from work because of his illness immediately before the first period of absence , when 
he was carrying out the role of Analyst  (Unum doesnt dispute that he was incapacitated 
from early September  2018 to the end of April 2019). And to link the second period of 
absence to the first, its for Mr T to show that he was incapacitated  during the first period of 
absence. 
Im not a medical  expert  so Ive relied on the available  evidence  when considering  whether 
Unum unfairly declined to link the first and second  period of absences  together.
When initially making a claim under the policy, in June 2018, Mr T completed  a claim form. 
On it he said that he was constantly  anxious  and worried whilst he was being investigated for 
a possible cancer  recurrence; that he had difficulty concentrating and low motivation. 
I can understand why Mr T mightve been very distressed and anxious  about being told that 
he may have cancer again, particularly as hed been given the all clear several weeks 
before that - and given that hed had treatment to remove two tumours  on two separate 
occasions previously.  
However, theres very little reference to him feeling this way in the medical records  during 
the first period  of absence, and importantly the impact any anxiety had on him. He says 
himself that he was able to garden, watch TV, go for walks and read during this time. Of 
course, theres nothing  wrong with him doing  any of that and I can understand how these 
activities couldve helped him manage  any anxiety he was feeling. But it does suggest  that 
he was able to function on some  level.  Further, it appears that he returned to work  without  
any documented changed in his health,  and at a time when there hadnt been a prognosis of 
the underlying  condition  that was being investigated.
So, although  its possible  that his GP failed to record how he was feeling around that time, 
based on what the available evidence, I dont  Unum unfairly concluded that Mr T wasnt 
incapacitated throughout the first period  of absence. 
Ref: DRN78234673When making this finding, Ive taken into account Mr Ts occupational health  report dated  
July 2018, shortly after returning to work  after the first period  of absence.  It refers  to Mr T 
being affected  psychologically, his mood being  somewhat low and counselling was 
suggested. However, it doesnt  go into any further detail about how this impacted him day to 
day whilst  he was signed off work  by his GP or what had changed to enable him to feel well 
enough to return  back to work at the time that he did. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7823467