K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he has now paid in far more in premiums towards his Phoenix  Life 
Limited insurance policy than the projected  pay-out.
background
Mr H took out the policy in 2009 from Phoenix Lifes sister company without advice. For a 
monthly premium of £11 it promised  a pay-out on death of £690 if he died at least two years 
after the start of the policy.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint could be upheld.
He noted that the terms and conditions said: Depending on how long you live, the total 
premiums paid may be greater than the cash sum payable  on death.
So he was satisfied  that Phoenix  Life clearly  explained the policy  was one that would pay a 
fixed sum, and that the pay-out sum might  be less than hed paid into the plan. So unlike a 
savings account  or some  investments,  there  was no guarantee the amount paid out would 
be as much as hed paid in. As its turned out, Mr H lived past the point at which  his total 
premiums paid were greater than the death  benefit.  But before then it would have paid out 
more than hed paid in.
Mr H did not agree, saying he was now 86, in poor health, and if he now cancelled  the plan 
he would  lose all the money hed paid in. He said he hadnt noticed  the small print and felt 
elderly customers were being unfairly  treated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Like all insurance policies,  Guaranteed Over 50s Plans operate on the basis that some 
people will pay more in than they or their dependents will receive back  while others  will end 
up paying less than is paid out. This is the only basis on which any insurance company can 
run its business.
In this case if Mr H had died two years after taking out the policy he would have paid in 
around £240 but the plan would  have  paid out £690.  However,  the longer he lived the more 
likely it was that he would end up paying  more  than the ultimate pay-out.
If Mr H had received advice before taking out this plan I would need  to consider whether the 
advisor fully explained that he would end up paying  more than would be paid out in only 
three years time, and that after this point he would be losing  money. But as he took this 
policy out without  advice I can only consider whether Phoenix Lifes information was clear 
and unambiguous. For the reasons  explained  by the adjudicator  I am satisfied that it was.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN74920052Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7492005