K821x#15complaint
S, a limited  company complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus, caused unnecessary delays in allocating a number of payments  to its account. 
S is concerned with the service  it has received  from Cashplus when dealing with its 
complaint.
Mr G, a director of S, is representing them in their complaint.
background
Four payments were  expected to be credited to Ss Cashplus account, one in 
November 2017,  one in January 2018 and two in July 2018. When these  had not been 
received Mr G contacted  Cashplus  to have the issue resolved.
Following a conversation  with Cashplus,  Mr G was informed they could not trace  the 
transactions without  proof of payment, so he sent them the relevant evidence.  However, 
Cashplus rejected  these documents as it required the evidence in a specific format.  Mr G 
says the original documents sent were as they requested and made a complaint. 
He says during  the telephone calls the staff members provided  a poor service and were 
unprofessional. He says the call was terminated  by the employee  despite his best efforts to 
have the situation resolved.
Cashplus investigated the complaint and say the payments were not sent using  the correct  
reference which would assign them to Ss account. Cashplus confirmed the proof  of payment 
Mr G provided  was not in an acceptable  format and he was told to resend the information  in 
the correct format. 
Cashplus listened to the calls Mr G refers to in his complaint and says he was not willing  to 
listen to the manager or allow them to answer his concerns. Therefore it found the 
termination of the call and the conduct  of their employees acceptable. 
Cashplus says it did credit the two payments sent in July 2018 to Ss account. However, due 
to a block in their system,  the two remaining  payments  would be returned to the originator so 
they could be sent again quoting the correct  details.
Cashplus says it was not responsible for the delays and therefore wouldnt uphold  Ss 
complaint.
An investigator looked into this and thought Cashplus had done  something wrong. He 
thought Cashplus  had delayed returning  the funds to the originating bank.  He also thought 
Cashplus provided S misleading  information about when the payments were going  to be 
sent back to the originating bank. Due to this he thought S should  be compensated £250 for 
the trouble caused by the delays and misleading information provided.
Mr G was unhappy Cashplus were  yet to issue proof they had sent the payments back. He 
felt Cashplus had further delayed the process unnecessarily.
Cashplus provided evidence on 12 March 2019  showing the payments had been returned  to 
the originator on 19 December 2018. Due to this, the investigator thought S should be given 
Ref: DRN76394182interest on the money it hadnt been able to use. He asked Cashplus to add 8% annual 
simple interest to the payments  during  this period.
Mr G remained  unhappy with the delays caused  by Cashplus as he was concerned where 
the money was. So the matter has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Cashplus needs to be sure the funds theyve received are destined  for the correct 
customer. This is achieved when  the sender enters  the recipients  Cashplus account number 
and sort code into the reference field of the payment. On this occasion it wasnt and 
Cashplus required proof of payment. As the instructions were  not followed by the sender,  
Cashplus cant be held responsible for this. And I find it reasonable to ask for proof of 
payment prior to releasing the funds, as this ensures  the money is being paid to the correct 
customer.
The format  in which Cashplus accepts this proof  of payment is for the business to decide, 
however, I appreciate Mr Gs point.  He felt he had supplied sufficient information in his initial  
submission based  on what was asked for. As Cashplus had only specified a remittance 
advice and not the format  in which it was required I can understand his frustrations. 
Cashplus could have  been more specific in its response, but I dont  think this caused  
significant delay  as it was easily rectified and Mr G did supply the information required. This 
meant two of the four payments were  successfully paid into Ss account.
Its the remaining  two payments  which  have been delayed considerably by Cashplus and I 
think these delays were  avoidable.  I think Cashplus should have sent these payments back  
to the originating bank much sooner. Having looked at its website  I can see it has specified 
how it deals with unidentified payments. It says:
Once the payment  has been received  we then transfer the funds into your GBP Cashplus 
Business Account using your UK Sort Code and Account Number  that the payer  will provide 
in the Description/Reference Details field. Without this, we have no way of identifying  
a payment as being yours, so please  make  sure you remind  the payer  to include these 
details, otherwise the money will be returned.
Please note: We may hold the payment for four weeks before returning the money to the 
Payer. The total time it takes for the funds  to be returned to the payer will depend on the 
originating bank and the country its from.
The payments in question were received  by Cashplus on 16 November 2017 and 
16 January 2018.  Following the policy outlined by Cashplus this would mean the payments 
should have been returned  to the originating bank four weeks following the date it had 
received them. This would have allowed the payer to correct  the mistake and get the 
payment back to S using the correct  information.  
However, Cashplus responded  to Mr Gs complaint  by letter on the 6 September 2018 
saying it would only then arrange for the payments to be returned.  Cashplus provided 
another response saying the payments were  raised  on 8 November 2018. This was over 
two months from the date of the final response  letter and almost a year after the funds were 
Ref: DRN76394183paid to the account. But in fact, I see from their own remittance advices, their account was 
only debited and the funds returned  on 19 December  2018.
Taking into consideration the policy outlined on Cashplus  website I think  it should have 
returned the payments sooner. Because of this I think Cashplus should pay interest  on the 
payments for the time S hasnt had access to the money.
I have also considered the way in which Mr G was treated when he called Cashplus to query  
the transactions. Cashplus were unable to retrieve the specific  telephone recordings Mr G 
has referred to in his complaint. I have however listened to numerous other telephone calls 
Mr G has made to Cashplus, during which he queries his unidentified payments. Having 
listened to these I find Mr G was spoken  to in a professional and polite manner. The staff 
members assisted Mr G as best they could and fully explained why they were unable  to 
locate the payments without proof  of them. 
Understandably Mr G would have been frustrated  when  calling  Cashplus  to complain 
regarding the delay in Ss payments. But I have found from listening to the calls,  Mr G was 
also professional  and polite when spoken to. Cashplus have outlined  in their call notes Mr G 
wouldnt listen to the manager and this was confirmed again  when it reviewed  the telephone 
recordings. But Mr G says it was the employee who was unreasonable.  So it is likely his 
complaint call was a breakdown in communication between both parties.  This has led to the 
call escalating to a point  where both parties  were not effectively  communicating  with one 
another. However, once Mr G had supplied the documents in the format  requested,  two of 
the payments  were  credited  to Ss account. As I have said, I am unable to listen to the call 
specified in Mr Gs complaint but I dont believe this would have any material  impact  on my 
decision. Based on what  I have  heard  Im not convinced Mr G was mistreated by staff when 
making his complaint to Cashplus. 
I have considered if S should be awarded  compensation for the trouble it has been caused  
by the delay in its payments. I accept the original error was not caused by Cashplus but by 
the sender not entering the correct information. But Mr G is the sole director of S and has 
had to direct  a considerable amount of resources in chasing the payments, even after 
Cashplus were aware  of the issue. This has no doubt taken time and effort which  could have 
been placed in the general running of the business.  I think  this diversion could have been 
avoided had Cashplus followed  its own policy and returned the funds a lot sooner.
Considering these points, I think its fair to award S compensation  for the trouble caused.  A 
payment of £250  is fair in reflecting these  points. 
Ref: DRN76394184my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint  and direct  
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  to carry out the following actions:
Pay S 8% annual simple interest  on the two payments (£306 on 16 November 2017 
and £203 on 16 January  2018)  from four weeks after the payments had been 
received by Cashplus to the date they returned  the money to the originating bank.
Pay S £250 for its trouble  in resolving the issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on Ss 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639418