K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out the PPI in 2001 at the same  time as she applied for the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs L says that she was led to believe that she had to agree to the PPI in order for the credit 
card to be agreed.
Tesco has said that Mrs L applied  for the card and PPI using a postal application form. 
Looking at a copy  of the form,  it does indeed look like the type of form that would have been 
part of a leaflet  that would  probably be picked up in a store.  Mrs L has completed this form 
herself and sent it back to Tesco  for processing.
There was a separate section on the form for PPI. Mrs L has ticked  a box in that section to 
request the policy. She didnt have to tick it if she didnt  want  it. Mrs L says that, because  the 
form contains the wording  We strongly  recommend you take out this cover, she believed 
she had to have  it or at the very least found the wording confusing. But this was a generic 
application form, not specifically addressed to Mrs L. I therefore  think  it is unlikely that she 
would have thought the wording constituted a personalised recommendation for her. And the 
word recommend itself suggests that the policy is something that you should  think about 
having, rather than something you had to have.
Mrs L says that she also spoke to an adviser  from Tesco over the phone  and was led to 
believe that she had to take out the PPI in order for the credit card to be agreed. Tesco  has 
no record of any phone  call taking place,  which  is not surprising  given how long ago the sale 
took place.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs L has said. But on balance, I am unable  to 
conclude that she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the policy. From the wording and 
layout of the form, I consider that Mrs L would  have known (or ought  reasonably  to have 
known) that she didnt  have to select PPI. Also from what we know  of Tescos phone  sales,  
the optional nature of the policy would most likely have been made clear.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ls recollection  of 
events has faded  somewhat.  Overall I consider that it is more likely than not that Mrs L 
Ref: DRN76669952probably decided  to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
Tesco didnt  advise  Mrs L to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  Mrs L with enough information for her to be able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
I think Mrs L must have known something  about the policy (that it covered her repayments if 
she was unable to work  due to accident  or illness) because I dont think  shed have  decided  
to take it out without knowing anything  at all about it.
Mrs L has told us that her employer would have given her sick pay of six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay. Tesco has said that Mrs L has been inconsistent  in what  
shes said as she initially couldnt  remember  what sick pay she would have received. 
Regardless of this, the policy  would have paid out in addition to any sick pay, and potentially 
for longer than Mrs L would have received full pay for.
Mrs L has also told us that she had savings of around £8,000  at the time. Tesco says it isnt 
convinced that Mrs L had that level of savings. It has highlighted that Mrs L requested  a 
balance transfer  of £3,000  when she took out the card.  It also says that in her early 
transactions she was only making  the minimum repayments, therefore paying substantial 
interest. Mrs L hasnt been able to provide any evidence of her savings, but I wouldnt 
necessarily expect her to be able to provide  proof from 2001. However, regardless of the 
level of Mrs Ls savings,  having the policy would  have allowed her to retain these  or use 
them to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. Overall it seems to 
me that Mrs L had a need for the policy and could  have  benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Tesco could have provided  more  information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs L wasnt affected by any of those  things. As I 
consider that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I am not persuaded that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L. But 
Tesco has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs L about that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  pay this now if it hasnt 
already done so. I dont award  any further  compensation. 
Ref: DRN76669953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666995