K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.
background
Miss G took out nine loans with Cashfloat  between November 2015 and July 2017.
Loan Date  
borrowedAmount Date 
repaidNumber of 
repayments
1 9.11.15 £200 24.12.15 2
2 28.12.15 £200 25.2.16 2
3 14.3.16 £200 26.5.16 2
4 27.5.16 £285 30.9.16 4
5 3.10.16 £200 24.11.16 2
6 26.11.16 £200 24.2.17 3
7 26.2.17 £200 27.4.17 2
8 11.5.17 £200 27.7.17 3
9 28.7.17 £300 Outstanding 3
Miss G repaid some of the loans  early but there is a balance which  remains outstanding on 
loan nine. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Miss Gs complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, he didnt think that it was unfair  of Cashfloat to agree loans one to three. But he 
did think that it was unreasonable  for Cashfloat to have provided  loans  four to nine inclusive. 
As such,  he recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest and charges that Miss G paid on 
loans four to nine with interest on the refund. And he said it should remove  all entries  about  
those loans from Miss Gs credit file.
Cashfloat didnt  agree with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN72882232the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
loans one to three
Before agreeing to provide each of these loans Cashfloat asked Miss G for details of her 
monthly income and expenditure.  It also carried out some credit  checks and, whilst I havent 
seen the results of these,  its records show that Miss G had no defaults recorded,  nor any 
insolvency arrangements.  She did have other  borrowing commitments  but there  was nothing 
to suggest to Cashfloat that she was experiencing any financial difficulties or that the 
proposed loans werent affordable to her. 
Each of the first three loans given to Miss G by Cashfloat was for £200  and was repayable 
by two monthly instalments on her paydays.  With the exception  of gaps of a few days, the 
loans followed one another  closely.
The amounts due to be repaid to the loans wouldve appeared modest to Cashfloat 
compared to the income and other information provided to it by Miss G. As such, I think that 
the checks carried out by Cashfloat were proportionate and so I dont think it was wrong  to 
give these three loans to Miss G.
loans four to nine
Ref: DRN72882233By the time Miss G applied for loan four shed been borrowing from Cashfloat throughout 
almost all of the previous  six months.  Her application for loan four was made immediately 
after repayment of the previous loan. It was for an increased amount and, in contrast to the 
previous loans, it was repayable over four months.  Each of the subsequent loans was 
provided within days of the previous loan being  repaid.   
Whilst the information Miss G provided to Cashfloat  within her loan applications appeared 
still to indicate  that the loan repayments  were  affordable to her, I think  that the pattern of 
borrowing that had been established  by this stage shouldve prompted Cashfloat to question 
whether she was having difficulty in managing her money. 
The fact that Miss G was able to repay  loans  one to eight in full and on time is not 
necessarily, in itself,  a confirmation of financial health. Regular and prompt re-borrowing of 
loans is often an indication that repayment  of the preceding  loan has left a hole in the 
borrowers finances that needs to be plugged  by further borrowing.
In all of these circumstances  I think that Cashfloat should, by this time, have been concerned 
that Miss G wouldnt be able to repay the loans  sustainably, and was most  likely borrowing 
again to cover the gap in her finances  caused by repaying her previous loans.
In total Miss G was borrowing consistently  from Cashfloat for almost two years and I dont 
consider this to be consistent with the intended  use of this type of loan in providing support 
to meet  short-term gaps  in cashflow. Cashfloat  has stated in its submission to us that its 
approach to repeat lending is to ensure that there are not more  than three back-to-back 
loans (ie where  the repeat loan follows immediately after the previous loan). So it is clear  
that its own approach  recognises that repeated lending over an extended  period  is unlikely  
to be sustainable  for a borrower. And I dont think that it was fair and reasonable to lend in 
this way given  Miss Gs circumstances. .
I dont think that Cashfloat  shouldve agreed to lend to Miss G after loan three.
putting things right
Cashfloat shouldnt  have given Miss G any of loans four to nine, so its not right that she 
should have had to pay interest,  fees or charges in relation to these, or have them affect her 
credit file in a negative  way. 
I think the overall number  of loans from Cashfloat  on Miss Gs credit file, in itself, constitutes 
negative information   which has arisen through Cashfloat  agreeing  to lend to her when it 
shouldnt have. So instead of directing Cashfloat just to remove adverse payment 
information in relation  to these loans, Im going to direct them  to remove  the loans entirely.  I 
acknowledge that Cashfloat has expressed  some concerns about this but I think  its the 
fairest thing  to do in the circumstances. 
So to put things right Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Miss G on loans four to nine;
add simple interest at 8% per annum to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
Ref: DRN72882234if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan nine before 
paying any remaining  balance  to Miss G;
remove loans four to nine inclusive from Miss Gs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take tax off this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and direct  Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288223