K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him and his late wife, four endowment policies; 
three held with Provident Mutual and one held with Royal London.  
background
Mr W originally  brought a complaint to our service that his endowment policies (held  jointly 
with his late wife) hadnt paid out on her death  in 2009. We found that complaint had been 
made outside of the time limits that apply,  as he would have been  aware  of cause for 
complaint a short time later, when the policies didnt  pay out. 
During the investigation of the complaint, Mr W also complained that some of the 
endowment policies had been  mis-sold.  We asked  Santander to look into his complaint and 
it agreed it couldnt be sure the three  policies  held with Provident Mutual were suitable,  but it 
couldnt carry out any calculations as there was no longer sufficient information held about 
the policies. It didnt look into the complaint about  the sale of the Royal London  policy.  
Our investigator was satisfied Santander  had looked  into the complaint fairly. He also 
concluded there was no loss in relation to the Royal London policy  as it had paid out the full 
sum assured in 2009, when Mrs W passed  away. Mr W asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. 
As it wasnt clear why Mr W thought  the policies had been mis-sold, we asked  him to clarify. 
Mr W said the policies didnt do what they were supposed to and repay the mortgage. As 
that matter had already been  looked  into and excluded by us (as it was out of time) our 
investigator said that isnt a matter we would look into again. Mr W again  asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W hasnt been clear  about why he believes the endowment policies he took out were mis-
sold. We have attempted  to clarify  this with him. To the extent that he complains the policies 
didnt do what they needed to when  his wife passed  away in 2009, the investigator is right,  
this is a matter we have  already considered and excluded under a separate  complaint 
reference. Our rules  set out: 
DISP 3.3.4A  (5) says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without  considering  its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the 
effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman  Service
DISP 3.3.4B  gives examples of complaints that would otherwise seriously impair our 
effective operation:
Ref: DRN72795042(3) where the subject  matter of the complaint has previously been  considered  or 
excluded under the Financial Ombudsman  Service (unless material new evidence 
which the Ombudsman considers likely  to affect the outcome has subsequently 
become available to the complainant)
Mr W hasnt provided  any material  new evidence, and so this isnt a matter we would look 
into again. 
However, if Mr Ws complaint is that the policy wouldnt have paid off the mortgage had it run 
to term then I agree with the investigators  findings.  
Santander has already upheld the sale of three of the policies complained about. However, 
in order for it to carry out calculations to establish if a financial loss has been suffered, 
details of the policies are required, such as the surrender value, the sum assured, the 
premium etc. Its my understanding the three  Provident policies were surrendered in 1992 
(or there are no details of the policies at all) and there are no details now available. So 
Santander cannot carry out any calculation.  I find nothing  unusual about that, given how long 
ago that happened and businesses data retention obligations. 
Santander didnt  investigate the sale of the Royal London endowment  policy. This is despite 
us providing evidence that Mr W had complained about the sale of it via this office. So Im 
disappointed it didnt  comply with its DISP 1 obligations to investigate the complaint. 
Nevertheless it now falls to me to consider whether or not the policy  was mis-sold. 
The policy was taken  out in 1998  for £5,000. I understand  it was invested 50% into the With 
Profits fund and 50% into the Managed fund. At the time, it would appear Mr W and his late 
wife had had about eight  endowment policies previous. So I dont think  the recommendation 
to have another endowment policy for a small amount,  would necessarily have been wrong 
advice. 
In the event, I understand the policy paid out the full sum assured when Mrs W passed  away  
in 2009 and so it is highly  unlikely any financial  loss was suffered as a result of having the 
policy. I understand Mr W doesnt agree the policy paid out  thats a matter  hell need  to 
take up with Royal London as the policy provider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279504