K822xcomplaint
C, a limited company,  complains about the time National Westminster Bank Plc took to 
change the signatory to its bank account  causing it inconvenience and financial loss.
background 
The sole signatory on the company bank account  passed away on 25 November 2017.  His 
son, an existing  director, applied to be put onto the signing  mandate on 18 December 2017. 
This was not completed until 24 January 2018. NatWest accepts that the branch involved did 
not send a document to its processing team. This was not discovered until January 2018 and 
caused a delay. It paid C £150  and before the complaint  was referred to this service  offered 
a further £50. It noted that C had claimed  that it lost £20,000 of business income. But 
NatWest said it had not seen evidence to support that.
The investigator recommended  NatWest pay C £250 in total and it agreed to do so. She said 
that:
-NatWest said that the completed forms had been sent to its bereavement services 
team. These would then need  to be passed  to the team  that processed mandate 
changes.
-Taking into account the holiday  period she thought  that the time for this to get to the 
team  by 29 December  2017 was not unreasonable.
-There were  then delays because the branch had failed to send a supporting 
document. The process was not completed until 24 January 2018.
-Shed  looked  at the sales and purchase statements for C for that period and for the 
same period a year earlier. C now said that these  showed  a loss of business of at 
least £10,000.
-She did not think that this was supported by the evidence. C had limited access to 
the bank account for part of December 2017 and most of January 2018. But the 
figures for January 2018 were significantly higher  than December  2017.  
-There was always going  to be some impact  on C of changing the mandate  and a 
need to complete paperwork. NatWest did not have  records  of more  than four calls 
that the director of C made about  the delay.
-She could only make  an award  to C, not to the director  personally.  She considered 
that total compensation of £250 reflected the inconvenience.
C did not agree. It said that the director called  a minimum of 15 times and that this had to be 
during business  hours. The trading for C is thousands of pounds down. And C has been 
asked for evidence that is not feasible. A payment of £250 is a disgrace.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read carefully  what C says on the complaint form to this service. It says that the director 
was told that the time for its account being limited while the mandate was changed  was 
going to be about two weeks.  And that at the time he was the only employee. 
Ive looked at the bank  statements for C. Regular  payments and credits to the account were  
still accepted during  the period. There did not seem  to be any significant fall off in credit  
turnover to the account. But C was not able to make online  payments or say use a debit 
Ref: DRN74943192card. From what I can see it made a number of such payments on 18 December 2017 just 
before the mandate application and these started  again after 26 January 2018.
C expected some account limitation and reasonably made attempts to mitigate this in 
December 2017.  Its own sales and purchase  report show  lower  figures  for December  2017  
than January 2018. Thats even  though,  as the investigator says, the bank account was 
limited for most of January 2018.
Im afraid Im not persuaded on balance that it was the delay in the change in the mandate 
that was the cause of any reduction. And if anything Id have  expected to see more of an 
impact in January  2018 when the unexpected  delays occurred. So I dont have a reasonable 
basis to make an award for financial loss.
There is no dispute that NatWest handled this process poorly. The accepted error by its 
branch staff is entirely consistent with what the director  says - that there was a lack of clarity 
of what was needed.
I appreciate the very difficult personal  circumstances for the director who had lost his father. 
As the investigators  explained I can only look here at the effect of what  happened on the 
company. I find on balance it most likely  that as time went  on he did make increasing  efforts  
on behalf of C to find what was happening  and to mitigate the impact for C. And that the 
inconvenience to C became greater  and as the director says it had to deal with suppliers 
who wanted to be paid.
I am applying my own judgement to decide what is fair here and I take into account our 
published guidelines. I dont think that the current award recommended of £250 is sufficient 
given the length of time this issue was outstanding  and the efforts I accept were taken by C 
to follow  this up. I have  all the evidence  I need  to make a decision  about this. And so I am 
going to increase this compensation  to a total of £400  thats  a further  £250  compared to 
what NatWest has already paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to pay C a total of £400 in compensation which means a further  £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7494319