K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBC)  handling of his
claim in 2013.
background
The background to this complaint is lengthy  and spans almost  a decade. As it is well-known
to both parties, I wont repeat it at length here and will instead focus on the reasons for
reaching my findings.
In short,  Mr T purchased a new-build  property in 2011 which was covered by NHBCs
Buildmark policy. Mr T began to notice issues with the property soon after he purchased  it
and was corresponding with the builder  of the property in regard  to these. Mr T also
contacted NHBC about the issues he was having  with his property.
As Mr T contacted NHBC within  the first two years of the Buildmark policy,  the claims were
considered under section 2 (years 0-2) of the policy. Section 2 of the policy  sets out the
builders obligations  if theres a defect with the property.  In order  to assist with this, NHBC
can issue a resolution  report which will outline  the repairs required under the policy   and
provide a deadline for that.
NHBC issued  resolution reports for Mr Ts property in October 2012, January  2013 and
March 2013. But ultimately the builder didnt rectify all the issues  highlighted in the reports  so
NHBC stepped in to take over the works  around  March 2013. I have addressed the issues
Mr T raised  about the issues  before NHBC took over the works  separately so wont  be
considering them as part of this complaint.
Mr T complains that NHBC didnt provide him with alternative accommodation during the
works it carried  out in 2013. He says that alternative accommodation was provided in 2016
when further works  were  completed and that the works in 2013  had been  more extensive
than those. So he believes alternative accommodation should have been provided  in 2013.
Mr T is also concerned that NHBC  exposed both him and his parents  who were staying
with him to assist in overseeing the building works - to health and safety issues  during the
works, including harmful  dust and fumes from the oil-based paint the builders were using.
NHBC has said that it doesnt believe alternative  accommodation was required for the issues
it took over in 2013 and that it isnt responsible  for the actions of the builder before it took
over the works from them.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2020  letting  both parties know  that I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part. In it, I said:
financial  losses
Mr T has calculated the compensation for alternative  accommodation he believes he was
entitled to, based on the figures he was given in relation to his claim in 2016. But the costs
NHBC paid in 2016 were  in order for Mr T to obtain his own alternative accommodation  so
they were an actual cost that Mr T was going  to incur.
In 2013, Mr T wasnt provided with alternative  accommodation and his belongings werent
placed in storage. Mr T also hasnt made  any suggestion that he stayed anywhere other than
Ref: DRN78183642his own property so there  are no actual costs or financial losses for NHBC to reimburse. And
I dont think it would  be fair to ask NHBC to reimburse costs that Mr T never incurred in the
way that he has suggested.
However, I have considered the actual issue Mr T has raised about whether NHBC should
have placed Mr T into alternative  accommodation. And if I think  it should  have  done,  then
whether it should  compensate Mr T for any distress and inconvenience  caused by its failure
to do this.
alternative accommodation and storage costs
As with all insurance policies, the Buildmark  policy provided by NHBC isnt intended to cover
every eventuality. So I have considered the wording of the policy,  which states:
We will pay you any reasonable costs that you incur by prior agreement with us for removal,
storage and appropriate alternative accommodation if it is necessary for anyone normally
living in your Home to move out so that work  can be done.
I have reviewed a significant  amount of correspondence and I havent found  any evidence
that Mr T let NHBC know that he required  alternative  accommodation  or storage  for his
possessions when it took on liability for this claim.  Mr T has raised  the point that this may
have been something he agreed in person or over the telephone  and that may be the
case. But where I dont  have  evidence  either  way, I must decide  on the balance of
probabilities what  I think  is most  likely.
Having considered Mr Ts comments,  I dont think its likely that he raised the issue  of
alternative accommodation with NHBC when it took on the works to this property. I say this
because if he had, and NHBC  hadnt responded to the issue, then I would have expected
Mr T to chase  this in writing. So, on balance,  Im not satisfied that Mr T raised this with
NHBC in order  to obtain its prior agreement.
I have also considered whether, if he had, I think its likely NHBC would have thought  it
necessary to place  him into alternative  accommodation.
There were initially a significant number of issues in need of remedial works when NHBC
carried out its first resolution  report  and I can see that given the scope of those works,
there may have been a significant  amount  of disruption. But I am only considering  the period
from when NHBC  took on the work in 2013.
When NHBC took on the work, there  were  only eight issues outstanding. And two further
issues were added shortly after. Works of this kind will always  be disruptive and cause
inconvenience and we wouldnt usually ask NHBC to consider alternative  accommodation
costs for that reason  alone. We would generally consider that alternative accommodation
would be necessary where there  is no functioning kitchen or bathroom.
I can see from the list of items  that needed to be corrected,  that there would have been
disruption to Mr Ts home and that he would have  had to move his belongings within  the
home. But Mr T was the sole permanent  occupant  of a 4-bedroom home so I dont think it
would have been immediately obvious to NHBC that Mr T would have required alternative
accommodation or storage for his belongings for most of the works. And based on the
estimates of how long the works that NHBC were responsible would take, it seems that
these were estimated  to only take a matter  of days.
Ref: DRN78183643But I can see that some works  took place in the bathroom and kitchen so I have considered
whether NHBC should have taken further action  in relation to those.  The works to Mr Ts
bathroom that NHBC took over responsibility  for appear to have been very minor  with the
March 2013 resolution reports  (which  outlines the issues NHBC was going to take on)
stating that it would entail draining  down and providing a new sealing compound to the
radiator valves. Given the apparently minor nature  of the works  outstanding at this stage, I
wouldnt have expected NHBC to provide alternative accommodation for this.
I have also considered the works  due to be carried out in the kitchen area. The resolution
report suggests that the only work that was required was for the joint between the worktop
and splashback to be resealed. The photographs in the report  show this area to be fairly
small and unlikely to cause Mr T to need to remove any items  from his kitchen or be unable
to use the facilities.  So I dont think this item would have caused  NHBC to think it needed  to
provide alternative  accommodation for Mr T.
While on the face of it, the schedule of works doesnt seem  extensive or that it would require
alternative accommodation, Mr T has told us that he has health concerns that meant  the
dust and fumes in the property while the works were being carried  out were particularly
unpleasant for him and caused  irritation to his breathing  and I have no reason to doubt
Mr Ts comments in relation to this. So given his health concerns, had Mr T raised  the issue
of alternative accommodation,  I would have  expected NHBC to consider either alternative
accommodation or any other means it considered would assist  Mr T in the circumstances.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr T raised this with NHBC in 2013 so I dont think  NHBC
was given the opportunity to consider this or address it at the time. And I dont think it would
be fair and reasonable to hold NHBC responsible retrospectively for something it wasnt
made aware  of at the time of the 2013  claim.
The terms of the policy are clear that it will pay any reasonable  costs  that have been
incurred by prior agreement. In this complaint, I dont think there were any costs incurred or
any prior agreement so I cant reasonably say that NHBC should reimburse any sums for
this. And I havent seen  any evidence that the works  for these ten items were extensive
enough to require Mr T to be offered alternative  accommodation under  usual  circumstances.
So, as I cant see that Mr T raised his health  concerns with NHBC at the time, I dont think
NHBC made  a mistake in not offering him alternative accommodation. But I would invite
Mr T to provide any further evidence he has of conversations  or emails that took place  at the
time of the claim if he did raise this issue with NHBC.
health and safety concerns
Mr T has said that NHBC breached health and safety regulations  by not providing  alternative
accommodation  and that this is a criminal offence. But it isnt my role to judge  whether
NHBC has committed a criminal offence or breached health and safety  regulations. My role
is to consider what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained above, I have considered Mr Ts concerns for his health as a result of him
remaining in the property for the duration of the works.  But if Mr T wants to pursue NHBC or
its contractors for breaches  of health and safety  regulations then I would suggest he takes
legal advice on this matter as this service  wouldnt be able to confirm whether NHBC has
breached any health  and safety regulations. However, I have considered whether there is
any evidence that the works carried out in Mr Ts home made it unsafe or caused  risk to his
health.
Ref: DRN78183644Mr T has commented  on the oil paints used during the renovations. I am not a medical
expert and my role isnt to consider what,  in theory,  could have caused any particular illness.
I havent been provided with any independent  evidence showing that any of the paints used
in the property were  harmful or that these  were applied in a way not compatible  with the
manufacturers instructions.
So while I can understand Mr Ts concerns about  the potential impact  these paints could
have, I simply  do not have any evidence that NHBCs  contractors  have caused  Mr T or his
family any harm or any independent evidence from a medical practitioner that the health
issues suffered by Mr Ts family could be linked to the paints used by NHBCs contractors.
I appreciate that Mr T has concerns  about  keeping his familys medical reports confidential
and he says that no doctor would be able to provide conclusive evidence of this. But without
any evidence, Im unable  to conclude that NHBC or its contractors have made  a mistake or
done anything  wrong in relation to this point.
cleaning costs
Mr T has said that he isnt happy  that his property wasnt cleaned after the works were
carried out in 2013. NHBC says it would have expected the contractors to clean up after
themselves. Mr T would like £200 towards  the costs  of cleaning his property for each set of
works that was carried out.
While NHBC has said that it would have  expected  its contractors to clean  up after
themselves, I do find Mr Ts comments to be plausible  that the works caused  dust that
would have spread throughout the house. As with the terms above, I would generally have
expected Mr T to raise  this issue with NHBC prior to having the house cleaned. But I also
appreciate that Mr T wouldnt have  wanted to live in an unclean  home  following  the building
works and may have  taken steps to ensure that his home was liveable before  being able to
speak to NHBC about this, which isnt unreasonable. And as NHBCs contractors should
have cleaned after they left, I think it would be reasonable for NHBC to consider these costs
 but only for the works carried  out after they had taken over responsibility  for the repairs.
But Mr T hasnt  provided any evidence of the cleaning  costs he incurred. So if Mr T can
provide us with evidence  that he incurred costs as a result of having to clean his home  for
example an invoice or receipt, an extract from his bank statement showing when he paid a
cleaner or anything  else that shows that he incurred these costs,  then I will consider  these
before issuing my final decision.
delays and loss of income
Mr T has explained  that he lost several days of annual leave due to the way this claim was
handled and that he repeatedly had to have  his parents travel to the property  to oversee the
building works  while  he was at work  he says this was a 400-mile round-trip for them.
While it is apparent that this issue did cause Mr T to use a lot of his annual leave, I also have
to consider that NHBC didnt build the property itself and is only responsible for putting the
issues right.  And with any insurance claim, we would expect there to be some disruption to
the policyholder  due to the nature of there being an insured  event which led to the claim.  So
we wouldnt generally  ask a business  to pay for the time Mr T spent having the issues fixed.
But I have considered whether any of the actions Mr T had to take were as the direct  result
of a mistake made by NHBC.
Having considered that the works were only estimated to take days, I think NHBCs
Ref: DRN78183645contractors should  have been  able to complete the works fairly quickly. But it seems they
werent completed until June 2013.  This appears to have been  as a result  of the contractor
being unavailable. And it seems  that some of the issues that NHBC corrected  needed to be
redone as there were  issues with the quality  of the repairs. And I can see that this meant  that 
Mr T would have needed to take additional time off work or arrange for someone to be at the 
property. While some of this was necessary in order for the repairs to take place, I do think
that the repairs took longer than they should  have and that it is likely that Mr T would  have
needed to take additional time off work  to oversee this.
As a service,  we wouldnt generally consider reimbursing  the cost to Mr T of taking annual
leave or the costs of him arranging to have his parents travel to his home to oversee the
building works. But I have considered the distress  and inconvenience this would have
caused Mr T and, like the investigator, I think NHBC should pay Mr T £300 compensation for
those delays.
Mr T arranged for his parents to be at the property to oversee the building works  and I can
understand why he did this given that there were tradesmen in his home. But there  is no
evidence that these works required  a project  manager or someone to oversee them while
they were actually taking  place   so I cant see that it was necessary for Mr Ts parents to
have been at the property  for the time the works were  carried out. So I think this is a decision
that Mr T made to satisfy himself that his property was secure, and the works were
proceeding as he expected. But that isnt a cost I would expect NHBC to reimburse.
NHBC replied  to say it accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr T didnt comment  on the 
content of my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new comments or evidence  for me to consider,  I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Having considered Mr Ts complaint, I can understand why he is unhappy with the works that
have been carried  out at his property. And it is clear to me that these works have caused  a 
great deal of disruption to his life and are not what  he expected, having bought a new 
property. But I can only consider the parts that NHBC were directly responsible for.
I said I would consider the cleaning costs incurred by Mr T if he was able to produce 
evidence of these,  but he hasnt done this. Should  Mr T provide an invoice for this that meets  
NHBCs requirements then I would expect it to consider those costs   but only if he is able to 
provide this evidence within a reasonable timeframe  as I wouldnt expect NHBC to keep this 
claim open indefinitely.  But as Ive seen no evidence of those costs, I cant ask NHBC to 
make a payment  in respect of those at this time.
So I think NHBC should put things right by paying Mr T £300  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to him by the delays to the completion of the works  in 2013.
Ref: DRN78183646my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. National House-Building Council 
should pay Mr T a total of £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7818364