K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that 2gether Insurance Limited provided a poor service  when she 
sought roadside assistance under her Breakdown Cover policy.  Mrs Hs partner Mr K is 
representing Mrs H in her complaint.
background
Mrs H and Mr K returned from holiday and collected their car from the airport  car park.  After  
driving for a few miles,  Mr K said they decided to stay at a hotel for the evening and call 
2gether Insurance for assistance  the following morning. He said the engine was stuttering,  
there was a strong smell  of petrol and smoke was coming  from the exhaust.
Mr K called for assistance the next day. Eventually  he paid for a recovery  agent to recover 
him and Mrs H to their home address, which was about 90 miles away from where theyd 
called 2gether  that morning. 
Mr K complained to 2gether. In summary he was unhappy with the length of time it took for 
the recovery agent to attend. He said the agent didnt properly diagnose the problem. His 
chosen garage was able to carry out what was a straight forward repair at little expense.  
Mr K wanted  2gether to arrange recovery to their home address, but he had to do this at his 
own cost. He wanted 2gether to reimburse him for these costs  and to compensate  him and 
Mrs H for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr K didnt receive a reply from 2gether so he asked us to look at his complaint. 2gether told 
our investigator it didnt receive Mr Ks complaint. It said it had dealt with the matter  in a fair 
way and in line with the policy. 
The investigator thought that overall 2gether had acted in line with the policy.  Although  Mr K 
and Mrs H had to wait for four hours for the agent  to arrive, she didnt think on balance this 
warranted a compensation award.  It was at the discretion of 2gether  to authorise either a 
recovery home or recovery to a suitable garage. As Mr K and Mrs H were recovered to a 
garage, she thought it had been  reasonable. 
Mr K didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy with 2gether says that it will decide on the best possible way of offering 
assistance - depending on individual circumstances.  They key wording under the policy  says 
the following:
If Your Vehicle or Caravan (where applicable)  has Broken Down within  the United 
Kingdom, or involved in an Accident,  we will instruct a Recovery  Operator to either;
1. Attend  the scene of the Breakdown and where possible carry out a Temporary  
Repair, and/or,
Ref: DRN767420022. Recover the Vehicle to a suitable garage straight away. The garage maybe chosen 
by You however must  be within a 25 mile radius of the site of the Breakdown  as 
measured by Us.
If We are unable to carry out a Temporary Repair to the Vehicle We will decide 
based upon whichever is geographically  closest to the site of Breakdown, as 
measured by Us, one of the following;
1. To recover the Vehicle, and any Caravan or Trailer where  applicable, the driver 
and up to 8 passengers to the nearest suitable garage able to effect  a repair
2. Your intended  onward  destination
3. Your Home
In the event that Your Vehicle is recovered  to a suitable garage  and repairs  cannot 
be carried out on the same calendar  day, then You will be offered one of the 
following at Our discretion;
1. The cost of alternative  road or rail travel for the driver and up to 8 passengers to 
one destination  within the Territorial Limits  of this Policy. This will also include a 
return journey for one person to collect the Vehicle upon completion of repairs.
2. The cost of one nights accommodation, excluding  food and drink,  for the driver 
and up to 8 passengers. This is limited to a maximum of £40 per person or £200 for 
all persons.
3. The cost of a suitable hire car for one day up to a maximum of £50
Important: The above options are at Our discretion and subject to our approval.  Each  
of the available options is on a reimbursement basis only and will not be paid for in 
advance by Us. Receipts  and/or  invoices can be sent to us at the address or email  
on page 1 of this document.
I understand Mr K and Mrs H called  2gether for assistance just after 10am. Mr K had to 
chase 2gether  for an update. He was told the recovery agent was running late from a 
previous job and stuck  in traffic. Mr K said 2gother had indicated a wait time of 90 minutes, 
but in reality they had to wait four hours. I appreciate the wait time was longer than 
estimated and I think 2gether should have updated Mr K. However,  Mr K and Mrs H were 
fortunately waiting  for recovery at a hotel  they were  familiar with and where theyd stayed the 
night before. So they were in a safe place. And I think its reasonable to expect a degree of 
inconvenience when  requiring recovery. So I dont  think the length  of time it took for the 
agent to reach them   although longer than estimated -warrants a compensation award.  
Mr K believes 2gether may have wrongly sent the recovery agent to their home address 90 
miles away and this caused the delay. He said the agent left a voicemail message on their 
landline. But I dont  think this is enough  to show me that this is what  happened. The 
business notes  show the address provided  to the recovery  agent  was the hotel where  Mr K 
and Mrs H were. Its possible that the agent  was given Mrs Hs landline number rather  than 
her mobile number in error.
The recovery agent said he wasnt able to repair the car. So 2gether offered for Mrs Hs car 
to be recovered  to the agents garage. 
Ref: DRN76742003Mr K feels  the agent failed  to properly diagnose  the problem with the car. After  recovery to 
the garage, Mr K said the agent told him it would need to order  further parts to repair  the car 
and it was likely to be costly. Mr K decided he wanted to be recovered to their home 
address. However,  2gether explained that this would be treated as a second  call out for the 
same issue.  This meant that if Mr K and Mrs H wanted to be recovered home, they would 
need to arrange this at their own cost. The recovery agent gave Mr K a price  for doing this, 
which 2gether negotiated  a reduction  on Mr K and Mrs Hs behalf. 
Mr K has provided an invoice for the repairs which his chosen  garage carried  out to the car. 
He says the car has ran smoothly ever since. 
I can understand why Mr K is unhappy  with the garages diagnosis as to what  repairs were 
needed to the car once it was recovered  there.  But 2gethers policy says it isnt responsible 
for the cost of any parts to repair the car. Its responsible for providing  roadside assistance 
as the activity described under the policy. It says it excludes cover for the following:
A garage or other  place of repair undertaking work on Your Vehicle will be acting as 
an agent on Your behalf and as such We bear no responsibility or liability for any 
advice, work  or action  undertaken, or given,  by them.
Mr K has provided information from Companies House about the company status of the 
recovery agent. I dont  think this information makes  a difference  to his complaint. He 
received an invoice from a registered company that operates as a recovery  agent and 
carries out repairs. It was able to recover their car to its depot  and assess the car and make 
a diagnosis. Mr K said he and Mrs H were aware of the option  to leave their car there for the 
repairs to be carried out and the choice  of overnight accommodation or onward travel 
reimbursement. But I appreciate Mr K didnt agree with the diagnosis  and so the garage 
didnt carry out any repairs  to their car. He wanted his chosen garage to look at their car. 
However I cant say that this means  2gether didnt  act in line with the policy. 
I realise Mr K and Mrs H will be disappointed  with my decision. But on balance  I think 
2gether acted  reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7674200