K820x#14complaint
Miss W is unhappy  ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) has declined her claim on a travel 
insurance policy.
background
Miss W purchased flights and accommodation as part of a package holiday deal. She was 
due to fly out of Gatwick  airport on 21 December 2018. However, due to drones being  
spotted too close to the runway,  Miss Ws flight  was cancelled. And the whole trip was 
abandoned. 
To cover the cost of cancelling the holiday.  Miss W submitted a claim on her travel insurance  
policy. 
ERV declined the claim. It said the reason for the flight delay wasnt  covered under the 
policy. 
Unhappy with this, Miss W referred  her complaint to this service.  The investigator  didnt  
uphold the complaint as she felt the business  had assessed the claim fairly.
Miss W disagreed so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I know  this will be disappointing to Miss W, so Ill explain why. 
ERV has a responsibility to handle claims  promptly  and fairly, and it shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. So, Ive looked  carefully at the cancellation terms to see if cover is provided in 
these circumstances.  
I can see that Miss Ws policy  covers claims for abandonment  of the trip following a delay in 
the flight taking  off - section 1 explains that the insurer will pay for travel and accommodation 
that isnt used. However, the delay mustve  been caused by one of the following: 
a direct result of strike, industrial action, adverse weather conditions,  failure of air 
traffic control  systems, or mechanical breakdown of aircraft...
Miss Ws flight was delayed  was due to drones flying too close  to the airport  runway  not as 
a result of anything listed above. Therefore,  the reason for cancellation is not covered by her 
policy. 
I was sorry to read Miss W also experienced severe discomfort in her legs during the delay 
at the airport. However, this isnt something  covered under this policy.  
In summary,  I can understand why Miss W was unhappy that her flight her was cancelled  
and she couldnt  reach her destination.  But just because the flight  was cancelled,  it doesnt 
automatically follow that her policy provides cover for the losses  she incurred as a result. 
Ref: DRN72189792Im satisfied ERV has applied the policy  terms fairly. And I agree with the conclusion  that the 
flight delay wasnt caused by any reasons covered by this policy. As such,  I dont think the 
business has been unfair in declining Miss Ws claim. 
Although it didnt cover the cost of the whole trip, I am pleased  to see Miss W was able to 
recover the cost of her flights from the tour operator.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7218979