K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy alongside a home improver loan.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2003. Mr D 
applied for the loan and PPI over the phone.
The policy covered Mr D for accident, sickness and unemployment. It cost £11.71  per 
month. And if Mr D had made a successful claim, it would have paid his monthly loan 
repayments of just under £60 for up to 12 months if he lost his job, or until he returned to 
work (or, if earlier,  until the loan was repaid) if hed been off sick.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Northern Bank disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and Ill explain why.
I dont think Northern Bank gave Mr D clear enough  information about the policy, particularly 
about the PPIs  cost and benefit.
Northern Bank has confirmed Mr D took out the loan and PPI over the phone and he would 
then have been sent the loan agreement in the post to sign and return. Its been able to give 
me a copy  of the signed credit agreement  that Mr D signed. But this didnt set out the cost of 
the PPI premiums.
Northern Bank says that its normal sales process  at the time was for its adviser to separately  
price the loan and the PPI for Mr D over the phone. But it hasnt provided a call script to 
show what would have  been said. And theres no recording of the call. So I cant  safely say 
its more likely this process  wouldve been followed in Mr Ds case.
Northern Bank has given me samples of several documents  that have been in use for sales 
of PPI with loans in the past. And I can see these quotations set out the monthly cost of the 
PPI policy. But Northern  Bank has also said the PPI and loan were  agreed to over the phone  
before Mr D was sent the loan agreement in the post. So I think its unlikely that Mr D saw 
any quotation document before he agreed  to take PPI, given that the sale took place over 
the phone. So I dont  think I can reasonably rely on the sample quotations  given to show     
Mr D was told about the cost of the policy.
After considering everything provided  by Northern  Bank, Im not satisfied, on balance,  that I 
can safely say it gave  Mr D clear  enough information about  the cost of the PPI. Ive taken 
into account what Northern Bank  has said about Mr Ds circumstances, and the potential  
Ref: DRN78193622benefits of the policy.  But Im not convinced, given how much the policy  cost compared with 
the potential monthly  benefit, that Mr D would have  thought the policy  good value for money. 
So Im not convinced hed have chosen  to take out the policy if clearer  information had been  
given.
what the business should  do to put things right
Northern Bank should put Mr D in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Northern Bank should:
Pay Mr D the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is and 8% a year .
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern  
Bank must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Northern Bank Limited should put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7819362