K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Aviva  Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim against  his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ls wife - whos insured on Mr Ls policy  was driving when a stolen  car hit her. Aviva 
settled the claim for the damage  to the car but Mr L had to pay his excess of £200. Aviva 
tried to recover its outlay - what it had paid to settle  the claim - from the insurer  of the stolen 
car (the other insurer).
Mr L wasn't happy with the manner in which Aviva  handled matters and complained. Aviva 
acknowledged that it hadn't handled  the claim as well as it might.  So it offered Mr L £375 to 
compensate him for that. But Mr L didnt think that went far enough and brought  his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didn't think Aviva had dealt with Mr L fairly  so he said it should increase its 
offer of compensation to £500 and reimburse his £200 excess.  Mr L didnt agree and 
appealed to an ombudsman. Before the complaint came to me Aviva paid Mr L the £500 
compensation our investigator had recommended. But it refused to reimburse Mr Ls excess 
because it hadn't recovered its outlay. It also told us that - as it had no prospect of 
recovering its outlay - it had closed its claim file.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it.  
handling of the claim
Mr L has no complaints about  the manner in which Aviva dealt with the repairs to the car 
damaged in the accident. But hes clearly been  frustrated  that, because  of an incident where 
his wife was totally  blameless hes had to pay his excess, the claim has been recorded  as a 
fault claim and thats affected his premiums going forward. I can see that on a number of 
occasions Mr Ls commented that it doesn't  seem right that an incident of that nature is 
having such a stark  effect on him. 
I think some  of Mr Ls understandable frustration could have been avoided if Aviva  had done 
more at the outset  to manage Mr Ls expectations  about what was likely to happen following 
his claim.
It might help if I explain that the term fault when referring to an insurance claim may be 
somewhat misleading.  In an insurance  context fault doesn't necessarily mean that the 
policyholder or named driver has done anything  wrong. Instead insurers use the term to 
describe a situation where they haven't been able to recover  their outlay from another  
source. And thats  the situation here.  That is, because the other  car was stolen and the thief 
hasn't been identified, the other insurer isn't responsible to reimburse what Aviva  has paid 
out to settle the claim. And as Aviva  has no one to recover its outlay from the claim will 
remain as a fault  claim  on Mr Ls insurance  history.
Ref: DRN70044172Initially Aviva  did try to recover its outlay from the other insurer. And thats  reasonable in the 
circumstances. That's because, if it transpired  that the driver of the car was identified then 
its possible that Aviva might have been  able to recover its outlay from the other insurer. 
Thats because the other insurer could in turn have sought to recover its outlay from the 
driver who caused the accident. But as the thief was never  identified  that seemed unlikely to 
happen in this case. But I haven't  seen evidence that Aviva  ever explained this to Mr L. Had 
it done so at the outset it could have reduced  some of the sense of injustice Mr L feels.
Im aware that matters were complicated when the other insurer  sent Mr L an assignment  & 
agreement (A&A) form. That appeared to indicate  that the other insurer was ready  to 
reimburse Mr L for his losses as long as he was happy for the other insurer to recover  any 
sums directly from the driver of the other car. But the form contained  a number of errors so 
Mr L retuned it via Avivas  solicitors. At that point things seemed to take a turn for the worse  
and despite Mr L chasing the matter things didn't ever really progress. It seems that the 
other insurer again issued an incomplete and incorrect A&A form via Avivas  solicitors, which 
Mr L again returned, but otherwise Aviva  didn't  make any further  headway.
I should say that Aviva  wasn't responsible for completing the A&A form, the other insurer 
was. But I would have  expected Avivas  solicitors to at least check  its accuracy  before  
forwarding it to Mr L. It also would have  been helpful if it had explained to Mr L the forms 
purpose. And that it was possible  that, even if Mr L had signed it - as the thief wasn't  
identified - it was still possible the other insurer wouldn't settle the claim. But I havent  seen  
any evidence it did so.
After Avivas solicitors returned  the inaccurate  A&A form for a second  time, the other  insurer 
didn't provide a third form. Although it's not clear  why this happened  it seems most likely 
thats because  the thief who drove  the other  car remained  unidentified. And, if that's the 
case, then the other insurer had no prospect of recovering any outlay, so wouldn't have been 
prepared to settle Avivas  outlay for the same reason. 
Similarly, Aviva couldn't issue  proceedings against  the unidentified thief. And in those 
circumstances the other  insurer wasn't  responsible for the claim. So Aviva couldn't  have 
taken any further  action to recover its outlay and close the claim. And unless and until it had 
recovered its outlay  the claim would remain as a fault claim on Mr Ls insurance history. 
Given that a stolen car was involved in the incident  and the thief wasn't known,  that was 
always a likely prospect.  So, as I've said above,  I think it would have helped if Aviva or its 
solicitors had explained that to Mr L at the outset. In other words it should  have told him at 
an early stage that there was always a possibility that this would remain as a fault claim 
against his policy.
That said I note Aviva has acknowledged a number of areas  where it could have handled the 
claim better. And its paid Mr L £500  compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience because  of that. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr Ls excess
Mr Ls policy says that in the event of a claim he will have  to pay a £200 excess. So as Mr L 
made a claim and Aviva repaired  the car it charged  him an excess. Excesses usually  apply 
to all claims regardless of whether or not the policyholder is to blame.  There  might be 
situations where insurers choose not to charge an excess but this is usually a discretionary 
decision and not something that their policies oblige them  to do. So, in this case even though 
Ref: DRN70044173Mrs L was totally blameless for the incident, as Mr L had claimed against his policy  it was 
appropriate for him to pay his excess. 
Mr Ls policy included an uninsured driver promise  (the promise)  which  says that his excess  
would be refunded if the other driver involved in a claim isn't insured. But for that promise  to 
apply the policy requires the uninsured driver to be identified. That wasn't the case here 
which means the promise doesn't apply. So Aviva  was acting within the terms of its policy  in 
charging the excess. Had it been  able to recover  its outlay form the other insurer it would 
also have asked for Mr Ls excess to be refunded. But as thats not possible its reasonable 
that Aviva  didn't  refund Mr Ls excess.
Mr Ls premiums
Mr L isn't happy that his premiums have  been  affected by the fault claim on his insurance 
history. As I've explained above  insurers will categorise any claim where they haven't been  
able to recover their outlay as a fault claim, regardless of whether the policyholder or named 
driver were in anyway  to blame for the claim.  So the fact Mrs L was entirely blameless for 
the incident doesn't mean that Aviva  has acted unfairly in categorising  this claim as a fault 
claim. Although, as I've said above,  I think it could have done more to manage Mr Ls 
expectations about that.
Its also not usual  for insurers to consider  policyholders and drivers who have recent fault 
claims on their insurance history as being a higher risk than drivers without such  claims. 
Thats the case regardless that the driver might not have been  to blame for the incident 
leading to the claim. And insurers generally reflect that increased  risk in the premiums they 
charge. So I don't find it unusual that Mr Ls premium increased even though  Mrs L was in 
no way to blame for the accident. But I can understand that Mr L might not find that fair.
I can see there's been some confusion about whether or not Mr L would have been due a 
premium refund if the claim had changed from fault to non-fault. Its usual for insurers to 
recalculate a premium if a claim changes  from fault to non-fault.  That is, had Aviva 
recovered its outlay  I would have expected it to change the status of the claim to non-fault 
and for it (or the broker which acted  as agents  for it) to issue  Mr L a refund if one was due. 
But as Aviva has closed  its file, unless the thief is caught theres  no real prospect of that 
happening, and as such no refund will be due.
conclusion
I think Aviva  certainly could have made the claim  journey far smoother for Mr L. But I think  
the £500 compensation its already paid to him is reasonable in the circumstances to 
address the impact of its poor service. And I think it was reasonable that it charged Mr L an 
excess. So Im not going to instruct it to take any further action.
developments
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr L did. He said that no-one had explained 
that an appeal  to an ombudsman could result  in the investigators recommended redress 
being reduced. He said that Aviva  hadn't told him that it had closed its claim file. And that in 
itself could be a new point of complaint. He said that if Aviva had told him it was going to 
close its file he wouldnt have complained to us as this removed the prospect of him 
recovering his excess. He wanted to know when and why it had closed its file. He added  that 
Avivas solicitors made little progress  and didnt provide meaningful  updates.
Ref: DRN70044174my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to depart 
from my provisional decision.
Mr L said that no-one had told him that an appeal  to an ombudsman could result in the 
investigators recommendation being  reduced. But I've noted that our investigator  sent him 
our factsheet  titled what happens now an ombudsman  is making  a final decision? . And that 
explains that I would carry out my own independent  review of the evidence; would make up 
my own mind about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances;  and that I could reach 
a different conclusion to out investigator. Thats what  happened  in this case.  And that is the 
reason why I sent a provisional decision inviting comments on it from both Mr L and Aviva.
Mr L is unhappy that Aviva didnt  inform him that it had closed its claim file. I should point out 
that its Avivas solicitors whove closed  their claim file as they dont think  they have any 
prospect of recovering Avivas outlay  from another source. Aviva hasnt told us if it intends to 
take any further action on the claim itself and unless  the thief is court  I dont think  it has any 
real prospect  of recovering its outlay.  Mr Ls said that Avivas failure to tell him that it had 
closed its claim  file could  in itself be a further  point of complaint. That is for Mr L to decide if 
its something he wishes to do. But that wasn't  something I was looking at as part of this 
complaint. And it isnt something weve investigated  so I dont intend to comment further on it 
here. Save to say that while I don't know the exact  date on which  Avivas  solicitors closed 
their claim file it seems this happened  at some point  earlier this year after our investigator  
had issued his assessment  of Mr Ls complaint.
I understand that Mr L is unhappy with Avivas  solicitors  lack of progress. As I commented  in 
my provisional decision I think that Aviva  and its solicitors could have made  Mr Ls claim 
journey far smoother.  But I felt that the compensation it had already paid to him was enough 
to address his distress  and inconvenience  arising from its handling of the claim. And Mr Ls 
comments on my provisional decision havent  persuaded  me that I should  amend that 
conclusion. So Im not going to instruct Aviva to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I remain  satisfied that the 
compensation Aviva has already paid is reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7004417