K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained that Eldon  Insurance  Services Limited  cancelled  her car insurance  
policy in error. She says shes  incorrectly being  pursued for a balance  premium. 
Eldon Insurance Services Limited is the broker that administers  Miss Rs policy on behalf of 
the underwriter.
background
Miss R bought a car insurance policy  through  the broker, Eldon  in April 2018. She changed 
her car several times and in September 2018  - on the fifth occasion - Eldon told Miss R she 
wouldnt be able to continue with her policy. This was because it said the underwriter 
wouldnt accept the number of vehicle changes. Eldon said Miss Rs policy  would have to be 
cancelled. Miss R said shed call back the next day. 
When Miss R called back, Eldon allowed her to change the car details under her policy and it 
continued. Eldon accepts  this was an error on its part. 
In December 2018 Miss R missed  a Direct Debit  payment and Eldon issued a seven day 
cancellation notice.  Miss R called Eldon and it agreed to a repayment  plan.  However, Eldon 
went on to cancel Miss Rs policy in error seven days  after it issued its cancellation notice.
Eldon asked the underwriter if it would agree to reinstate the policy,  but it refused. Miss R 
complained to Eldon. 
Eldon upheld Miss Rs complaint. On cancellation,  Miss R owed a balance £786.51. To 
compensate Miss R for its mistake, Eldon reduced  the amount she owed to £405.26. It 
removed its cancellation  fee, mid term adjustment fees and policy  arrangement fee.
Our investigator thought Eldon had done  enough to put things right. 
Miss R didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
When things go wrong,  we look at what a business did to put things right.  Eldon accepts that 
it incorrectly cancelled Miss Rs policy. But on cancellation, the only amount Miss R was 
asked to pay was the balance  of the yearly  premium. This is something Miss R was always 
expected to pay for the cover shed received. And Eldon offered  Miss R to repay  this under a 
payment plan, which I think is reasonable. 
So I think Eldon  Insurance  made  mistakes. But I think it dealt with Miss Rs complaint in a 
fair and reasonable way. This means  I think Miss R correctly owes  the reduced balance  of 
£405.26. 
Ref: DRN74377542my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before insert 26 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7437754