K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Symmons  De Burgh (SdB) failed to provide him with the investment 
monitoring service that it had agreed. As a result he says it failed to inform  him that regular 
contributions being  made to his personal  pension were being  placed into a cash deposit  fund 
rather than invested  in line with the remainder of his pension.
background
Mr V is a long standing customer of SdB. In 2000  hed received advice from the firm relating 
to the investment of a bond. And in 2007  he received further advice relating to the 
investment of a personal pension. Mr V isnt complaining about  the investment advice that 
he received.
As a result of the advice  Mr V took out a personal  pension with a company I will call S. He 
transferred some other  pension investments into the pension provided by S and received 
advice from SdB about  the initial investment of his pension. Mr V also agreed to take an 
additional service  from SdB at that time that is called its Fund  Monitoring Service.  I will 
discuss what that service provides in more detail later in this decision.
At the time Mr V first opened his pension with S, SdB had concerns  over the likelihood  of 
investment values falling.  So for a period of time Mr V was advised to hold his investments in 
the cash deposit fund. But as time went on SdB provided alternative  advice to Mr V and his 
pension savings were  invested in a range of different funds that SdB considered  were 
appropriate for his risk profile.
But the instructions  Mr V gave to S didnt alter the way in which new pension  contributions  
were invested. These remained  in the cash deposit fund until SdB advised  Mr V to adopt a 
new set of investments.  SdB says that it has suggested these changes  on 39 separate  
occasions since Mr V started  his pension in 2007.  But these changes  have  not been 
regularly spaced,  and sometimes a lengthy period  of time elapsed between  changes.  And for 
the period of time between  changes  Mr Vs regular contributions werent attracting any 
investment returns.
Mr Vs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He agreed with SdB that it 
was Mr Vs responsibility to determine how his pension savings were  invested. So he didnt 
think SdB was responsible for the new contributions  being placed into a cash  deposit fund. 
He didnt recommend  that the complaint be upheld.
Mr V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN72703512It seems  clear  to me that Mr V, and SdB,  wouldnt think it sensible for new pension 
contributions to have  been placed  into a cash deposit fund over the majority of the past 
13 years.  And I have  noted that the complaint Mr V has made  doesnt  relate  to the 
investment advice hes received over the years. So I dont need to deal here with the 
investment performance  of Mr Vs pension savings. It is obvious that it has been  a mistake 
for the new contributions to be placed into the cash deposit fund. What I need  to decide is 
whether SdB has caused that mistake  to happen, or whether it should have identified  the 
problem and told Mr V about  it.
I think that to decide this complaint I need  to look at the services that SdB agreed  to provide 
to Mr V. Given  the time that has passed I have no way of knowing how these services were 
described to Mr V in the initial meetings in 2007. But I do have a copy of the agreement that 
he signed, and SdB has provided us with a detailed  explanation of how its Fund  Monitoring 
Service operates.
When Mr V was first advised on the pension investments by SdB in 2007, it assessed his 
attitude to risk as being Balanced.  SdB has told us that it designs portfolios of investments, 
that can be accessed through the pension product provided by S, that match overall  risk 
profiles. And from time to time, based  on its monitoring of the financial markets, it will make  
changes to those  suggested portfolios and communicate them  to its clients.  And I think  that 
explanation aligns with the information  that is provided by the agreement Mr V signed in 
2007.
But what  is important here is to understand that SdBs monitoring was looking at the 
performance of the underlying funds  and their combination into a risk appropriate portfolio.  
Its monitoring didnt look at the holdings of individual subscribers to its service. And 
individuals were  entirely free to decide  whether  or not to implement any of the proposed  
portfolio changes that SdB suggested.  The recommendations  SdB made were therefore by 
definition generic and provided  to a range of customers  who held similar attitudes to risk. So 
I cannot agree with Mr V that the fund monitoring service should  have identified  that his 
regular contributions had been  placed into the cash deposit fund.
Mr V has told us that SdB had provided him with guidance, and initial training on the 
completion of the forms he needed  to complete when he was changing the investments 
within his portfolio. As before  I dont know what advice and guidance Mr V was given at the 
time. I do note however  that the forms Mr V has used over the years  have changed.  And 
I have also seen some of the confirmation letters that Mr V has received from the pension  
provider that clearly show that his investment choice for future  regular contributions would be 
the cash deposit fund. I simply  havent  seen anything that persuades  me that SdB gave Mr V 
explicit instructions that this is how he should make his instructions to the provider.
The fund monitoring service that SdB was providing to Mr V covered both his pension  
investments and a bond that he held with the same  provider as his pension. The terms of the 
agreement suggested  that the monitoring would take place on a daily basis. When  Mr V was 
questioning the performance of his investments SdB gave him some information from its 
analysis. But it told Mr V that the information  it held only related to his bond since that was 
easier to assess each week given the lack of any contributions  or withdrawals.
Ref: DRN72703513Given his agreement with SdB, Mr V has questioned  whether this information  suggests SdB 
wasnt acting in accordance with its agreement  with him. But SdB has told us that this 
monitoring is entirely separate from the fund monitoring service that it provides. It has 
chosen to sample  a small number of its investors  actual  portfolios to improve its analysis of 
the markets. But that analysis  is entirely for internal  purposes and isnt used to provide 
specific information to its subscribers. I think that is an entirely  plausible  explanation. I dont 
think this additional  analysis formed any part of SdBs agreement with Mr V, nor do I think a 
failure to monitor his pension investments in the same way should  be seen as the root cause  
of him being  unaware that his regular contributions were being placed  into the cash  deposit  
fund.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr V. He has lost out on investment 
returns due to his regular pension contributions being held in the cash deposit fund until he 
made changes to his wider investments.  But I havent seen anything to make me think  that is 
a result of incorrect advice or guidance  being  provided to him by SdB. And I dont think  this 
is something that should have been  identified through  SdBs Fund  Monitoring  Service  either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Symmons De Burgh.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7270351