K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complained about the advice by WSW  Financial Services  Ltd to transfer her final 
salary pension benefits to a SIPP.  The funds  were then used to invest in Harlequin overseas 
property development.  The investment has failed and most of the pension money has been 
lost. Mrs S wants  compensation  for that.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 14 March 2019,  a copy  of that decision is attached  to 
and forms part of this final decision.
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.
WSW has been provided with a copy of my provisional decision.  They  have not responded 
to the provisional  decision. We have been informed  that the director of the company has 
applied to place  the company in liquidation.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that WSW pays  the 
balance.
I uphold the complaint and direct WSW Financial Services  Ltd to pay fair compensation as 
set out in my provisional decision.
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the 
£150,000 plus interest I recommend that WSW  pays Mrs S the balance plus simple interest 
at a rate of 8% gross a year.
Its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to her after the money  award has been paid. Mrs S may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72276642copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complained about the advice by WSW Financial Services Ltd to transfer her final salary 
pension benefits  to a SIPP. The funds were then used to invest in Harlequin  overseas property 
development. The investment has failed and most of the pension money has been  lost. Mrs S wants  
compensation for that.
background
Mrs S was introduced  by Spectrum Financial  Services Limited to Easy Financial Planning (UK) LLP 
(Easy FP). Spectrum  didnt  have the relevant permissions  to carry out the transfer whereas Easy  FP 
did. Easy FP is an appointed representative of WSW.
A fact find and personal review document was produced by Spectrum in February  2011.  Only 
pensions and retirement planning were recorded as objectives. Mrs Ss attitude to investment risk 
(ATR) was recorded  as speculative to highly speculative. Only the final salary pension  was listed.  The 
form was signed in March 2011.
An Easy FP personal document pack was then completed by Spectrum. It included a fact find 
recording personal  and financial details. Only the final salary pension transferred was noted.  It says 
Mrs S wanted  to retire  at age 70 on 2/3rds income. Equal first objectives  were  increasing pension;  
tax-free lump sum and ability to retire  early. A number  of risk and volatility  questions were answered  
supporting an ATR rating of ultra-speculative.
A transfer value of £63,900.39 was available  from the final salary scheme  for pensionable service of 
nearly eight  years. The benefits given up were a pension  of £3,668.84 and lump sum of £11,006.52 
from age 60 valued in October  2010.
There are Harlequin documents showing the full property price  of £150,000; reservation  fee and 
deposit totalling 30% or £45,000. These were dated between  January and March  2011.
A pension  transfer  analysis (TVAS) dated July 2011 was completed. It lists the value and benefits 
above. The proposed plan compared was a Zurich  Self Invested Personal  Pension Plan with initial 
commission of 3% and basic annual management charge of 0.6%. The critical yield for this 
comparison was 11.74% to match the scheme benefits.
An Easy FP transfer  options  report was produced in July 2011. This notes again  all the above details 
and the critical yield of 11.74%.  The report says:
This is a very valuable occupational pension that will provide  guaranteed benefits  that would 
be very expensive to obtain  by any other means. Because this type of scheme  is so valuable, 
and nowadays rare, you should not transfer out. If you do effect a transfer and subsequently 
change your mind,  the trustees of the scheme are not obliged to accept a return  of funds and 
will not re-instate  you as a member of the pension.
And
Transferring the value to a Self-Invested Pension Plan would require at least  11.74% growth  
per year net of all fees and charges just to match the estimated guaranteed  benefits.  In my 
opinion this is unsustainable.
It notes the recorded ultra-speculative  ATR together with some  observations as well as the following 
warning in bold:
Ref: DRN72276643With a single  commercial property asset situated offshore, you would lose this flexibility and 
control. Although  you state that you have an ultra-speculative  attitude to risk, to place  such a 
large percentage of your accrued retirement provision into one single high risk asset would 
seem unduly optimistic. Therefore I do not feel that it would be suitable for you. My best 
advice to you at this time therefore is not to proceed.
And
Bearing in mind your present circumstances and the increased risk involved in transferring 
the scheme into an offshore investment, I am strongly advising against proceeding with 
this transfer.
There are further strong risk warnings and this statement on Harlequin:
Easy Financial Planning have not been  asked  to provide an opinion on this scheme 
and we accept no liability  whatsoever on its use.
Next theres a typed letter from August 2011 addressed  from Mrs S to Spectrum saying:
I am in receipt of your pension report which  you have prepared for me. Having  read the 
report thoroughly and whilst I appreciate your advice, I would like to continue  with my plans to 
establish a SIPP with my fund.
If you would be kind enough to arrange this for me as soon as possible it would be much 
appreciated.
Theres a transfer options report addendum later in August 2011.  This seems to be in response to the 
above letter and starts off with these warnings:
I wish to reiterate that you are going ahead with this SIPP property investment against my 
advice and the responsibility for the investment(s) chosen is entirely your own.
I also see that with almost 8 years service in your scheme you are risking a sizeable 
proportion of your retirement provision  by transferring  into this scheme  - one that offers no 
safeguards or guarantees - unlike the [name of pension  scheme].
It then says the aim of the report  was to summarise your current situation and your objectives, and to 
facilitate a transfer of your pension scheme into a SIPP  managed by Guardian Pension Consultants in 
accordance with your instructions.
The report essentially reinforces  the previous  one, again  strongly advising against the transfer and the 
investment in Harlequin. It also advised the charges for this SIPP may be higher than for a personal 
pension.
Easy FP then arranged the transfer. Harlequin  has since run into difficulties. The property hasnt been 
built and it appears unlikely that Mrs S will receive  any of her investment back.
Mrs S complained to EFP in June 2017.
WSW investigated the complaint, but did not uphold  it. In summary, it said:
EFP did not advise Mrs S to invest in Harlequin   they strongly  advised against the transfer to 
the SIPP  and investment in Harlequin.
The July 2011 report was very clear about the risks, unsuitability of Harlequin  and advice  not 
to transfer the pension.
EFP was paid a 3% fee for the transfer,  just over £1,800, of which 50% was paid to Spectrum; 
this was not excessive.
Ref: DRN72276644Easy  FPs August 2011 report made Mrs S aware of the SIPP fees and said that the charges 
for this type of contract may be much  higher than for an invested  Personal  Pension.
Easy  FP received no remuneration in connection with Harlequin  and were  not aware of any 
paid to anyone else.
Easy  FP treated Mrs S as an insistent client going against their advice.
Spectrum are responsible for the investment  in Harlequin.
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint. He thought that the complaint should  succeed.  In 
summary, he concluded that:
Easy  FP gave advice on the transfer  to the SIPP. That was regulated advice.
The regulators rules at the time required  a firm to gather enough  information  about  the client  
to enable it to give suitable advice. Easy FP gave advice to Mrs S not to transfer her pension  
to the SIPP. That was suitable advice.
It was clear that Mrs S wasnt a high net worth or sophisticated investor. She had no 
experience of investing in unregulated  funds. This was her only pension. The assessment of 
Mrs S has being  ultra-speculative was not credible.
The letter  in August  2011 from Mrs S to Spectrum was typed. It didnt  give her reasons for 
ignoring the advice.  Easy FP could have questioned her reasons for investing.
Even if Mrs S insisted on transferring  her pension  Easy FP should not have arranged to 
transfer. They  should  have  realised that the transfer was not Mrs Ss best interests.
Easy  FP was paid 3% of the transfer value, but only if the transfer went ahead. This was a 
conflict of interest.
If Easy FP had not arranged the transfer,  its unlikely Mrs S would have transferred her 
pension benefits.
WSW didnt  agree. In summary  they said:
Mrs S was treated as an insistent client. The adjudicators view that the complaint should be 
upheld against  WSW  is inconsistent  with the conclusion in other cases.
Spectrum arranged investment in Harlequin.  WSW  did not arrange the investment in 
Harlequin and should therefore have no liability.  
Neither WSW  nor Easy FP received any payment from Harlequin. If another  regulated adviser 
had received payment  they should  have  some  liability.
The SIPP  provider should also have some liability for accepting the investment  in Harlequin.
The adjudicator said that the assessment of Mrs Ss risk was not credible. But she completed 
a risk profiling exercise and signed  to confirm  it was correct.
They  did not agree  that WSW should be liable for arranging the SIPP. They  did not arrange  
the investment  and the client should bear some  responsibility.
The letter  signed by Mrs S is important. Easy FP did not tell her to sign the letter.
Many clients have  been paid part of the commission  as an incentive to invest in Harlequin.  
That has not been investigated.
They  do not have  the benefit of hindsight. And so did not know whether the investment would 
perform well.
Mrs S complains  that she was told amongst  other things investment was low risk and if Easy  
FP had explained she could lose all of her pension she would  not have invested.  This is all 
not true. Easy FP clearly  advised this was a high risk transaction.
The complaint was referred to me. I asked our adjudicator  to call Mrs S and ask her a number of 
questions. In summary,  this is what was said:
Mrs S did not receive any payments from Harlequin  or anyone  connected with it.
Mrs S found out about Harlequin from a third party. She wasnt sure who he worked for  
something Mortgages.
She was told it was investing in property and would make money. Certainly not that it was 
risky or would lose the lot.
Ref: DRN72276645The adjudicator asked her if she had heard  of Spectrum. She said yes thats who he worked  
for.
She thought she had initially complained  to Spectrum.
She didnt  remember that she signed to say her ATR was ultra-speculative. She wasnt fully 
aware of what  she was signing.
She doesnt remember seeing the report advising her not to transfer.
Why did she sign the letter  saying  she wanted to go ahead anyway?  She didnt  remember but 
thinks she remembers  being told it might not make a lot but not could lose the lot.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account  relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Easy FP is an appointed representative of WSW. The principal was responsible for the actions of its 
representative. The complaint has correctly been set up against WSW Financial Services Ltd.
The regulators rules apply to firms carrying  out regulated business. There  are principles which set out 
a general statement of the fundamental  obligations  of firms.  There  are more  detailed  rules that firms 
have to comply with. One of these is COBS 2.1.1; the clients best interests rule. This says that a firm 
must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 9.2 required  a firm to gather information about its client to enable it to give suitable  advice. Any 
advice it gave  had to be suitable for the clients circumstances. There is no dispute that Easy  FP gave 
advice to Mrs S. That advice  was not to transfer her pension benefits. I agree that was suitable advice  
for Mrs S.
Easy FP recognised that the transfers and investments were not suitable. It said that the transfer 
could result in the loss of the entire pension,  which would be disastrous  for Mrs Ss retirement . It is 
apparent that Easy FP did not believe  Mrs S was a high net worth client;  nor did it believe she was a 
sophisticated investor. She did not have experience of investing  in unregulated funds. Mrs S was 
recorded in the documentation as having a speculative attitude to investment risk. Easy FP noted that 
the transfer and subsequent investment was one which not even an ultra-speculative  investor would 
entertain.
I agree with the advice that Easy FP gave  to Mrs S not to transfer her pension. The question  is 
therefore whether Easy FP should have processed the transfer against its own advice.
The adviser  at Spectrum was meeting  with Mrs S and completed the fact find. Spectrum was advising 
Mrs S about the investments  in the SIPP.
The letter Mrs S signed in August 2011 was addressed to Spectrum. It explains that Mrs S had read 
the report  advising her not to transfer. She went on to ask Spectrum to arrange the transfer anyway. 
In my view,  this letter should  have given some  indication  of the reasons why Mr S wanted to ignore 
the advice. I think as a minimum Easy FP should have checked whether  Mrs S understood the risks 
and why she wanted to transfer against their advice.
In this case, the only asset  Mrs S had was her pension benefits. Its clear she could not afford  to take 
any risk with this. Suitable  advice was not to transfer. I think they should have understood why Mrs S 
was prepared to ignore the advice.
Spectrum had assessed Mrs S as being prepared  to be ultra-speculative.  That is not consistent  with 
her existing investments.  And I think more  importantly  she was not in a position  to accept  any risk with 
Ref: DRN72276646her pension. In my view,  Easy  FP should  have  made further enquiries to understand why Mrs S 
wanted to invest in Harlequin. Im satisfied from the answers given by Mrs S to our adjudicator that 
she was being told that this was a good investment. I also think  it is likely she was told it was relatively  
low risk being a property investment. I think its likely that this was either [third partys  name] or 
Spectrum who were telling Mrs S these things.
Clearly, Easy FP was aware that accepting this type of business came with some risks.  That appears 
to be the reason  for calling the regulator  to discuss the approach. The result of that conversation 
appears to be that the call handler at the regulator  thought accepting  the business  would not be in 
breach of any rules. There was a moral dilemma about completing business  that was not in the 
clients best interests.
I have carefully considered  how I should approach  this issue.  The regulator  issued guidance for the 
industrywide review  of pensions in 1994.  That guidance  explained how firms should assess cases 
involving insistent clients. The guidance only applied to cases that fell within  the review period which 
finished in June 1994. But, the approach  set out in that guidance can be applied to this case.
The guidance specifically dealt with the review of insistent  clients. It explained that firms  should be 
alert for any signals such as unusually high numbers  of insistent  clients or the use of technical or 
standard phrases  by investors.
Easy FP told us that from 2010 they received 33 enquiries from clients who wanted to invest in 
Harlequin or a combination  of investments. They gave advice to 30 clients; all of whom were advised 
not to transfer their pensions.  Of these  18 insisted  on acting against the advice. That appears to me to 
be a high number  of cases.
The adviser  at WSW clearly  recognised that this was a risky transaction. He called the regulator  to 
discuss the approach. That was before any advice  was given to Mrs S. The discussion with the 
regulator was about one case.  It also involved  transferring from a final salary pension scheme  to a 
SIPP. Ive listened to the call, which concluded by saying that the decision how to proceed was a 
moral one. I take it to mean the adviser  thought transferring  the pension  was not suitable for the 
consumer involved.  The question  was whether Easy FP should arrange the transfer.
In my view the moral  dilemma was about acting in the clients best interests. This is one of the 
conduct of business  rules. Easy FP had already advised against the transfer. It is clear  to me that the 
adviser realised the transfer was not in Mrs Ss best interests.
It is clear that a number of transfers were referred to Easy FP. Weve been told this started in 2010. 
By the time Mrs S transferred her pension,  I think Easy FP should  have had concerns  about  the 
process.
Easy FP told us it decided to stop taking business on an insistent client basis.  This was after the 
regulator issued an alert about transferring monies  to SIPPs to invest in unregulated products. They  
took the view this was a change to the position outlined to them  in August 2011.
The regulator  recently  issued guidance about insistent clients.  I have tried not to take this guidance  
into account  in reaching my conclusion. But, I think this guidance reflects the principles and rules  that 
were in place at the time Mrs S transferred her pension to the SIPP.
The advice from Easy FP was not to transfer. I think it was clear  that this was a high risk strategy. But, 
I am concerned about the high number of insistent client cases. This is something I would not have 
expected to see. It isnt clear exactly how many cases had been completed on this basis by the time 
Mrs S transferred her benefits. I think its likely that there had been more than one or two of these.
I accept that Easy FP advised against the transfer. But I think the crucial point is whether  they acted  
in their clients best interests. Easy FP was only paid if the transfer completed. This is a conflict of 
interests and I cannot see how that was managed. This is a significant factor  in my decision making.
Ref: DRN72276647Easy FP was aware that the transfer was unsuitable for Mrs S. And that the transfer was likely  to 
leave Mrs S significantly worse off in retirement. In my view, Easy  FP should  have known  that the 
adviser at Spectrum or the unregulated firm selling  the investments was instrumental  in the decision 
being made by Mrs S. I think it should  have  refused  to process the transfer. It clearly wasnt in the 
clients best interests.  I consider Easy FP to be responsible for any losses Mrs S has suffered.
It is possible that Spectrum could have some liability for the losses suffered. It is also possible that 
other parties could have  some liability. But in my view,  the investments could not have been made if 
WSW had treated Mrs S fairly. If WSW wishes to take action against any other party to recover some 
of the losses it may ask Mrs S to co-operate; that is if Mrs S is compensated in full.
WSW referred to other cases investigated by this service. They  say those cases  have similar facts  
and so should  reach similar  outcomes. I have considered those cases. They were resolved at the first 
stage of our process  after an adjudicator  gave an initial  view. There  are some  differing facts  in the 
cases. One of the important things is that I am aware that there were a large number of similar cases. 
I think  its likely all of these cases  were  investigated without that knowledge. It is therefore possible 
that those  cases could have  been decided  differently by an ombudsman.  In any event, I am not bound  
by previous decisions  that have been made.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs S as close to the position she would  now be in if WSW had acted in her best 
interests. I think that she would have kept her final salary benefits.  
what did WSW do to contribute to Mrs Ss loss?
Easy FP was paid commission  of 3% for setting up the SIPP. It split this equally with Spectrum. Easy 
FP was also aware that an unregulated business was involved. It also dealt with all of the 
administration for setting up the SIPP  and the investments.
WSW was required  to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma referred to 
when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW had acted in the best interests of its client, it should have 
refused to process the transfer.
The transactions would not have been  made but for the involvement of WSW. Ultimately, I regard  
WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did Easy  FPs actions  cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP  would be invested in Harlequin. WSW realised 
that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed Mrs Ss pension fund to significant  risk.
the role of Spectrum
Spectrum was clearly involved in the advice to invest the pension funds. But, the transfer could not 
have been made unless WSW was involved.
the role of the unregulated firm selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Mrs S by an unregulated firm. Any complaint about that firm cannot  be dealt 
with by this service. One of the purposes  of regulation was to provide consumer protection. I think it is 
appropriate that if losses are suffered the consumer should be compensated for the actions of the 
regulated firm. Being a regulated adviser comes with responsibilities.  If WSW wants  to take an 
assignment of any rights  Mrs S may be able to give against any third parties it may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
Ref: DRN72276648the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP  provider could have prevented the investments  being made. But, I think the 
primary reason  for the loss was the actions of regulated firms giving  advice to Mrs S. Again  if WSW 
wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against the SIPP  provider in may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin and those  involved  with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated  with Harlequin. 
WSW could argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably  be held responsible  
for the loss. However, it does not necessarily  follow  that it would  not be fair or reasonable to conclude  
that WSW is responsible for Mrs Ss loss.
The outcome of any proceedings  that may arise is not yet known and may be some way off. I am not 
in a position  to make any judgment about the conduct of those  involved in the management of 
Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair compensation for Mrs S. 
And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties are responsible, either wholly or in part, 
for Mrs Ss loss. I have considered that very carefully, along with more  general issues  of causation 
and foreseeability.
How a fund is managed is an inherent and foreseeable risk. But where there may have been fraud in 
connection with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been a break  in the chain  of 
causation. This break  might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses suffered  by a consumer 
flow from the unsuitable advice.
In my view, there  is no doubt that Mrs S would not have made  the investment  if WSW  had taken the 
appropriate action. There is enough evidence  here for me to conclude  that WSW was not acting in its 
clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should  compensate Mrs S for the loss of 
her pension  fund. That includes the investment loss that could not have happened, but for its advice.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They were unusual 
holdings, operating in a very specific  way and without a track record.  They  were  complex investments 
that were not easy to understand. They  could suffer large losses, the nature of which  would be difficult 
to predict  or estimate at the outset.
I am satisfied that Mrs S would  not have  invested,  but for the actions of WSW. In my view,  it is fair to 
assess compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put Mrs S in the position  she would have been in 
but for the unsuitable  advice - despite any arguments around any fraud breaking the chain of 
causation.
what should WSW do?
My aim is to put Mrs S in the position she would  now be in if she had received suitable  advice. I think 
that she would have:  a.) kept her existing pension; b.) wouldnt have invested in Harlequin; and c.) as 
a result wouldnt  have opened the SIPP  (and now be subject  to ongoing SIPP fees).  In setting  out how 
to calculate fair compensation my objective is to address these  three issues.  That is what Im trying to 
achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors  in making an award. While  I understand 
Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment from Mrs S that is now unlikely.
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award  I may make. 
The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that the contract  and 
any future payments  would be enforceable. While its complicated to put Mrs S back  in the position 
she would have been in if WSW  had acted in her interests, I think  its fair that Mrs S is compensated 
Ref: DRN72276649now. I dont think I should wait and determine each and every possibility  before making  an award. 
What is set out below is a fair way of achieving this.
WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value of Mrs Ss pensions,  if she had not 
transferred, with the current value  of her SIPP. In summary:
1.For the final salary  scheme;  review this transfer in line with the methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mrs Ss Harlequin  Property investment.
3.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mrs Ss SIPP  on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
In addition,  WSW should:
4.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mrs S to the SIPP.
5.Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have explained how WSW  should carry this out in further detail below.
1.For the final salary  scheme;  review this transfer in line with the methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should carried out as at the date of my final decision;  using the most  recent financial  
assumptions published (at the date of that decision). This should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
WSW may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account  
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the review calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should, if possible,  be paid into Mrs 
Ss pension  plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be paid 
directly to Mrs S as a lump sum. Had it been possible to pay the compensation  into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable  income. Therefore  the compensation  may be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. Mrs S is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance  should  equate to a reduction in 
the total amount  equivalent  to the current basic  rate of tax. However, as Mrs S would  have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied  to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until the date of 
payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
2.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mrs Ss Harlequin  Property investment.
Ref: DRN722766410The SIPP only exists  because  of the investment in Harlequin. In order for the SIPP to be closed  
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the Harlequin  investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP. I understand  this can be done. However, I understand that is now unlikely.
The valuation  of the Harlequin  investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation,  WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP provider  as a commercial 
value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs  and take ownership of the investment. If WSW is 
unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating 
compensation (including in step 1 above).
3.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mrs Ss SIPP  on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP provider. It should include the value of any money  paid for the 
Harlequin investment if that can be sold.  If the Harlequin investment  cannot  be removed from the 
SIPP it should  be given  a nil value to calculate  the compensation.
4.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mrs S to the SIPP.
Had WSW acted in Mrs Ss best interests I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mrs S 
continues to pay the annual SIPP  fees if it cant  be closed.
I think WSW  could take over the investments to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way 
of putting Mrs S back in the position she would have been in. But I dont know how long that will 
take. Third parties are involved and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that WSW pay Mrs S an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five 
years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous  years fees).  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways  
they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide  Mrs S with some  confidence that she will 
not be subject to further fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Mrs S to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount 
of any payment she may receive from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking  should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount  she may receive from the investment.  WSW will 
need to meet  any costs  in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks Mrs S to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation  awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
5.Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S has been caused some distress  by the loss of her pension benefits. I think that a 
payment of £250 is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that WSW pays the balance.
I presently intend to uphold the complaint and to direct  WSW Financial Services Ltd to pay fair 
compensation as set out above.
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the £150,000 plus 
interest I intend to recommend that WSW  pays Mrs S the balance plus simple  interest at a rate of 8% 
gross a year.
Ref: DRN722766411Its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to her after the money award  has been paid. Mrs S may want  to consider getting  
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN7227664