K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc did not refund him the money  he paid towards  his 
brothers drugs rehabilitation course.
background
In April 2018 Mr P paid for his brother to go on a 28-day residential drug rehabilitation 
course. He paid a deposit of £1,500 (I dont know by what  payment method), and he paid the 
balance of £4,995 with his Bank  of Scotland credit card. Shortly after the course began, in 
early May, Mr Ps brother  was accosted in his room by an aggressive and threatening man 
who was covered in blood. Fearing for his safety, he immediately dropped out of the course  
and did not return. The course provider did not agree  to pay a refund, but offered Mr P a 
treatment credit. Since Mr P had lost confidence in the course provider, he did not accept 
that offer, and he asked his bank for a refund of his credit  card payment.
Bank of Scotland declined to refund Mr P his money. It considered his claim under the 
Mastercard chargeback  rules and also under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
said that as the course provider had offered a credit, Mr P was not eligible for a chargeback. 
And it said that the course provider had not breached the terms and conditions  of its 
contract, so Mr Ps claim under section 75 could not succeed. Specifically,  it relied  on a 
clause which  said that if a customer does not complete the course, no refund will be paid.  
(However, it did offer to pay him £200 for some customer service issues which  had arisen 
while it was dealing with his claim.)
Mr P said there was an implied  term that the course providers premises would be safe,  and 
the course provider  had breached it. He brought this complaint to our Service, but our 
adjudicator did not uphold  it. She said that section 75 did not even apply, because Mr P had 
not been a party to the contract  between his brother and the course provider. Mr P asked on 
what basis the course provider had accepted his money, if he did not have a contract with it? 
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The complaint I am considering against  the bank is not about the course itself, but about 
how the bank  dealt with Mr Ps claim for a refund  of his credit card payment. There were two 
possible bases on which Mr P might  have been  entitled to a refund: under the chargeback 
scheme, or under section  75. Put simply,  Mr Ps complaint is that Bank of Scotland  reached  
the wrong outcome under either  or both of those avenues. Ill consider each in turn.
chargeback
Chargeback is not a legal  remedy but a system  run within the credit and debit card industry 
for dealing  with refunds of bank card payments. The chargeback rules are set by the card 
scheme provider and must be strictly followed by the card issuers.  In this case,  those parties 
are Mastercard and Bank  of Scotland, respectively.
I have considered the 1 May 2018 edition  of Mastercards chargeback rules. Its clear  that a 
chargeback could not have succeeded because the course provider offered Mr P a credit,  
Ref: DRN76712912and even though he did not accept it (and I understand why), that is enough  to dispose of his 
chargeback claim. So I agree that the bank could  not pursue that remedy further.
section 75
Section 75, where it applies, says that the provider of credit (Bank of Scotland) is jointly and 
severally liable for any breach of a contract to provide goods  or services by the supplier of 
the goods or services (the course provider)  if the contract was financed  by the credit so 
provided. The bank  is liable to the person  it provided the credit to (Mr P), provided that he 
has a claim for breach of contract. But that will generally only be the case if Mr P was a party 
to the contract. So I have considered whether that was the case here. I have taken my 
conclusion about  that point into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case.
I start with the terms and conditions for the course. Mr Ps brother is named as the course 
providers client. However, the terms go on to say, in a list of definitions, that the parties  to 
the contract  are you, us, and the Client.  So the terms envisage that there may be three 
parties.
Us means the course provider. You is defined as the Funder, but in the absence of a 
Funder having  signed the Treatment Order,  the Client.
The Treatment Order is in fact the same document, in which  the terms and conditions are 
set out. Immediately before the start of the terms and conditions are two boxes in which the 
client and the funder may sign. Mr Ps brother has signed as the client, but the box for the 
funder is unsigned  and crossed out. Funder is defined as a person other  than the Client 
who is funding the provision of Medical  Services for the benefit of the Client and who signs 
the Treatment Order . (Emphasis  added.)
Finally, clause 2.7 reads:
If a third party who has not signed this Contract pays the Fee then they are deemed 
to have made such payment on behalf of the Client  without  being a party to this 
Contract.
Since Mr P did not sign, he was not a party to the contract, as defined  by its terms.
I have considered Mr Ps argument that paying  for his brothers treatment made him a party 
to the contract  anyway,  regardless  of what the terms and conditions  say, but I do not think  
that it could have that effect in law. Paying  for the course discharged his brothers 
contractual obligation to pay the course  fee, but it was still his brothers obligation  all along. 
Discharging an obligation is not the same as accepting liability  for it. If nobody had paid the 
course fee, then the course providers  remedy would have been to sue Mr Ps brother for 
debt. Mr P would not have  been  liable. So I cannot accept that Mr P thereby made  himself  a 
party.
I have considered whether Mr P might  have third party  rights  to enforce his brothers  contract 
under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 but, having regard to section  1 of that 
Act, and to the terms and conditions, I have seen  nothing  to suggest that he does.
So for the above reasons,  I do not think that Mr P has the right to bring a claim against the 
course provider for breach of contract. It follows that section 75 does not give him the right to 
Ref: DRN76712913bring a like claim against Bank of Scotland. So the bank was not wrong to decline his claim 
for a refund.
Finally, for completeness, I will mention that Mr P also argued that his brother was so 
intoxicated when he signed the contract  that he was not competent  to enter  a contract. 
I make  no finding about that, because section 75 would not make Bank of Scotland  liable for 
it.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether to 
accept the banks offer of £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.  But if we do not hear from him, then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7671291