K820x#14complaint
Ms B says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms B bought the policy  in 2000  and it was added to her credit  card account when she 
activated a credit card she applied  for through the post. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms B says she didnt  know  that PPI was added to her account  she says that she had 
no idea that she had the policy,  and wanted evidence of how it was sold to her. Ms B 
applied for her credit card through the post  MBNA has supplied a copy  of her 
application. I can see that while there  are options  to take or decline PPI on this, neither 
has been selected  so the PPI wasnt taken out at this time. 
MBNA has then provided evidence in the form of a customer  sales note that says PPI 
was sold during a phone call a few weeks after she applied  for her credit card  MBNA 
say this was most likely have been  as part of an activation call for her new card.  
I cant be certain what was said at the time  theres  no call recording available.  But 
businesses arent  required to hold records indefinitely. However, MBNA has supplied 
copies of sales scripts that were in use at the time. These show  that MBNA staff 
wouldve been promoted to point out that the policy was optional, and gain proper 
consent for it to be added to the card. And I havent  seen anything  to suggest that MBNA 
wouldve done anything  differently when  it sold the PPI to Ms B. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  MBNA  made Ms B aware that she had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to protect her credit  card repayments. 
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her 
 but it did need  to give Ms B enough  information for her to decide if she thought it was 
right for her. 
The information MBNA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been   
and I dont think they properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what it might  pay 
out if Ms B made a claim. But Ms B chose to take out the policy  when she didnt have to 
 so she seems to have wanted it. And she doesnt appear  to have been affected  by any 
of the main things  the policy didnt cover.
Ref: DRN73082652Ive also taken into account that Ms B had very little guaranteed sick pay or savings 
couldve used to meet her card repayments if she had to stop working unexpectedly. So, 
even though the policy benefit was low, based on what  I know  about Ms Bs 
circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful  to her. And I dont think better 
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
This means  that, even though MBNA  didnt  do everything it shouldve done,  I dont  think  
Ms Bs lost out because of this. So I dont  uphold her complaint.
Ive taken into account Ms Bs comments, including what shes  said about her professions  
governing body paying her if she was unemployed. But Ms B cant show any evidence of this 
so this point doesnt change my conclusion.
Ive also considered what Ms B has said about  not needing PPI as there  would be no 
balance on the card to protect when she took it out. But the cost of PPI is proportionately 
linked to the balance on the card  and as Ms B spent on it she would be charged 
accordingly for her balance each month.  There  would be no charge if didnt have a balance  
outstanding.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7308265