K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, sold her credit card 
debt onto a third party, when she had made it aware  that she was having  difficulties  
financially and personally. 
In bringing her complaint, Mrs H is represented  by Mrs K.
background
In 2011, Mrs H had a Barclaycard and, as a result of an acquaintance  using the card without 
her permission, she was left with a balance on it that she found  herself  unable  to repay. 
Barclaycard agreed  to accept reduced repayments towards the account  but arrears  
continued to build up. And in September 2012,  it decided to transfer Mrs Hs debt onto a 
debt collection agency which  would honour the arrangement she had with Barclaycard until it 
was due for review.
In 2018, Mrs Hs representative, Mrs K, complained on her behalf.  They  questioned what 
Barclaycards responsibility to Mrs H during the time, as she had been experiencing very 
difficult personal circumstances.  They said Barclaycard had acted improperly  towards Mrs H 
and shown her a lack of care.
Barclaycard said it didnt think it had acted unfairly  or incorrectly  with Mrs Hs account. It said 
it is required to take action on accounts where  it feels this is necessary and it was obliged to 
report factual information to credit reference  agencies. It said it had kept Mrs H informed and 
followed its processes  correctly.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He 
didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly, as Mrs H hadnt met the required payments 
towards her credit card and the account  had fallen into arrears. 
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
On her behalf, Mrs K said that Mrs H had made Barclaycard aware of her financial situation 
in 2012. Mrs K said English wasnt Mrs Hs first language, and Barclaycard shouldve  
provided an interpretation of the documents it sent her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry  to hear about Mrs Hs situation and the difficulties shes  experienced. 
Although I fully appreciate that many  of the concerns Mrs K has raised on her behalf relate 
back to the initial problems Mrs H had when her acquaintance had used her Barclaycard, the 
matter Im considering here relates to Barclaycards  actions through the way it handled 
Mrs Hs account during that time and its agreement  to transfer  the debt onto the third party  
debt management  company.
Any points that shes raised about  the Payment Protection Insurance claim, compensation or 
that this couldve  reduced the debt in 2012  have been dealt with separately, and I wont be 
referring to these aspects  further in this decision.
Ref: DRN71430072I can see that Barclaycard  wrote  to Mrs H in 2011 when she fell into arrears with the 
repayments towards her balance. And it used its legal right of set-off  to use a credit amount 
in Mrs Hs other accounts with Barclays against these arrears. So I think Barclaycard kept 
Mrs H informed of the arrears on her account; what actions it was taking about this and also 
what she could do to set up a way of repaying them. 
Mrs H had help from a debt management  company through that time, and made  an offer of 
reduced monthly repayments. However, this was less than it needed to introduce a formal 
repayment agreement  for Mrs H and Barclaycard set out what this would mean for her 
account  including that it would be closed from further use; no fees or interest would be 
charged on the balance; and that it could be referred  to a debt collection agency  if the 
regular payments werent made. 
And in September 2012, Barclaycard transferred Mrs Hs account onto a debt collection 
agency. 
Having looked  over the history of the account, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly in 
closing the account or in transferring the debt.  I appreciate all of the difficulties Mrs H was 
having through that time, and I can understand that this situation would have been made all 
the more difficult  through her attempts to manage her finances and this debt. But I think 
Barclaycard looked  to respond positively and sympathetically to Mrs H by accepting  reduced 
payments and in stopping  the interest and charges being applied  to the balance. 
Barclaycard let Mrs H know it was a possibility that her account  would  be transferred to a 
debt collection agency if the payments towards  the balance werent maintained  - it was no 
longer the legal owner of her debt once this happened. 
I understand the point Mrs K has made about English not being Mrs Hs first language,  and 
that an interpretation of the letters Barclaycard  sent to her wouldve helped.  However,  I can 
see that Mrs H had sought the help and advice from a debt management  company  through 
that time,  which was corresponding with Barclaycard on her behalf and referred to the letters 
from it. And I havent seen  that Mrs H asked Barclaycard to correspond  with her in a different 
format. Barclaycards  records  also show that Mrs H was in contact with it by phone  through 
2012.
Mrs H has told us about the impact of this debt; the affect its had on her credit rating and 
that a County Court Judgement has been  registered against her. However,  Barclaycards 
records dont show that it recorded a default  against Mrs H during  the time it did own the 
debt. So its possible that this may have  happened through the debt collection agency. 
Overall, although I can appreciate how difficult this period of time and situation wouldve 
been for Mrs H, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly or inappropriately in the way it 
handled Mrs Hs credit card account  and her difficulties in making payments towards  the 
balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Ref: DRN71430073Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7143007