K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr M complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt provide them with the correct cooling 
off period on a managed loan.
There are two Mr Ms involved  in this complaint, where relevant Ive referred  to them  as 
Mr M1, and Mr M2.
background
Mr and Mr M drew  down  a managed loan in 2010  - a managed  loan is generally  offered as a 
way for consumers to bring all their debts together, making it easier to pay them  back  with a 
single monthly repayment. Mr and Mr M say they werent told that there was a 14 day 
cooling off period for the loan and that HSBC didnt  allow them  any time to consider the loan 
once they had applied for it. Mr and Mr M say that because  of this, they were unable  to 
decide if they wanted the loan and have  asked HSBC to refund half of the interest paid on 
the loan and pay compensation for their financial loss, stress and upset.
HSBC have said that the 14 day cooling off period  would have been discussed at the time of 
the application and that the application  form would have included  this information.  HSBC 
also say Mr and Mr Ms loan agreement advises them of their cancellation rights.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mr Ms concerns. He said based on the information 
available, he thought it more likely that Mr and Mr M werent  provided  with information about  
the 14 day cooling off period when they applied for the loan. However, he didnt think this 
had led to any material loss to Mr and Mr M as he said Mr M1 told him that he and Mr M2 
were vulnerable at the time so werent  capable  of searching the market. So our investigator  
didnt recommend that HSBC did anything to put things right for Mr and Mr M.
Mr and Mr M disagreed. They reiterated  that they werent able to search the market  for a 
different loan with preferential  interest  rates because HSBC  hadnt told them  about the 
14 day cooling off period. Mr and Mr M also clarified  that they were capable  of searching  the 
market during the initial stages of the loan being set up but that HSBC  broke  the rules which 
put them in a difficult financial position. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mr M have provided a substantial  
amount of information.  And while Ive read everything theyve sent, Ive not reflected or 
commented on all of it in this decision.  Ive focused on the key aspects  of the complaint.
I want to make clear that my decision is only deciding Mr and Mr Ms complaint about the 14 
day cooling  off period when they took out the loan in 2010. Im unable  to comment  on any 
other aspects of their complaint in this decision and Im unable to comment  on any 
discussions Mr and Mr M say they have had with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Did HSBC make Mr and Mr M aware  of the 14 day cooling  off period?
HSBC were required as per the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to let their customers  know  about 
their right to cancel an agreement after theyd taken  it out  more  specifically, that they were 
allowed to cancel within 14 days  which  was the cooling off period.
Ref: DRN76923362HSBC have sent us a copy  of Mr and Mr Ms loan agreement. I can see theres a paragraph 
that explains once  the agreement is signed, Mr and Mr M will have for a short time a right to 
cancel the loan. It also says exact details of how and when this can be done will be sent to 
Mr and Mr M. HSBC  havent been able to provide any information to show the exact  details 
that were sent to Mr and Mr M after they sent back the signed  agreement.  And its not clear 
whether the details wouldve included  information  about the 14 day cooling  off period. 
Having considered this, I cant  be satisfied Mr and Mr M received information about the 
14 day cooling off period after the loan agreement was completed  and signed by them both.
HSBC have said that the 14 day cooling off period  would have been discussed at the point 
Mr and Mr M applied for the loan.  HSBC have also said that the 14 day cooling off period is 
explained in the loan application. But due to the passage  of time, HSBC havent  been able to 
provide a copy of Mr and Mr Ms application. HSBC have sent me example wording of what  
they say would have been included in the application  form. I cant be sure Mr and Mr M were 
made aware  of the 14 day cooling off period, but I dont  think knowing about it would have 
made a difference and Ill go on to explain why.
Has this failing had an impact on Mr and Mr M? And if so, should  HSBC do anything  to put 
things right?
Whilst Mr and Mr M may not have been aware  of the 14 day cooling off period at the point of 
the application  when  Mr and Mr M say there  were  capable  of searching the market for 
other loans   Im satisfied  that Mr and Mr M were  made aware that they could  cancel the 
loan after they signed the loan agreement. I say this because I think  the agreement clearly  
explains that Mr and Mr M have a short time to cancel the loan. 
I note Mr M1 says he was going through a difficult time soon after the loan was taken out 
and I can appreciate this may have been  stressful for Mr M1. But I think  if Mr and Mr M didnt 
want the loan,  Mr M2 could have  contacted  HSBC  to raise any concerns and at least  make 
an enquiry into cancelling the loan even if this wasnt within  14 days.
For me to be able to agree that Mr and Mr M lost out in not being  told about their 14 day right 
to cancel the agreement,  Id need  to be satisfied or have seen information to show  me that at 
some point after they took out the loan, they tried to cancel it. I havent seen this, and so I 
dont think that even if Mr and Mr M had been told about the 14 day cooling off period 
specifically, that they would  have  done  anything differently. So I dont think HSBC need to do 
anything to put things right for Mr and Mr M.
For all the reasons Ive explained above,  I dont think knowing about the 14 day cooling off 
period would have made  Mr and Mr M act any differently.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ref: DRN76923363ombudsman
Ref: DRN7692336