K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained about the way in which NRAM Limited has dealt with her mortgage 
account. Specifically,  Miss N says that NRAM  led her to believe  she had its consent to start 
a business from her home. After incurring substantial expense  converting the property, 
NRAM told her she did not have its consent. Miss N wants to be compensated for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused, and for the cost of the work to convert  the property.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several thousand pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
This issue in this case is fairly simple:  Miss N had a residential mortgage with NRAM. In 
2016 Miss N told NRAM she intended to run a care home from the property. Miss N sent 
NRAM a copy of her business plan and informed NRAM  she wouldnt be living  at the 
property. NRAM replied  to say it had no objection to the plans. Miss N obtained planning 
permission to use the property as an assisted  care facility for four people with learning  
disabilities or mental health issues.
But in 2018 NRAM  told Miss N she was in breach of her mortgage conditions and that shed 
have to reinstate  the property as a private  residence. Miss N complained to NRAM. After  
initially rejecting  the complaint, NRAM acknowledged it was at fault and that it had led 
Miss N to believe  she could move out of the property and run it as a care home.
NRAM offered compensation of £5,000 for the trouble and upset caused, along with a six-
month zero payment concession on the mortgage. NRAM also offered to cover the 
reasonable costs  of Miss N selling the property. Miss N sold the property on 21 February 
2020 for £475,000, and NRAM covered all the costs of sale.
Miss N didnt accept this. In summary  she said that NRAM  has recorded the six-month zero 
payment concession on her credit  file as missed  payments. She was also unhappy that, after 
NRAM sold the mortgage to a new business, she was recorded by that business  as being six 
months in arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72800432As Ive stated above, NRAM  has acknowledged  it made a mistake when it told Miss N she 
could convert the property  into a care home and that she didnt need to live there. Given  this, 
I dont need to establish who is at fault;  all I need to decide is what  would be fair 
compensation to put the error right.
Ive taken account of everything Miss N and NRAM have said. NRAM has offered 
compensation of £5,000. 
Miss N sent us an email  dated 12 November 2019  where she sets out details of a 
conversation with NRAM suggesting NRAM has offered  her £10,000  (which  she rejected). 
But there is nothing  in the file from NRAM to show it has offered this amount of 
compensation. The only offer of compensation is the offer of £5,000,  a six-month payment 
concession and payment of all fees involved in selling the property. So what I have to decide 
is whether I think thats a fair offer. 
Miss N doesnt think it goes far enough.  She wants NRAM to cover all the expense  she had 
to go to in converting  the property so it was suitable  for use as a residential care home.
Miss N has explained  what  this work entailed:
I created  a fourth bedroom by converting my TV room /lounge and the dining area 
became the clients  lounge  and dining area.  The care home had to meet all the safety  
requirements and these included fire safety  for all the rooms.  London Fire came to 
[the property] to assess the fire doors, fire alarm system, extinguishers  and to ensure  
there was an evacuation  plan in place as required by the Health & Safety regulations. 
I also had engineers who came to check the gas, electricals and [the care home 
business] got approval certificates. All the bedrooms, toilets, kitchen and dining 
rooms were renovated  as required. I converted my garage into an office, staff room 
and relaxation  room. I had a new double-glazing  door,  new double-glazing  windows  
were fitted.  We got a Fensa [double glazing guarantee] certificate. My office was 
fitted with business internet.
So on the face of it, it appears Miss N some  work  which was necessary for her business (fire 
alarms, fire doors), but she also carried out other  work which was for the general 
enhancement of the property, such as double glazing, new kitchen and bathrooms and 
general refurbishment, redecoration and renovation of the property. Im not persuaded it 
would be fair to expect  NRAM to pay for these. 
I say this because  Ive looked at the sales particulars for the property, which are available  
online. These show that the property was marketed as a well presented  and extended 3 
bedroomed family home. The sales particulars show the property to have a separate  
lounge, and an open-plan kitchen-diner. The photographs show the property to be in 
extremely good decorative order, refurbished to a high standard.
Ive looked at recent sale prices for other  properties  in the area. I see that 3-bedroomed 
properties have  sold for about £50,000-£80,000 less than Miss Ns property. A 4-bedroomed 
property with a loft conversion sold for about the same amount. So I think  the work carried  
out by Miss N in renovating her property into a very well-appointed 3-bedroomed home has 
resulted in her achieving  a higher sales price than other similar 3-bedroomed properties in 
the area. Given this, I dont think it would be fair for NRAM  to compensate  Miss N for the 
cost of the renovations, as this has already been  reflected in the sale price.
Ref: DRN72800433NRAM paid all the costs  of sale, so Miss N has already received that part of NRAMs offer of 
compensation. 
NRAM has offered ca payment of £5,000 for the trouble and upset it caused to Miss N. This 
is a substantial award of compensation and one which I think fairly reflects  the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss N. I dont intend to order NRAM to pay any additional 
compensation.
Miss N says that NRAM recorded the six-month payment concession on her mortgage 
account as missed payments on her credit  file. NRAM is required to give credit reference 
agencies accurate information and a payment concession  is included in this as missed 
payments. So NRAM  has done nothing wrong  in reporting this information. Miss N can, if 
she wishes, add a notice  of correction to her credit file explaining what  the missed payments 
were for, so that future lenders can see this. And if Miss N thinks  inaccurate information has 
been recorded against her, she can refer this to the Information Commissioner.
Overall, taking into account everything thats happened, I think  NRAMs offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I acknowledge Miss N was 
caused considerable upset, but I think the award of compensation reflects  this and is 
proportionate to the mistake NRAM made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  that the compensation 
of £5,000 offered by NRAM Limited for the trouble and upset caused to Miss N is fair and 
reasonable. I simply leave  it to Miss N to decide  if she wants to accept it in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7280043