K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr N bought the policy in January 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit  card.  The 
credit card and PPI were  taken out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr N disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made Mr N aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Ns credit  card application form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, under  the section headed  Barclaycard Payment Protection, I can see Mr N 
had the option of selecting whether or not he wanted  the PPI added  to his card.  Theres  a 
tick in the box next to the statement Yes, I want my account with you to be covered against  
unemployment, accident, sickness and death. So, I think  its more likely Mr N agreed to the 
PPI, knowing he had a choice.
Mr N has said he was told by the Barclays advisor  that his credit  card application was more  
likely to be accepted  if the agreed  to the PPI. And I accept  that (approximately  15 years on) 
this is how Mr N might remember  the sale. But I havent seen enough to say Barclays 
crossed the line and told Mr N this when this wasnt the case. Overall, I think its more  likely 
that Barclays gave  Mr N a choice about  the PPI. And that he chose to take it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr N, and the policy seems to have been  right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  He was eligible for cover and
I cant see that he would have been  affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical  conditions.
Mr N has told us he would have received at least three months sick pay from his employer  if 
he was too unwell to work. Hes also told us that he had some savings which he could have 
use to help with his repayments.
Ref: DRN75763612Having thought about what  Mr N has said about his sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means the PPI wasnt right for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr N would have  received  from his employer and would have paid 
out for longer. The PPI also would have  paid a benefit if Mr N was ever made redundant and 
would have enabled him to use his savings for any other financial responsibilities he may 
have had.
I also havent seen  anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr N when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular  need to keep costs down. So, overall,  I 
think Barclays recommendation was suitable.  And I think Mr N could have found  the cover  
useful if he ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mr N, Barclays  also had to give him 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays  didnt  give him all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mr N buying  it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr N about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7576361