K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled his travel insurance  claim 
after he was injured abroad. Ill use Aviva  to include its agents. 
background 
While on a long haul trip abroad Mr W unfortunately suffered injuries, including  a head injury.  
He asked Aviva for help.  
Aviva discussed Mr Ws medical and hotel arrangements with him. It also sorted out his 
journey back to the UK. But Mr W said Aviva hadnt given him a good service.  In particular, 
he complained  about it failing to pay for a hotel, that it had spoken with him insensitively and 
the route it had chosen for his flights home.  
Aviva said sorry  that the arrangements to pay for the hotel didnt  run smoothly. But it didnt 
think its staff had spoken to him insensitively. Aviva explained it had rearranged  the return  
journey to include a flight  rather than a taxi journey, at Mr Ws request. And it said sorry that 
the return journey  took a few days to finalise. It hoped its explanation and apology was 
enough to resolve  the complaint. Mr W didnt accept  this and came to us.
Our senior  investigator looked  into the complaint. He spoke with Mr W and sent him a 
detailed letter with a timeline setting out the arrangements  Aviva  had made  while Mr W was 
abroad. Our senior  investigator thought Aviva had given Mr W a very good service.  But he 
ultimately recommended that it pay Mr W £150 compensation for the problems around the 
hotel arrangements. Mr W didnt think that was enough. So the complaints come to me for 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have been sorry  to hear about the injury Mr W suffered while  he was abroad.  It was clearly 
an upsetting time for him, and no doubt  he just wanted to get home  as quickly as possible.
In reviewing his complaint  I need to decide  whether Aviva took reasonable steps  to help 
Mr W under  the travel  insurance  policy. Ive carefully thought about all the evidence. And 
having done so I agree with our senior  investigators  conclusions for the reasons hes given.  
This means  that I think Aviva should  pay Mr W £150  compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Ill explain  my reasons,  focusing  on what  I think  are the central points of the 
complaint. 
In the main I think Aviva dealt with Mr Ws request for help quickly and well. It spoke with him 
on the phone and, when that proved difficult, emailed both him and his friend (with Mr Ws 
agreement). I can see that some of the conversations became rather heated,  and Mr W was 
frustrated with the situation. But I think Aviva  dealt with Mr W professionally. It listened to his 
concerns and tried to help.
Unfortunately there was some confusion over the hotel booking  and payment for the hotel. 
Aviva thought Mr W was moving  to a new hotel, but in fact he stayed with his friend on a 
Ref: DRN72252342boat. And there was a problem because the hotel wouldnt accept Avivas payment by credit 
card. 
Ive listened to Mr Ws conversations with Aviva when he explained he needed cash  to pay 
the hotel. Aviva considered a few different options.  Mr W said his friend  would be able to 
make a payment,  if Aviva could transfer  cash for him to pay his friend back.
In the end Aviva arranged  for an agent  to visit the hotel in person to pay the cash.  But Mr W 
had to leave his belongings and passport at the hotel. And he explained  the hotel called the 
police which must have been distressing for him. 
I think Aviva  could have seen that it would need  to help Mr W pay for the hotel before he 
called it. But I think the hotels actions were out of its control, where  it wouldnt accept its 
assurances that an agent would pay the bill in cash. But having weighed up all the evidence 
I think a compensation  payment of £150  is fair and reasonable,  in addition to the apologies 
Aviva has already made to Mr W.
Mr W explained a four hour taxi journey to the airport would be uncomfortable for him, given 
his injury and the state of the local roads.  Aviva  agreed to arrange  an internal flight instead. 
And although the route back to the UK wasnt the one that Mr W wanted to take, I think  Aviva 
made appropriate arrangements based  on the flight availability at that time.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mr W £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Aviva must pay the total 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts  my final decision. 
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest*  on the compensation at a simple rate of 8% 
per year from the date of my final decision until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Aviva Insurance Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken  off. It should also 
give Mr W a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7225234