K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C took out an unsecured personal  loan with Nationwide in 2003 over the phone and 
bought a PPI policy  at the same time. The loan included an amount to pay for the policy.
Mr C says, among other things, that Nationwide didnt explain the terms and conditions  of 
the PPI to him, so he wasnt able to make  an informed choice about whether he wanted it. 
And he says he had employee benefits  and an income protection policy that meant he didnt 
need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr C disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr C he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. I think its likely Nationwide did this. Ive seen  a call script Nationwide says its 
representative wouldve  followed during the call. The script instructs the representative to 
give quotes for the loan with and without  PPI. So I think its likely Mr C wouldve been aware 
the PPI was optional. I can also see the loan agreement Mr C signed after the call describes 
the PPI as optional and shows  the separate costs for it.
Nationwide and Mr C agree it didnt recommend the PPI to him. So it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. But Nationwide did have to make  sure Mr C had enough information to 
make that decision himself in an informed  decision  way. 
I can see the cost of the policy  was shown on the loan agreement   including  the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr C 
wouldve understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for the full loan term. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest he couldnt afford it.
Mr C says hed have  got full sick pay from his employer for six months, and half pay for a 
further six months after that. He also says his job was very secure and so he was unlikely to 
need to claim for unemployment under the policy. But if Mr C made a successful claim, the 
PPI wouldve  paid his monthly loan repayments  until he returned to work or, if sooner, until 
the loan was repaid. And it would  have paid the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 
months per claim if hed lost his job. 
Mr C says he also had an income protection policy. But he says this wouldve had a 12 
month deferral period  and, if he claimed successfully, wouldve paid 50% of his salary until 
he returned to work.  So, although I know Mr C doesnt agree, I think the PPI policy  could still 
have been of some use to him.
Ref: DRN77722872Not all PPI policies gave  a proportionate refund  of the PPI premium if a loan was settled 
early and a policy cancelled. But the policy Mr C bought did, meaning he got a proportionate 
refund of his premium  when he did this. So I dont think more  information about the policys  
cancellation terms wouldve made a difference to his decision to go ahead with it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But, from 
what Ive seen, its unlikely Mr C wouldve been  affected by any of these things.
So, all in all, I dont  think Mr C lost out because of anything Nationwide did wrong  and so 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7772287