K820x#14Complaint
Miss P complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) unfairly  added  
interest to her account for things that she didnt know were  bought  on Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) terms.
Background
Miss P had an account with Shop Direct  that meant that she could make purchases with an 
online retailer on credit.  She entered into the credit agreement in February 2018.
Miss P ordered a phone  charger and watch but said that she didnt know they were 
purchased using Shop Directs BNPL offer. She said that she was making monthly payments 
but thinks that it was unfair that her payments werent taken off her balance.  She complained  
that she never received statements in the post or emails or reminders.  So she was surprised 
when she received a text message letting  her know interest was being added  to her account.
Miss P complained to Shop Direct, who didnt uphold her complaint. They said that Miss P 
had made  purchases  online and chosen to pay using BNPL. Shop Direct said that Miss Ps 
account was set to receive online statements and that she had been sent emails  to let her 
know when each statement was ready.  Shop Direct say that their records show  that Miss P 
accessed her online  account at various times including  accessing her statement twice  in 
January 2019.  They  said the terms of her agreement clearly  explained  how the interest  
would be charged.
Miss P was not happy  with the response  from Shop  Direct and brought her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter for Miss P but didnt  uphold  her complaint. 
He looked at the way the purchase was made, and the information on the account  
statements. He thought this showed  that it should  have  been clear to Miss P that shed 
purchased the items on BNPL terms. He also looked  at the way the interest was added and 
thought that it had been done in line with the terms and conditions of the credit  agreement. 
Miss P didnt agree that this was fair and felt that Shop Direct should have done more  to let 
her know  that the payment was due - like sending her statements in the post as well as 
reminders by email. She has asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman and it 
has been passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that Shop Direct have treated Miss P unfairly, and wont  be upholding  Miss Ps 
complaint. I know this will be disappointing  for Miss P, but Ill explain  why Ive come  to this 
decision.
Miss P opened her account  with Shop  Direct in February 2018 when she purchased  two 
items. Her account  shows  that these items were bought using the BNPL  offer. The BNPL  
offer is described in the credit  agreement that Miss P signed.  It explains that interest is 
accrued on the items each month, but that it doesnt get added to the amount owed, as long 
as the purchases  are paid for in full by the agreed date. The terms explain that if payment is 
not made by the due date,  then the full interest will be added  from the date the purchases 
Ref: DRN78405262were made. I think that the terms were clearly  explained. Miss P did not pay for the 
purchased items before the date payment was due. I think that Shop Direct added  interest  in 
the way their terms explained. So I dont  think that Shop Direct did anything wrong in this.
In the case of the purchases Miss P is unhappy  about, the items didnt need to be paid for 
until March 2019.  Her statements explain what was owed and when the payment was 
needed in order  to avoid interest  charges. Her statements show that Miss P didnt make any 
payments to her Shop Direct account  until December 2018. Miss P explains that she didnt 
know that the items were bought on a BNPL basis. But if that were  the case  I think  she 
would at least have  expected to have been making  payments for the items straight  away. 
That she didnt make any payments makes  me think that Miss P most likely understood that 
she didnt have to pay for the items  until later.
In May 2018, Miss P made further purchases  that were  credited to her Shop Direct  account. 
These items  were also purchased using  the BNPL offer, and payment was not due on those 
items until December 2018. Having looked at Miss Ps account  statements I think  they 
clearly show the different  amounts  on both BNPL options including  the dates that payments 
were due in order  to avoid paying  interest  on the different purchases. In December 2018,  
Miss P did not pay the balance for the purchases she made  in May. Shop Direct added the 
interest to Miss Ps account  and Miss P started to make  the payments by instalments. 
Miss P hasnt challenged  the way the interest  was added on those purchases, yet they were 
purchased in the same way. I think that this makes it more  likely that she should have 
understood how interest would be added, if items  bought this way were not paid for in time.
Miss P has complained  that she wasnt given fair notice that payment was due or that 
interest would  be added.  She explained that her emails were hacked, which was obviously 
not her fault.  In looking at this complaint though, I need to consider whether Shop Direct  
treated Miss P unfairly or unreasonably. She was emailed every month from February 2018 
until March 2019  to let her know that her statements were online. I have not been shown 
anything to indicate that the issue with Miss Ps email meant  that she wouldnt have seen 
any of those emails over the course of that time. Nor have I seen anything to indicate that 
Shop Direct were made aware that Miss P had an issue with her email  account. So I cant  
say that Shop Direct  acted unfairly or unreasonably  by contacting  Miss P in that way.
Miss P has said that she should also have been sent statements in the post. Shop Direct 
have said that Miss Ps account was set up to receive online statements. She didnt  opt to 
receive postal statements  until January  2019.  I cant say that Shop Direct treated Miss P 
unfairly in not sending  statements by post when she hadnt opted to receive  them. From 
what Shop  Direct have  shown me I believe  that Miss P accessed  her online account 
including looking at her statements. So I think its likely  that she will have seen some, if not 
all of her statements. All of her statements showed what she owed on BNPL and when to 
pay it to avoid interest, in a way that I think was fairly explained.
Miss P thought that the payments she made  should  have  been taken off the amount she 
owed for the original  BNPL purchases. Her statements show that the payments she was 
making from December 2018 were  being  made against the part of her debt that was, at that 
stage, adding monthly interest  to her account.  Her credit agreement  with Shop Direct 
explained how her payments  would be treated and I think  her payments were treated in line 
with that. When those payments were made Miss P still had the option of avoiding paying  
the interest on her BNPL purchases that had not yet become due. So I think  it was fair that 
Shop Direct didnt  use her payments to reduce that part of her debt at that stage.
Ref: DRN78405263For the reasons  I have  given I dont think that Shop  Direct have been unfair or unreasonable. 
I think that they did enough  to make it clear that the purchases were made on BNPL  terms, 
and when that period ended. I can understand that Miss P has ended up paying more  
interest on her purchases than she expected  and the impact  this has had on her. I think  the 
advice she was given  by Shop Direct  about  seeking independent debt management help 
was fair, and I would  recommend that Miss P considers seeking  help if she still needs it.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7840526