K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  has allowed a 
fraudster to carry out transactions on her account.   It has also closed  her account and 
recorded adverse  credit  information.
Miss B is represented in this complaint by her mother  Ms B  but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as if made directly by Miss B.
background
Miss B says she last used  her card for her account  on 17th May 2017 at a local ATM.   She 
didnt need to use it again until 7th June  some  weeks later.   But it was at this point that she 
says she realised it was missing.
When she tried to log onto online banking, she says she was unable  to do so as the mobile 
number on the account had been  changed.  So, she went into a local branch and spoke to 
staff there.
She says this is when  she realised  that during the period  in which  she had not accessed  her 
account, fraudsters  had managed to do so.  There had been  numerous debits and credits 
and the account had since  fallen  into an overdraft.
Miss B complained about the use of her account and the debt now left by the overdraft   but 
Halifax did not uphold  her complaint.  It said it was holding her liable for the overdrawn debt - 
it then closed her account and recorded  an adverse marker against  her name.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service where  our adjudicator looked into matters  for 
her.  He  (the adjudicator) carried out a thorough investigation into the disputed  transactions  
and how they might have  been carried out by a fraudster.   
Due to the nature of the activity on the account  as well as Miss Bs submissions, he 
wondered whether Miss B had been convinced to allow her account  to be used  by a third 
party in order for them  to launder money  through it  a term more commonly referred  to as a 
money mule.  But Miss B was adamant that this wasnt the case and that she was an honest  
victim of fraud.
The adjudicators investigation led to him not upholding Miss Bs complaint either  so she 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Broadly speaking, my reasons are very much the same as the adjudicator and Im not sure 
what more I can helpfully add.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 say that Halifax can hold Miss B liable for the 
transactions  and therefore the overdrawn  amount   if the evidence suggests  thats  is more  
likely than not that she either made  or authorised them herself.
Ref: DRN72826582The evidence I have  seen  leads me to conclude that she did either make or authorise these 
transactions.  I say that for the following reasons:
-Some of the transactions required Miss Bs card and PIN.  Halifaxs  evidence shows  
her genuine card was used as well as the correct  PIN.  Miss Bs account as to how 
her PIN might have  been compromised changed  during the course of this complaint 
and I find her submissions lack any credibility.
-The credits to Miss Bs account  would have required  the fraudster to have knowledge 
of her account number as well as her sort code.  These details are not shown on the 
card which  Miss B says she lost  so its difficult to see how a third party would have 
accessed her account without  her divulging these details.
-The phone number  on the account  was indeed changed  but this alteration  was 
carried out through Miss Bs online  banking.   In order to access her online banking,  
the fraudster would need to know a number of security details  and again, it is 
difficult to see how a third party would have knowledge of these without Miss B 
divulging them.
-One of the withdrawals, which was carried out in a financial services outlet, required 
proof of the account holder before the money  was released.  Miss Bs passport was 
provided as proof of identification. She does not suggest that her passport was lost or 
stolen.  Her submissions are that she simply was not there  and has no idea how her 
passport was presented.  Again, this account  lacks credibility.
-The evidence from Halifax suggests that online banking was accessed  throughout 
the period of the disputed  transactions   therefore  its likely  that Miss B would have 
seen the movement on her account  but failed  to alert Halifax.  
So, in summary,  I think it is more likely than not that Miss B either made these transactions 
on her account herself or allowed them to happen.   Either way, I think  it is fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to hold her liable  for the remaining debt left on the account.
As already explained by the adjudicator   I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in allowing 
the account to go into overdraft and the marker recorded is a fair and reasonable approach.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7282658