K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  (Moneybarn) was of an unsatisfactory  quality.
background
On 12 July 2018, Mrs D took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to cover the 
cost of a used car. On 1 August 2018 she told the dealership shed  got the car from that the 
air-conditioning (AC) wasnt  working properly and the engine management light (EML) had 
come on. 
Mrs D got a report from an independent  garage  on 6 August 2018, which  said there were 
faults with the AC, and the EML needed further  investigation. Mrs D told Moneybarn  about 
the problems with her car on 17 August 2018. 
The dealership attempted  to repair Mrs Ds car but, on 25 October 2018, Mrs D told 
Moneybarn that the car wasnt fixed  the AC still wasnt working, there  was a fuel smell in 
the heater  and there were  issues  with the steering. Moneybarn arranged for an independent 
engineer to inspect  Mrs Ds car. This didnt happen  until 27 February  2019  and the 
independent engineer said:
The breather pipe had been detached  for some  time, there was an associated oil 
leak, and oil was leaking onto the exhaust. This was causing  the fuel smell.
While  the AC had no visible damage, defects or leaks, it wasnt  working  properly.
There were  no issues  with the steering, and the EML wasnt lit.
The engineer said it was very unlikely the breather pipe/oil leak issue was present when Mrs 
D bought the car, and said the car was of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  So 
Moneybarn didnt think they needed  to do anything.
Mrs D was still unhappy and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator thought any reasonable person would expect the AC to be working  when 
they bought a car for almost £10,000. Because the independent engineer said the AC still 
wasnt working in February  2019,  the adjudicator said the car was of an unsatisfactory  
quality at the point of sale. And because the dealership had been given the opportunity to fix 
this, the adjudicator also said Mrs D should  be allowed to reject the car. 
He recommended that Moneybarn unwind the original agreement and refund Mrs D her 
deposit, plus interest; refund her 10% of the payments shed made  to Moneybarn; remove 
any adverse credit history  from her credit file; and pay her £250 for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  been caused.
Moneybarn didnt agree  with the adjudicator. They dont  believe that the fault with the AC 
means the car wasnt  of a satisfactory  quality and doesnt justify the car being rejected. So 
theyve asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and make  a final decision.
Ref: DRN75537022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In considering this complaint Ive had 
regard to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules,  guidance  and standards, 
and codes of practice;  and (where  appropriate)  what I consider was good industry practice  at 
the time.
Mrs D was supplied with the car under  a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement which means were  able to look into complaints  about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  be of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if not, as the supplier  of goods,  Moneybarn are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory given 
the price,  description  and other relevant circumstances. 
In this case, this would include things  like the age and mileage at the time of sale;  and the 
vehicles history. The quality of the goods  also includes their general state and condition; 
and other  things like their fitness  for purpose, appearance  and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability. Durability  means that the components within the car must  last 
a reasonable amount of time.
When Mrs D took possession  of the car, it was around 6 years old and had done 53,334 
miles. Id expect some wear and tear in a vehicle  of that age and mileage. But I think any 
reasonable person would expect the car to be safe;  driveable and without any significant 
undisclosed mechanical issues. 
So, if I thought  the car was faulty when Mrs D took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, Itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
Theres no dispute there were some  issues with the car. Mrs D had reported issues  with the 
EML, the smell of fuel and the steering. But the crux of this complaint is the issues with the 
AC, and whether this means the car was of a satisfactory quality or not.
Ive seen the independent engineers  report of 27 February 2019.  This says that on 
functioning the air conditioning  we found  this to be ineffective due to ambient temperature 
emitting through the heater vents  when the temperate setting  was set to low. So, 
essentially, the AC was only working when  switched on fully  itd gone  from having  a 
functioning range of temperatures  to having  two effective  settings   off and high.
The engineer also says that fault codes  were present as follows: P0530 refrigerant 
pressure sensor which was historic.  Having investigated this fault code, it relates to issues 
with the AC and can result in the EML being lit. 
So the engineer found the AC wasnt working,  and that this was an historic  issue  which 
would cause the EML to come on. And, within 30 days of taking possession of the car, Mrs D 
complained that the AC wasnt working  and the EML was lit. And the dealership tried and 
failed to fix these  issues.
Ref: DRN75537023So, while the independent engineer said the issues with the breather pipe/oil leak werent 
present when Mrs D purchased the car, and there were no issues with the steering; Im in no 
doubt that the AC issues were present when  Mrs D purchased the car. And, despite the 
dealership attempting to repair the AC in 2018,  the fault still remained in February 2019.
So the only question  that remains is whether the fault with the AC makes  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality,  which means  Mrs D has the right to reject this. Moneybarn dont 
believe this is the case.
Mrs D bought a used car, so I wouldnt expect the same quality as Id expect in a brand-new  
car. But I would  expect the car to be free from major defects. And I have  to consider the 
price Mrs D paid for the car - almost  £10,000. The more expensive the car, the fewer minor 
issues Id expect to be present.
Where a £10,000 car is supplied with a major component like AC, given the price paid, a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect there to be a fault (which nobody seems  to be able to get 
to the bottom  of). And I consider  AC that only works  when turned fully up, and not at a lower 
temperature, to be a fault. And this fault is historic and results  in the EML lighting up. 
Because with Mrs Ds car was supplied with a fault in a major component,  Im in agreement 
with the adjudicator that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  And, 
because the dealership has already had their opportunity to fix the problem, and they 
havent, I also agree that Mrs D has the right to reject the car.
The AC not working has affected Mrs Ds use of the car  she couldnt  use a significant  
feature of the car that shes paid for, so its fair some of her payments are returned to reflect 
this. And, while it hasnt stopped her from being  able to drive the car, the whole issue  has 
caused Mrs D some inconvenience  shes had multiple trips to the dealership to try and ger 
this repaired, and she hasnt been able to do so. 
So, I think that the recommendations made by the adjudicator are reasonable and are in line 
with what Id normally award in circumstances like these. 
But Mrs D is also behind in her payments to Moneybarn,  and it wouldnt be fair to say she 
shouldnt pay for a period of time when she had use of the car. So I also think Moneybarn 
should be able to offset these arrears against any refund provided. 
Both Mrs D and Moneybarn have been given  the opportunity to comment on this specific 
change to the investigators  recommended  remedy. And neither of them has objected to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited must
unwind the agreement  and collect the vehicle  at no extra cost to Mrs D;
refund  the deposit paid plus 8% simple  interest added,  from date of payment to
date of refund;
refund  10% of all monthly payments received for impaired use;
if applicable, remove any adverse credit  history from Mrs Ds credit  file; and
compensate Mrs D with £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN75537024But Moneybarn No.1 Limited can also deduct  90% of the value of any monthly repayment 
arrears (90% because  10% of any payments that shouldve been paid wouldve been  
refunded to Mrs D) from the above.  The remaining arrears should  then be written off.
And, if the above  is less than 90% of the current  arrears,  then the current arrears should be 
reduced by 10% and then further reduced by the full value  of the above.  Moneybarn would 
then be free to pursue Mrs D for any difference.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7553702