K820x#14complaint
Mr L says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2009. The policy  gave Mr L accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  It was taken out at the same time as Mr L applied for his 
credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr L says the adviser told him his application  was unlikely to be approved  without 
PPI so he felt pressured to buy it. But I havent  found any other evidence that Mr L 
had any direct contact with the bank during the sale. The banks records  and the 
copy of his credit agreement show he applied online. He electronically selected  PPI 
and electronically  signed a separate  section on his credit agreement  to confirm he 
wanted it. So overall, I think NatWest made it clear  to Mr L the PPI was optional  and 
he agreed to take it out.  
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr L to decide  whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was sick or lost 
his job. 
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mr L all the information about the PPI that he 
needed before he made his decision.  But Mr L chose to take out the policy  and so 
appears to have wanted this type of cover.  He wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. Mr L had a pre-existing medical condition but this policy 
didnt exclude  such conditions. And the policy was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable.  At the time Mr L had savings worth less than three  months 
salary and was entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to his work benefits  and for up to 12 months. And it 
wouldve allowed him to use his savings to cover  other living  expenses  whilst not 
working  or to keep them intact for his future needs. So based on his circumstances 
at the time of this sale, I think it unlikely Mr L wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Ref: DRN77418012NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  NatWest  didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7741801