K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 8 October  2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  My provisional decision sets out the 
background of this complaint. It explains why I thought the PPI policy  was not mis-sold, 
but Barclays had to pay back some of the cost of the PPI.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
22 October 2019. Barclays said it had no further  information to add. Mr Cs representatives 
confirmed theyd received the decision, but they didnt add anything  more.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before and for the same reasons.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73721002COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 1998. 
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have  not found  that this policy was mis-sold,  because:
Mr Cs credit card application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained  what it was for and what it 
cost, then it offered  him the choice  to take PPI or turn it down.  Both options were equally 
prominent. The box to buy PPI was ticked and the one to turn it down  was left blank, and Mr C 
signed the application to confirm his choices. He then returned it by post in his own time. So 
I think  that Barclays  made  it clear  Mr C didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand why he might no longer remember  this after so long.
Barclays  didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. It did 
have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here,  Mr C chose to take out the policy, which indicates  he wanted this type of cover. It 
looks like Mr C was eligible  for the policy. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Cs sick pay 
and it covered him for much  longer.  And he doesnt seem to have had any other significant  cover 
in case he lost his job.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, there were two medical  conditions that Mr C may have had the 
time, which might  not have been covered. Barclays questioned how the conditions  mightve 
affected his ability to work, and we asked his representatives. But despite chasing them,  his 
representatives have not given us any details. So for instance, its not clear  when these  
conditions were  diagnosed or whether they were  even  relevant to the time of the sale. Weve not 
been given any indication that they significantly  affected Mr Cs day-to-day life or ability  to work, 
or that they ever caused him to take any significant time off. Its worth bearing  in mind that the 
PPI was there to cover extended time off work, and Ive not been told anything which  makes it 
seem likely that Mr Cs conditions  wouldve caused that.
Mr C originally told us he didnt consider  himself to have  any health problems. He later explained 
that this was because he didnt think these conditions  would be relevant. So it doesnt sound like 
the conditions wouldve been a key concern for Mr C in buying  the policy. Further, the policy  
covered time off work for other conditions, or if Mr C lost his job, and he wasnt affected by any of 
the other main exclusions or limitations.  So it still seems like the policy couldve  been useful for 
Mr C in his circumstances.  And so I dont think that better information was likely  to have put him 
off taking it out.
This means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN73721003But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays  got a high level of commission  and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should  have  told Mr C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold  which would mean Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But I do think  Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont plan to 
award any further compensation. 
Please could  Mr C and Barclays send me any more information or comments  to look at by
22 October 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7372100