K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that after completing an account switch from Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading 
as Halifax) to another bank, payments were debited  from his account. As a result, Halifax 
didnt close Mr As account as expected. Mr A complains that Halifax didnt contact him about  
the outstanding balance  and reported  negative information to the credit  reference agencies. 
Background
Mr A applied to switch his Halifax current account  to a new bank in December 2018. 
But shortly  after the switch went through a merchant claimed  a payment of £151.99. Halifax 
says it messaged and wrote to Mr A about the outstanding balance  on 11 December  2018  
and again 20 December 2018 asking  him to repay it. 
In January 2019 Mr A contacted Halifax and complained about the outstanding balance.  
Halifax responded on 22 January 2019 but didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Halifax  said that 
the £151.99 payment wasnt included in the account switch because  of the way the 
merchant had claimed it. Mr A referred his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. He didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and said 
the £151.99 payment had been  claimed  after the account switch process had gone through.  
The investigator thought it was likely that another transaction  with the same merchant had 
been cancelled  then recompleted for a slightly lower amount, which had led to a delay in the 
payment being  debited. The investigator said Halifax had tried to contact Mr A about the 
outstanding balance and the information  it reported  on his credit file was correct. 
In response, Mr A said he was unaware  that there was an outstanding balance as he didnt 
receive any letters from Halifax.  Mr A says he wasnt aware that a merchant could claim a 
payment after the account switch had gone through. As Mr A didnt  agree  with the 
investigator his complaint  has been  passed  to me to make a decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This issue came about when a payment to a merchant was claimed  after the account switch 
went through. The merchant originally started to claimed a payment of £158.99 on 
3 December 2018 but that didnt go through and the funds that had been earmarked were  
released back into the account  and transferred to Mr As new account. On 10 December 
2018, after the switch had gone through, the merchant claimed a payment of £151.99  and 
Halifax paid it. Thats why there was an outstanding balance despite  the switch  completing. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I havent found anything to show  Halifax has made a mistake  
in the way it processed payments during his account  switch.  Halifax was acting on the 
instructions of the merchant when it provisionally held £158.99 from 3 December 2018 but 
when the full payment wasnt claimed  the funds were released  back  into the account.  Halifax 
received a follow up request for a £151.99 payment after the switch  had gone through.  
I havent found anything to show Halifax made a mistake by approving the payment.  
Ref: DRN77001692Mr A has told us he wasnt aware of the outstanding balance  on his account  and didnt 
receive any letters from Halifax  asking  him to repay  it. But Halifax  sent in copies of two 
letters it sent Mr A. The first was sent on 11 December 2018  and the second  on 
20 December 2018. Whilst  I note Mr A says he didnt receive these letters, I have to take into 
account that they were correctly addressed and the systems evidence shows they were 
sent. I think its more likely  than not that Halifaxs letters were  sent as claimed  and delivered. 
Im satisfied Halifax took the necessary  steps  to tell Mr A about the outstanding balance  on 
his account after the switch went through.  
Halifax says it also sent Mr A messages to his online banking facility.  Mr A says because his 
Halifax current account had been  closed he didnt receive  the messages either. But Mr A 
had more than one Halifax account and its sent in evidence of the messages it sent. I can 
see that on 11 December  2018 and 20 December  2018 Halifax sent Mr A messages telling 
him his account  was overdrawn. Whilst Mr A doesnt  appear to have opened those 
messages, I can see he opened  a savings account statement which  was sent to him on 
25 December 2018. Im satisfied Mr A still had access to his online banking  messages at this 
time. 
Mr A says Halifax  has registered unfair information  with the credit reference agencies.  
But the outstanding balance wasnt repaid until April 2019, around  three  months after Mr A 
complained and around four months after Halifax first wrote to him. Halifax issued its final 
response to Mr As complaint on 22 January 2019 and said he needed to take steps  to repay  
the outstanding balance.  I understand he remained unhappy with Halifaxs  decision, but Im 
satisfied it gave Mr A clear information about  what happened and what  he needed to pay. 
Whilst I appreciate the date the balance was repaid  led to some negative information  on 
Mr As credit  file, it does reflect the way the account was settled. 
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr A but, for the reasons  Ive given above, I havent 
found anything  to show Halifax made  a mistake when it processed  payments on his account 
and Im satisfied it sent him clear information about  the outstanding balance.  The information 
on Mr As credit file is accurate so Im not telling Halifax to change it. As Im satisfied Halifax 
has dealt with Mr As complaint fairly,  Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7700169