K820x#14complaint
Mr G had a buy to let mortgage  with NRAM  Limited.  He complained  that:
-NRAM was aggressive  and unhelpful  in its approach and wouldnt agree an amicable 
solution, and created  obstacles causing possession litigation to go ahead;
-NRAM hadnt told him about the litigation;
-NRAM didnt treat him fairly.
background
Mr G took a buy to let mortgage with NRAM in June 2005. It was on an interest only basis,  
so the balance didnt reduce. It was for a 10 year term, so Mr G would have to pay back the 
whole balance in June 2015.
NRAM wrote  to Mr G in 2011, four years before the end of the mortgage term, to remind  him 
that hed have to repay the full balance when the term ended on 28 June 2015. It gave 
options and asked him to get in touch if paying it all back  was likely to be a problem.
Mr G didnt repay his mortgage when it was due.
NRAM wrote  to him in August 2015.  It issued a Formal Demand letter about a year later,  in 
July 2016. This said that if Mr G failed to pay by 19 July, NRAM may (without further  
warning) enforce the security we hold, take legal proceedings against you for recovery of the 
amounts owed to us, and/or pursue any other remedies available  to us.
NRAM sent another Formal Demand letter in November 2016.  
And in January 2017, NRAM wrote again saying that as it hadnt received payment, it was 
going to have a Charge for Payment served on Mr G. NRAMs letter  set out what this 
would involve. The options NRAM would be able to take included action which would mean  
he wouldnt  be able to sell properties; any earnings  from employment  could be arrested 
and so could his bank account.
In March 2017, Mr G rang to complain about the actions which NRAM had taken. He 
mentioned that he was now living  abroad.  Mr G said hed told NRAM about  this, but NRAM 
said Mr G had never told it about  his change of address. 
On 3 August,  NRAMs solicitors wrote to Mr G. They sent him a document  to complete about 
voluntary possession of the property. But NRAMs solicitors wrote  again on 2 October, 
because the document Mr G sent back was a copy, and hadnt been correctly  witnessed. 
The letter said the property  would be taken into possession on 16 October. It went on to say 
that it understood Mr G agreed to NRAM taking possession  and it said possession could 
be avoided by agreeing an acceptable arrangement.  If Mr G wanted  to discuss  this, he 
should get in touch  urgently. Possession  of Mr Gs buy to let property went  ahead  on 16 
October.
Mr G complained to this service on 23 October.
The adjudicator clarified which parts of Mr Gs complaint this service  could and couldnt look 
at. He explained that we couldnt look at everything Mr G had complained  to us about. That 
was because Mr G hadnt brought it to us within the permitted time limits, from when hed 
Ref: DRN72330872had NRAMs replies.  So the adjudicator set out what we can consider. Those were the three 
points Ive listed in the complaint section of this decision.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the parts  of Mr Gs complaint which  we can look at. He pointed  
out that Mr G had taken  a 10 year mortgage,  and as Mr G didnt pay it back  at the end of the 
agreed term, he was in breach of the contract. NRAM  had tried to contact Mr G to remind 
him about the end of the mortgage term  and Mr G would have known from the outset that 
hed have to pay it back by June 2015.  Mr G had complained that NRAM didnt  let him 
voluntarily surrender his property. But the adjudicator said that if Mr G had sent back  an 
original form, correctly  witnessed, when the solicitors sent it to him in August 2017, Mr G 
would probably  have been  able to go ahead with the voluntary surrender.
Mr G wasnt satisfied. He said that NRAM hadnt told the adjudicator about the conversation  
where the solicitors  had reassured him theyd wait for him to send the correct form. And 
theyd then gone back on this  nor had he been told it wasnt  acceptable because it was a 
copy. The adjudicator replied that the key point was that Mr G had agreed to repay  his 
mortgage by June 2015 and hadnt done so.
Mr G wasnt satisfied. He said the adjudicator  was biased because he hadnt seen the form 
that Mr G had sent to NRAMs  solicitors.  Mr G said the key point of his complaint was that 
hed said right at the start that he wanted  to hand over the property voluntarily. But NRAM 
had put obstacles in his way and had ignored his requests  to do this. Mr G believed  all that 
was needed was an amicable arrangement about how he could repay  the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The evidence  Ive looked at includes an 
additional document which I requested from NRAM  a copy  of the form which  Mr G sent 
NRAMs solicitors  about voluntary possession.
Ive looked at the three parts of Mr Gs complaint.
Whether NRAM was aggressive  and unhelpful in its approach and wouldnt agree an 
amicable solution,  and created obstacles  causing  possession litigation to go ahead
Ive seen no evidence  that NRAM was aggressive  or unhelpful. The letters which  NRAM and 
its solicitors sent were clear and factual. Theyre about the undisputed fact that Mr G was 
contractually bound to repay his interest only mortgage by June 2015, and didnt do so. The 
letters asked  him to get in touch and set out what would happen if he didnt.
The letters which NRAM sent to Mr G from June  2015 onwards  went to the address it had on 
file for him. The evidence  conflicts here.  Mr G says hed told NRAM that hed moved abroad,  
and NRAM said he didnt.  Where evidence conflicts,  I make  my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have  happened.  Here,  I consider its unlikely  that Mr G did tell NRAM hed 
moved abroad. I say that because what NRAM wanted was to get Mr G to repay his 
mortgage when  he was supposed to in June 2015.  So I dont consider NRAM would have 
kept on writing to an old address if it had a new address for Mr G  because it wanted  to get 
in touch with him, to get him to pay what he owed.
And I consider that if Mr G had notified  NRAM  of his change of address, but then hadnt  
received any correspondence like annual statements, he should have chased NRAM to find 
Ref: DRN72330873out what had gone wrong.  He knew when he took on the mortgage  that he had to repay it in 
June 2015. So he should reasonably have expected to get letters  after he didnt repay it. If 
he didnt hear anything,  and really had told NRAM about his new address, he should have 
got in touch with the lender to talk about the mortgage.
So I find that Mr G didnt  let NRAM know hed moved abroad until March 2017. He told 
NRAM as a result of NRAM taking action.  That was nearly two years  after he should have 
paid off the balance. If Mr G wanted an amicable  solution,  I consider he should  have  
started talking to NRAM long before that. 
When Mr G says NRAM wouldnt agree an amicable solution and creating obstacles,  he 
appears to be talking about  NRAM  taking  possession  in October 2017, instead of the 
voluntary possession which had been discussed  shortly before. NRAMs solicitors gave Mr G 
the chance to hand  over the property  as shown  in the 3 August 2017 letter.
Ive obtained and considered the document which Mr G sent back to NRAM about voluntarily 
giving up the property. NRAM never  received  the original, only a copy, which wasnt 
acceptable. Another reason why it wasnt acceptable was that Mr G was living  abroad   but 
the stated address of the person said to have witnessed the document was in the UK. So I 
understand and accept  why NRAM was concerned about the validity  of the document.
So I dont  consider that NRAM  refused  an amicable  solution, or created obstacles causing  
possession litigation to go ahead. When Mr G finally got in touch with NRAM, It had been 
nearly two years since he should  have paid off the mortgage. It wasnt  surprising that the 
lender had decided to go for possession by then. And yet the lender did still offer an 
opportunity to avoid  possession   its even in NRAMs solicitors letter of 2 October  2017, 
after Mr G hadnt satisfactorily returned  the form.
Whether NRAM told Mr G about the litigation
Ive read the letters which  NRAM sent to Mr G from June 2015  onwards. These started  by 
asking Mr G to get in touch about paying  off the money he owed, and when NRAM didnt get 
a reply, progressed to talking about  litigation.
These letters were sent to the address that NRAM had on file for Mr G. As Ive set out 
above, I find that Mr G didnt tell NRAM when he moved  abroad. So the lender had no way 
of knowing that it wasnt writing to Mr Gs correct address.  
So I find that NRAM tried its best to tell Mr G about  the pending litigation. These letters  also 
made it clear  that the lender didnt have to give any further warning to enforce the security.  
So NRAM  did as much as it had to do, and I find it didnt do anything wrong.
Whether NRAM treated  Mr G fairly
As Ive set out above, I consider that NRAM did as much as it needed to by writing multiple 
letters to Mr Gs registered address. There were  opportunities  for Mr G to have got in touch 
with NRAM over the years after June  2015,  to try and work out a solution. 
Mr G knew from the time he took out the mortgage that hed have to pay it off in June 2015. 
But he didnt  get in touch with NRAM to talk about  a solution, and he didnt tell the lender 
hed moved abroad. And he didnt  get in touch  in March 2017, after NRAM had issued  a 
Charge for Payment  which  had a practical  impact on him. 
Ref: DRN72330874Mr G was over two years late in repaying the mortgage by the time NRAM proceeded to 
possession. It was a commercial buy-to-let mortgage, not a residential one, and theres  
generally less leeway on a commercial mortgage.. Mr G didnt properly  complete the form for 
voluntary surrender. Mr G says that all that was needed was an amicable arrangement  about  
how he could repay the money. But after that length of time, when Mr G hadnt co-operated 
with NRAM, the time for an amicable arrangement had passed.  And theres no evidence that 
Mr G suggested this at the relevant time when it could have made  a difference. So I find that 
NRAM acted fairly  in proceeding to possession,  and acted fairly in the way it treated Mr G.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7233087