K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains Aviva Insurance  Limited unfairly  declined a claim for storm damage under 
her home insurance policy. 
background
In March 2018 Ms F made  a claim for damage to her roof that she thought  had been caused  
as a result  of a storm. She also claimed  for damage to the ceiling and internal walls of the 
property, caused  as a result  of rainwater coming in through the roof. 
Aviva declined the claim as it thought the bad weather had highlighted an existing problem 
with the roof, rather than being  the main cause of the damage.  Ms F complained to Aviva  but 
it didnt agree to change  its mind.
Our investigator thought there had been storm conditions at the time Ms F reported the 
damage. But he still didnt think the claim should be covered  as he thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably in saying the storm wasnt the main  cause of the damage.  So he didnt think 
Aviva needed to cover the claim. He noted  Aviva  had offered to pay for the internal  repairs to 
the ceiling  and the walls and thought this was fair.
Ms F didnt accept what the investigator said. She said the evidence  provided by her own 
roofing contractor had been disregarded in favour of Aviva. She also said Aviva had left her 
in a difficult position as she couldnt  start the internal repairs until the problem with the roof 
had been fixed. 
As Ms F didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the damage  occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with that typically caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we say the claim should succeed.  But, if 
the answer to any of the above  questions is no  the claim wont  succeed under  this 
section.
Ms F says there were three storms in her area in January. And Aviva  has accepted this was 
the case, so I havent considered this point further.  
Aviva says the nature of the damage isnt consistent  with that typically caused by a storm. 
So it thinks  its more likely  as a result  of wear and tear. When making a claim,  it is for the 
policyholder, so in this case Ms F, to show that her property has suffered damage caused  by 
an insured event. 
Ref: DRN78802242Based on everything  Ive seen I dont think Ms F has shown  this, so I think Aviva has acted  
reasonably in declining the claim for storm damage  to her roof. Ms F said the damage must 
have been caused by a storm because her roof was well maintained, and her roofer had 
replaced twenty five slate tiles two years previously. Avivas contractor couldnt  be sure 
where the water was coming into the property from. He thought it could have been through a 
crack in the lead gutter than ran between Ms F and her neighbours roof. But he did note he 
couldnt see a crack  in this. 
Ms Fs roofer  said the rainwater has got in through gaps in the tiles, caused by several tiles 
becoming displaced.  Ive looked  at the pictures provided of Ms Fs roof, and it seems to me 
that most  of the displaced tiles were  actually on her neighbours roof, rather  than hers.  I can 
see some  cracked tiles on her side of the roof. But I dont think Aviva has been 
unreasonable in saying  it thinks  this damage is more likely caused  by wear and tear. It says 
the likely  cause is delamination of the tiles over time, which  can weaken them and happens  
as the tiles age, rather  than the result of a one-off weather event. Whilst I accept  Ms F has 
replaced tiles in previous years, on balance I dont think its likely the nature of the damage is 
consistent with that of a storm. Or that it was the main cause of the damage.
So I think Aviva  has acted  reasonably in declining  the claim for storm damage to the roof. 
But I can see its accepted it would pay for the internal damage the storm had caused.  This 
is because Aviva was satisfied that Ms F didnt  know  there  was a problem with her roof until 
she noticed damage to the inside of her property. So I think  Aviva has been  reasonable in 
agreeing to pay for the internal repairs. 
Ms F has said shes now had the roof repaired. But its not clear  if Ms F has had the internal  
repairs carried out or not. Aviva has said it hasnt heard from Ms F in relation to the internal 
works. So if Ms F hasnt  completed those, Aviva  needs to get in touch to arrange a visit to 
Ms Fs property. If Ms F has paid for the internal repairs to be carried  out herself: she needs  
to provide Aviva with an invoice for the repair costs. Aviva should then reimburse Ms F what  
it would  have cost its contractors to carry out the internal works on her property.
my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  doesnt need to pay for the damage to     
Ms Fs roof. But it has said it will carry out the internal repair works it had previously agreed 
to do. Or if Ms F has paid for these herself,  it will reimburse her what  it would have cost it to 
do the works. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7880224