K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about issues she experienced when she ordered a sofa and chair from 
Next Retail  Limited.
background
In February 2018  Miss A placed an order on her credit account for items including  a sofa and 
chair. At the time of placing the order the credit  limit on Miss As account  was £3,750.
Miss A arranged delivery for late March  2018.  In anticipation of delivery she sold her existing 
sofa.
When Miss As order was delivered  the sofa and chair were  missing. Miss A contacted Next 
who told her that the items werent  in stock and would need  to be re-ordered.
Next re-ordered the items  and told Miss A that delivery would take around 6 weeks.  It then 
came to light that the original order hadnt  been  removed from the system resulting in the re-
order exceeding the credit  limit on Miss Aa account. Next contacted Miss A and told her 
shed exceeded  the credit limit. It subsequently  realised  the error and removed the initial 
order from the system. Next arranged  for a loan sofa to be delivered to Miss A in late March 
2018. 
On 10 April 2018 Next reduced Miss As credit  limit to £1500. Miss A contacted Next. She 
says she was told that the reduction  in her credit limit wouldnt affect the sofa she had 
ordered. Miss A subsequently received a text from Next telling  her that the sofa was ready 
for delivery.  But the text also said that shed  have to pay for the sofa before it could be 
released to her because  of the reduction  in her credit limit. 
Miss A complained to Next. When she called to chase  a response to her complaint she was 
told that the sofa was being  released  to her without  requiring payment first. Miss A arranged  
a delivery date at the end of May 2018. Shortly before  the delivery date Next contacted Miss 
A and told her that shed been given  incorrect information and that the order  was being 
cancelled. 
In its final response Next explained  why Miss As credit limit had been reduced. It 
acknowledged that Miss A had received poor service and offered to pay compensation of 
£200.
Miss A remained unhappy and complained  to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said that in relation to the initial, delivery failure,  Nexts  actions  in re-ordering 
the items  and providing a loan sofa in the meantime were reasonable. In relation to the 
reduction in Miss As credit limit the investigator  said that the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed  for increases and decreases  to the credit limit. He said that although  the 
timing of the reduction  in the credit  limit was unfortunate,  it had been reduced  in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account and in response to information which  Next had 
received from a credit reference agency.  The investigator concluded that the offer of 
compensation was reasonable.
Miss A didnt agree. She said shed been  told by Next that because  the failed delivery was 
their fault she would still receive her original order. Miss A said shed spent hours trying to 
resolve the matter  with Next and had taken  time off work with stress.
Ref: DRN70339732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the initial delivery failure  Next has acknowledged that this was caused by an 
error with its stock system. Its unfortunate that Next didnt realise that the sofa wasnt in 
stock prior to the day of delivery because if it had, Miss A might  have decided to keep her 
old sofa a little longer.
However, once the stock  error was discovered,  I think that Next did everything it could to try 
and resolve the issue. This included re-ordering the sofa and providing a loan sofa both of 
which were done  quickly. This is what I would  have expected Next to do in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Miss A has said that the loan sofa wasnt suitable. But she was provided 
with a sofa to use for the duration of the time she was without the sofa shed ordered and 
hasnt been charged for this.
Ive taken into account Miss As concerns about  the re-order  process  and the failure by Next 
to cancel her original order which resulted in her exceeding the credit limit on her account. 
Miss A is worried that this has impacted her credit file. My understanding is that the original 
order was cancelled within 2 days of the failed  delivery and that that exceeding the credit  
limit isnt something which would have been reported on Miss As credit file in these 
circumstances. 
In relation to the reduction in Miss As credit limit, Next has explained that it received 
information from a credit reference agency  which suggested that Miss A was in arrears  with 
another credit provider.  Because of this, it took steps to reduce the amount  of credit 
available to Miss A.
All lenders have  a duty to lend responsibly. Many  lenders  such as Next  will review credit  
files on a regular  basis. The reduction  in a credit limit is a commercial decision for the lender 
and not one with which this service  can interfere.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss As credit account. These say that Next can 
increase/decrease as part of the process of reviewing a consumers credit profile. In this case 
Next has used the information which it obtained from the credit reference agency  to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer to Miss A.
In the circumstances and whilst the timing  of the credit  reduction was unfortunate, Im unable 
to say that Next has acted  unfairly by reducing  the credit limit.
It appears that Miss A was given  conflicting  information when she contacted Next to 
complain about  the reduction in her credit  limit and the delivery  of the sofa. Theres no 
dispute that the failed  delivery  was as a result of an error by Next and I have no reason to 
disbelieve Miss A when  she says she was told that she would received her order  without 
being required to pay first. Unfortunately this information was incorrect. 
Next has acknowledged  its failings in relation to the non delivery  of the original order and in 
relation to the incorrect information which was given to Miss A on the telephone.  Whilst I 
Ref: DRN70339733appreciate that Miss A isnt happy with the level of compensation offered by Next,  Im 
satisfied that the sum of £200 is reasonable taking into account the circumstances  of this 
case.
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont be asking Next to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7033973