K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  about the sale of a loan by The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) in 2015.
 
background
In May 2015  Ms P was sold a loan for £10,000 over five years with an Annual Percentage 
Rate (APR) of 19.3%. Ms P says she was told that the interest  rate could be reviewed in 
six months. She says she thought it was unaffordable at the time but wasnt concerned as 
she had been  told the interest  rate could be reviewed. Around nine months later Ms P began 
to have financial difficulties and was later told that the interest  rate on the loan couldnt be 
reviewed. Ms P would like some or all of the interest  from the loan refunded as she believes 
it was mis-sold.
Ms P had two accidents in the years following the loan and has been on reduced duties at 
work since. Due to her change in circumstances, shes had periods of reduced  income  
(including a long period of unpaid leave). She has also recently been in a road traffic 
accident which has caused her further  health issues.
Ms P worked with RBS in relation to her financial difficulties  and a forbearance plan was able 
to be agreed.  Ms P says she wasnt informed that once this plan ended, the arrears on her 
loan would need to be repaid within 12 months and has been given conflicting  information 
about the plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Neither party has provided me with any contemporaneous evidence from the time the loan 
was taken out so I cant say for certain what was discussed or whether  there  were  any 
misunderstandings from that conversation. But I have considered whether this potential  
incorrect information caused any detriment to Ms P.
Ms P says she was told that her interest  rate could be reviewed in six months   but she 
hasnt said that she was told her interest  rate would be reduced as a result  of that review. So 
even if Ms P was told that her interest  rate would be reviewed, she was still aware that there 
was the possibility the interest rate wouldnt change. And if she had concerns about her 
ability to repay the loan,  I wouldnt  have expected  her to continue  with the application 
knowing that there was the possibility her repayments would never reduce. 
Ive also considered whether this loan was affordable for Ms P at the time she took it out. 
RBS has provided me with details of the income  and expenditure figures it used when Ms P 
took out this loan. Those calculations show that she should have had disposable  income of 
nearly £400 each  month  enough  to cover the new monthly loan repayment  and still be left 
with funds for unexpected events and emergencies. So, I havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest RBS thought  the loan was unaffordable  when  it sold it to Ms P. And taking 
everything into consideration,  Im not satisfied  that any incorrect  information has caused any 
detriment to Ms P, so it follows that I dont  think RBS needs to refund the interest on this 
loan.
Ref: DRN78715842Ms Ps circumstances have changed  considerably since  she took out this loan  and I can 
see shes kept RBS up to date with her situation and has tried to work with it to make 
payments that she can afford. RBS has made  numerous errors in handling Ms Ps account 
while she was in financial difficulties, which  has clearly caused Ms P unnecessary distress.  
RBS has acknowledged  these and apologised. I can also see that it has corrected any 
issues that have  impacted  on Ms P financially  and paid her compensation for the distress it 
has caused, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms P has told us that this matter is causing her a great deal of stress  and of course,  
dealing with financial difficulties  will always be stressful. But looking at what  RBS has now 
done in relation to Ms Ps account,  it is more  than I would have asked it to do. It has 
refunded interest,  put a lengthy  forbearance  plan in place  and held off defaulting the account  
for a long period of time.  Ms P doesnt  want the account to be defaulted  but RBS has 
explained that on this occasion,  it will stop adding interest to the loan once the account is 
defaulted and passed to its recovery agent. So while Ms P would prefer  for the account  not 
to default, she will need to work with RBS to decide the most sensible next steps in her 
current circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871584