K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1998  when she took out a credit card.
background
Mrs C took out a credit card in 1998. She also applied for PPI at the same time.
This policy would  have covered her if she was off work through accident, sickness or if she 
lost her job. It cost £0.77 per £100  of the outstanding balance on her card and would have 
paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months  if she made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with this view 
and asked that an ombudsman look again at the complaint.  So the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs C had a fair choice about  buying the PPI. 
Lloyds has been  able to provide a copy of the completed application form from the time 
Mrs C applied for her card and the PPI policy.
The application form has been completed  with Mrs Cs details and in the section headed 
optional features there is a separate part about the PPI. The box to say she wanted the PPI 
has been ticked. There was also the option to say she didnt want  it. The application has 
been signed and dated. And I note that the PPI appeared on her credit card statements. So 
if she was unsure about it, or didnt know about it she could  have questioned  it with Lloyds. I 
havent seen she has done this. Overall  taking everything into account, I think  she more 
likely chose the PPI knowing she could decline it if she didnt want it - even if its 
understandable if she cant remember doing  so now after such  a long time.
Lloyds has said this will be looked at as if it was a recommended sale.  This put more  
responsibility on Lloyds  as to how it sold the policy and it meant  that it had to make  sure it 
was suitable for her circumstances as well as giving Mrs C enough clear  information so she 
could decide for herself whether or not she wanted the PPI.
Looking at Mrs Cs circumstances and the policy terms  and conditions  I cant say the policy 
was unsuitable  for her.
I say that because she was eligible for the cover  and as she was working and in good health 
at the time, I dont  think she would have been affected by any of the main  limitations and 
exclusions in the policy. So I think its likely  she could have made a successful claim if shed 
needed to.
Ref: DRN78664912Mrs C says she didnt need  the policy. She has told us she had significant  redundancy and 
sick pay from work. But this policy would have paid out for potentially longer than her full sick 
pay lasted and in addition to it. And I can see from the application form she had been in her 
role for a short time - so I dont think she would have got any significant redundancy pay. But 
in any event she could  have used any savings or redundancy  pay she had for other  
important living expenses  if things  went wrong. So I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for 
her and I think it could have been useful  if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think it was unaffordable for her or she had a particular need  to 
keep her costs down.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt give Mrs C all the information it should have done. But thats 
not enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to think whether Mrs C would have  
changed her mind if shed  been  given more or better  information. But as Ive explained I 
think she chose the policy and for much the same  reasons as Ive found  that it was suitable 
for her I dont think she would have  made  a different decision even with more or better 
information.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but I dont  think she lost out financially because  of anything  
Lloyds did wrong  and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7866491