K820x#14complaint
Mr C was not told about his windscreen cover when he took out a car insurance policy with 
Eldon Insurance Services Ltd, trading as GoSkippy.com (Eldon).
background
Mr C obtained him motor insurance policy through Eldon. In May 2018 Mr C chipped his 
windscreen while driving. The size and location  of the chip meant Mr C needed  a 
replacement windscreen.  Because the paperwork hed received from Eldon said no next to 
windscreen cover, Mr C arranged to replace the windscreen himself. This cost him £661.61. 
But when he spoke  to Eldon about  renewing his policy in June 2018, they told him he did 
have windscreen  cover.
Mr C has complained that Eldon misled him about  having windscreen cover.
Our adjudicator found that Eldon hadnt acted reasonably. She felt the paperwork Eldon  sent 
to Mr C when he renewed his policy in June 2017 wasnt clear, and its reasonable that when  
Mr C read this, he assumed he didnt  have windscreen cover.  Although the policy  documents 
made it clear  that Mr C had windscreen  cover, she didnt think  it was reasonable for him to 
read this, or to contact Eldon to check if the cover was in place, when the renewal letter  hed 
received said windscreen cover wasnt included.
Because of this, the adjudicator thought Eldon should refund  Mr C with the cost of the 
windscreen replacement,  in line with the terms of Mr Cs policy, plus interest.  She also 
thought Eldon should pay Mr C an additional  £100  to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience theyd  caused him.
Eldon didnt agree with the adjudicator.  They say it was Mr Cs responsibility to read his 
policy documents and understand the cover hed purchased.  They say the policy documents  
say no to windscreen cover as an optional extra because it was part of the standard cover,  
and Mr C was told this when he phoned to renew. Because of this, they think itd be 
reasonable for Mr C to have called them to check if he has this cover in place before he 
arranged for his windscreen to be replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the renewal  letter Eldon sent Mr C on 5 June  2017. Theres a summary box that 
takes up the whole of the right-hand side of the first page of this letter.  In this box Eldon 
clearly state the premium  Mr C will be paying,  the vehicle hes insuring, and the Optional 
Covers Selected. Under the Optional  Covers, the letter states Windscreen Cover No. In 
the body of the letter itself, Eldon also say You [sic] policy includes the extra benefits listed 
under the additional policies as standard and the inclusive cost for these are shown in our 
terms of business.
Ref: DRN70786552Eldon say that, because Mr C had a comprehensive  policy, windscreen cover was included 
as standard and wasnt an optional extra. I agree  that this wasnt made clear in the 5 June 
2017 renewal  letter. The summary box clearly states that windscreen cover isnt included as 
an optional  cover selected. While the sentence Ive referred to above  indicates there are 
extra benefits, it says these are listed under the additional policies. I wouldnt expect any 
customer to assume that additional policies actually  means  optional  covers selected, and 
where Eldon say Windscreen Cover No they actually mean  Yes. 
Also, the letter refers  to Mr Cs policy excess as being £775 but makes no mention theres a 
separate windscreen excess. Because of this, I agree that the letter was misleading as to 
whether Mr C had windscreen cover  or not. Eldon say Mr C couldve contacted them  to ask 
whether he had windscreen  cover.  Theyve also said that it was clear he had this cover  if he 
read the policy documents, which were available  on a secure  portal. But I wouldnt expect  
Mr C to phone Eldon, or go to a portal and read all the policy documents, on the off chance 
that Windscreen  Cover No was wrong.
Ive also listed to the call on 5 June 2017  when Mr C renewed his insurance policy.  On this 
call, when explaining the costs of renewal, Elson  told him he had a separate  windscreen  
excess of £75. But I still think it was reasonable for Mr C to check the 5 June 2017 letter to 
see whether he had windscreen cover,  rather than rely upon  his vague recollection  of a 
telephone call he made almost a year earlier. 
Mr C arranged for a replacement windscreen himself,  at a cost of £661.61. Given the 
circumstances described above, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to do this. Eldon 
havent said they wouldnt have covered the replacement windscreen if Mr C had contacted 
them to make a claim, so its reasonable for me to conclude they would. Because  of this I 
agree with the adjudicator  that Eldon should refund Mr C the cost of the replacement 
windscreen in line with the terms of their policy i.e. £661.61 less the £75 windscreen excess.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Eldon Insurance Services  Ltd 
must:
Pay Mr C £586.31 plus 8% annual  simple interest  from 3 May 2018 (when Mr C paid 
for the replacement windscreen) to the date of the refund. 
Pay Mr C an additional £100 in recognition of the confusion and inconvenience 
caused by their misleading letter  of 5 June 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7078655