K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Santander  UK Plc when he wanted 
to withdraw £27,000  in cash.
background
Mr H says that in April 2019 he needed £27,000  in cash as a matter  of urgency. He was 
aware Santander normally required 48 hours  notice  before it would allow more than £5,000 
to be withdrawn in cash  but individual branches could permit larger withdrawals, without 
notice, at their discretion.
Mr H telephoned Santanders  customer services and explained he needed the cash  urgently. 
He says he was told he could make the withdrawal at a particular branch on the same  day. 
But when he went to the branch he was told he could only withdraw £5,000  in cash  that day 
and hed need to give 48 hours notice for the balance. Mr H says the branch staff were rude 
and unhelpful.  He telephoned  Santanders customer services while he was at the branch but 
the telephone adviser  was unable to contact  the branch.  He tried to arrange to withdraw the 
cash from another branch but was told this wouldnt be possible.
Mr H says he had to arrange to borrow £22,000  in cash from a member of his family and he 
incurred train and taxi fares because he had to travel  to collect  the money.
Mr H complained to Santander.  It said the branch had acted  correctly  in telling him he 
needed to give 48 hours notice before he could withdraw more than £5,000 in cash. It said it 
couldnt find a call in which  hed been  told he could withdraw the cash  without notice. But it 
accepted hed made the call and had been mis-advised. It paid him £30 for the 
inconvenience this had caused him.
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld because  they didnt  think 
Santander had made an error. Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was aware Santander required 48 hours  notice  before it could allow  him withdraw more 
than £5,000 in cash. I cant reasonably say it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it applied 
that requirement to his request.
Santander has accepted Mr H was incorrectly told by one of its advisers  he would be able to 
withdraw the full amount he wanted  without notice. If Mr H had been given the correct 
information I think he would still have gone  to the branch to withdraw £5,000  in cash.  
Consequently, I dont think he suffered material trouble and upset as a result  of being given 
incorrect information over the telephone. Im satisfied the £30 compensation he has received 
from Santander is sufficient in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN78511302Im not persuaded I could reasonably require Santander to compensate Mr H for the train 
and taxi fares he incurred  when he collected the cash from a member of his family. 
Santander was entitled to require 48 hours  of the withdrawal and the need  for Mr H to travel 
to collect the money arose because he was in a situation where he couldnt give the 
necessary notice.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7851130