K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  has settled a claim under 
her motor insurance policy for less than her car was worth.
background
 
Mrs S husband (a named  driver) was in an incident  in March 2019 and the car was deemed 
to be a total loss. Admiral  offered £56,550  as its final settlement. Mrs S didnt think this was 
enough to replace her car with a similar one so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Admirals valuation was fair and in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mrs S policy. Mrs S didnt agree. She says she isnt able to replace her car 
with one of similar specifications for the amount  Admiral has paid.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs S that Ive thought very carefully about everything shes  said and the 
information provided. But having  done  so, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
My role is not to value  Mrs S car. What I need  to decide is whether Admiral  has settled her 
claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions  of her policy.
Mrs S policy  contains the following term:
2. What we will pay 
We will decide how to settle  your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. ..
.
If we give you a cash sum, the most  we will pay is the market value of the car or 
items claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved  to 
a place of storage as soon as possible.
The policy defines  market  value as:
Market value 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make,  model, year, mileage  and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in 
which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail  value, will not apply if you 
bought your car privately  or at an auction. Non-European manufactured cars will be 
valued based on European import  values or the nearest British equivalent.
Ref: DRN73264582Our services approach  to assessing a fair market  value  takes  into account what  the motor  
trade guides say the market value is. The guides we use give a good reflection of the true 
market value of a vehicle.
Mrs S has said that cars which were  similar to hers were advertised  at a higher price.  Ive 
thought about this, but our service  doesnt generally rely on adverts or find them persuasive 
when assessing  a fair market value. This is because they are what  the seller would like to 
achieve and are often  the starting point  of a negotiation.
Admiral valued Mrs S car at £56,550.  In reaching  this valuation it says it relied on three  of 
the same  industry  guides our service  typically looks  at. It says these valuations  were:
Parkers - £51,240
CAP - £54,700
Glasss - £56,550
Admiral says it also had an independent  assessor review Mrs S car and they provided a 
valuation of £56,550.
Our investigator checked the valuations Admiral  carried out before  she issued her 
assessment. I have also checked  these and the figures returned are within  range of the 
valuations Admiral has quoted. Based on this Im satisfied  that Admiral  has placed a fair 
value on the car and settled the claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
It follows that I wont be asking Admiral to increase the value it placed on Mrs S car.
my final decision
For the reasons  I dont  uphold Mrs S complaint against Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7326458