K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that her mobile  phone insurance  was mis-sold as Asurion Europe Limited 
didnt make her aware the policy only provides cover for damage. She says she was covered 
for loss under  her previous policy and the change in cover should  have  been  highlighted.
background
When Miss A bought  a new mobile phone from a retailer she was sold an insurance policy at 
the same  time. She later lost her phone and tried to make a claim but was told the policy 
doesnt include cover  for loss  it only covers her for damage to her phone.  
Miss A wasnt happy about this and complained. She said the change wasnt  made  clear  to 
her when she upgraded her phone and took out the new policy.  When  she brought her 
complaint to this service,  Asurion said it wasnt something we could investigate as the sale 
falls under the connected contract  exemption. 
Our investigator thought it was something  we could look into. She said the policy wording  
shows the retailer is appointed to sell this insurance by Asurion Europe  Limited.  As Asurion 
is regulated by the FCA and carries out other regulated activities, she said the sale would  be 
considered ancillary  to regulated activities.
Asurion says its not responsible for the sale and so we cant  investigate  this complaint. It 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought we could investigate the complaint. 
In brief,  I said we couldnt investigate a complaint against the retailer but we could  
investigate a complaint  against Asurion  because it was responsible for the retailers 
actions in relation  to the sale. Although Asurion argued that the connected contracts 
exemption applied,  in my judgment that wasnt the case if Asurion  was responsible  for the 
sale. That was because  the main focus  of its business involves regulated activities,  so the 
connected contracts exemption  wouldnt apply to Asurion. If Asurion was responsible for the 
retailers actions then it was responsible  for the sale. And a sale by Asurion isnt covered by 
the exemption.  
Asurion disagreed and said this wasnt a complaint  we could investigate.  It said the 
arrangements between it and the retailer are set out in an agreement  between them, and 
this agreement makes it clear the connected contract exemption applies.
After considering Asurions comments I issued a second provisional decision. In that 
decision I said it was still my view this was something we could investigate, and I went  on to 
consider the merits  of the complaint. I set out my findings as follows:
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
The connected contracts exemption allows  companies supplying non-motor  goods or 
services (or providing services relating to travel)  to carry out insurance distribution activities 
 which  would cover  the sale of insurance  without  being  subject  to regulation.  This only 
applies if the firms main  line of business doesnt consist  of carrying  on a regulated activity, 
and provided certain criteria are met. 
Ref: DRN76168032Miss A bought  her policy at the same time as her phone.  The retailer doesnt  appear to 
undertake any regulated  activity. And the contract appears to meet  the criteria to be a 
connected contract of insurance. So the exemption  seems to apply to a sale of the policy by 
the retailer, and we couldnt consider the complaint against them.
However, if the policy was sold by (or on behalf of) Asurion, the position is different.
I have to consider  the rules that govern our jurisdiction  the DISP Rules.  Under DISP 2.3 
we can consider the complaint if it relates  to an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one 
of the specified activities,  or ancillary activities carried on in connection with them.  The 
guidance to this section says, Complaints  about acts or omissions include those in respect 
of activities for which the firm ...is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm ... has accepted  responsibility). 
As I explained in my first provisional decision,  the policy documents  say Asurion  is the 
administrator of the policy and the retailer is appointed to sell this insurance by Asurion 
Europe Limited So the policy says the retailer sold the policy on behalf of Asurion. In 
other words, it was acting  as Asurions agent. 
Asurion disputes  this and has provided further comments. It has referred to its agreement  
with the retailer  and provided a limited extract from this agreement. We have asked Asurion 
a number of times to provide full details of the agreement but it hasnt provided this. So Im 
proceeding on the information I have, and can draw  adverse inferences from the failure to 
provide the information.
From the information I have seen, it appears that:
Asurion has appointed the retailer to sell the policy;  
Asurion pays the retailer  a commission for each  policy sold;  and 
the retailer must sell the policy in line with Asurions requirements and standards.
These factors  the payment of commission and the requirement to sell in line with Asurions 
standards  support my view that theres  an agency relationship between the two. Asurion 
hasnt provided  further evidence  that changes my view,  namely  that the retailer sold the 
policy on behalf of, and as agent for, Asurion..
The exemption only applies  if the firms main line of business doesnt consist of carrying on a 
regulated activity. The regulated activities Asurion carries out appear  to include assisting in 
the administration and performance  of a contract  of insurance and arranging  (bringing about) 
deals in investments.  Thats defined as making  arrangements for a person to buy a general 
insurance contract.  Its clear from the other  things Asurion is regulated  for (and the nature of 
its business) the main  focus of its business  involves regulated activities, so the connected  
contracts exemption doesnt apply to Asurion. Although the policy  was sold by the retailer,  
Asurion is responsible for their actions. So Asurion is responsible for the sale.  And a sale by 
Asurion isnt covered  by the exemption. 
Asurion has said neither the retailer  nor any other  distributors are authorised for insurance 
sales or act as its appointed representative.  But Asurion is authorised  for activities  which 
would cover the sale of insurance. (And even if it wasnt authorised, if it was carrying out an 
activity thats in our jurisdiction we could still consider it). In any event, as Ive explained, 
Asurion is responsible for what the retailer did. All of which  means this is a complaint  we can 
investigate against  Asurion.
Ref: DRN76168033In the absence of the full agreements between the parties it remains my view that the 
complaint is in jurisdiction  for the reasons  I have  identified.
the merits of the complaint
As the complaint is one we can look at, Ive gone  on to consider the substance of the 
complaint. 
The complaint concerns  the sale of an insurance policy sold to Miss A at the same time as 
her mobile phone.  The policy was intended to protect her phone  against accidental damage. 
Miss A says she had previously had a policy which covered her for loss and damage to her 
phone, but when she bought the new phone she was sold a policy  that only provided cover 
for damage,  and this wasnt made clear to her. 
Information provided to a customer  about an insurance policy  should  be clear, fair and not 
misleading. Significant or unusual terms should  be brought  to the customers  attention. 
Miss A says she bought the phone and the policy over the phone and she wasnt  told during 
the call about  the nature of the cover provided  by the policy. We dont have details of her 
call. But I have seen  the policy documents that were provided  following the call.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  provided about the insurance and note the following:
The covering  letter describes the policy as Damage Cover. 
The Welcome Pack explains  that the policy  is designed to protect the phone against  
the risk of damage.  
The summary document has a section headed What is insured? which says:  
Accidental damage malicious damage  and pet damage Under the section What 
is not insured? there are two bullet points, and the second  point says any claim for 
loss or theft. 
In the full policy terms there are sections setting out what  is covered and what is not 
covered. Again, these make it clear  the policy only provides  cover for damage,  and 
does not cover loss or theft.
On this basis Im satisfied the information provided was clear. The covering  letter,  welcome 
pack and summary document all set out that the nature of the policy  is to provide cover for 
damage only, so this was brought  to her attention. While I cant be sure what  was said 
during the call, I think the documents would have  made clear  to her the extent of the cover  
and if that was different from what she was expecting, would have led her to question it. 
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that this complaint against Asurion Europe 
Limited is one that we can investigate but I didnt  intend  to uphold the complaint.
replies to the provisional decision
Miss A has not replied to my second  provisional decision. 
Asurion has replied. It still says this is not a complaint  we can investigate, for the following 
reasons:
My description of the arrangement  it has with the retailer is correct and not disputed, 
but that doesnt mean the distributor is acting as its agent from a regulatory 
perspective or that its directly responsible for the sale. 
Ref: DRN76168034It has provided evidence to support this, in particular that the Regulator is fully aware 
of the arrangements.  If my provisional  decision  is correct either Asurion or its 
distributor would  be committing an offence  and in breach of FCA rules,  neither of 
which is true.
It has never said it benefits from the exemption  its sole argument is that the retailer  
benefits from the exemption, which I have accepted.  
Its very important this finding  more clearly and accurately  presents my view of the 
situation  that where a complaint is made about  a sale by a distributor exempt from 
regulation by the connected contracts exemption, the intermediary who has 
appointed the exempt  party to sell the product is directly accountable from a 
regulatory perspective for the sale of that policy, provided a commission is paid and 
sales quality is overseen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Asurion has made further comments  about  our jurisdiction to investigate  this complaint. Ive 
considered these carefully but in my judgment  they dont raise anything  new that would lead 
me to reach a different  conclusion.
I agree  that the connected contracts exemption does seem to apply to the retailer.  As Ive 
explained, its likely that means if the retailer is responsible for the sale,  then we cant  look 
into the complaint.  But if the retailer is not responsible  for the sale,  the position is different.
Ive set out in detail  why I consider Asurion is responsible for the sale, since it was carried  
out by the retailer on its behalf. Asurion accepts that the connected contracts exemption 
does not apply to it. Its argument is based  on the fact the retailer benefits from the 
exemption. 
I have asked Asurion  to give more details of its agreement  with the retailer  but this hasnt 
been provided. Based on the limited  information  I have seen, Im satisfied Asurion was 
responsible for the actions of the retailer. This not simply because a commission is paid and 
sales quality is overseen  Ive looked  at the nature  of their relationship  in the round, taking 
into account all the relevant  factors.  Based on this I consider Asurion is responsible for the 
sale. And its accepted  that a sale by Asurion  isnt covered by the exemption.  Which means 
this is a complaint  we can investigate.
Neither party has made any further  comments on the merits of the complaint. Without  
anything to contradict  what  I said in the provisional decision, it remains my view that the 
policy was not mis-sold,  because the information provided to Miss A was clear  and the 
significant points  about what was covered (or not covered) were brought to her attention.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Asurion Europe Limited is one that we can 
investigate but, for the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN76168035Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7616803