K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss H says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint because I dont think FICL gave Miss H clear 
enough information about the policy. 
I say this because  Im not persuaded  FICL  did enough to bring Miss Hs attention to the 
policys medical terms.
I think this wouldve mattered to Miss H because of a medical condition she had and was 
taking medication  for when she bought  the PPI. I dont think its likely Miss H wouldve been 
able to claim for disability  if it was something to do with her existing condition.  So I dont 
think she couldve claimed for everything I think she likely expected to be able to claim for.
Ive thought about all FICLs points, including what it has said about  being unable to decide 
what impact her condition wouldve had on her ability to work. But whatever past effect it 
might have had, I think Miss Hs condition meant it was possible she might  in future want to 
claim for disability resulting from her condition. And I think  the PPI wouldve been much  less 
attractive to her if shed  realised she couldnt claim for any time off work due to her known 
health issue.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Miss H wouldve bought the policy if FICL had 
given her enough information  about  it. So I think Miss H has lost out because of what FICL 
did wrong.
putting things right
I understand Miss Hs card account  is closed. 
FICL should put Miss H in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss H would have owed when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN79344902If Miss H made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until the refund is paid. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss H would  have owed each month without  PPI  
Miss H paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss H paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Miss H wouldve owed  FICL  something  on her card.  The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss H what  its done to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Miss H by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can reclaim the tax if she doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7934490