K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr G took out a total of three loans with Provident in 2016. All three  loans were  repayable  by 
a number of weekly  instalments.
Loan no.
Amount Date borrowed
Weekly instalment
No. of weekly 
instalments
1 £500 29.01.16 £32.50 23
2 £650 16.06.16 £32.50 32
3 £2,400 15.12.16 £62.40 78
Mr G says he was in financial  difficulty when  he applied  for the loans.  He says he was given 
further loans even though  hed missed payments. And he says he had a poor credit  history. 
He believes that if Provident had carried out proper affordability checks,  it wouldnt have lent 
to him.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, she 
thought that on the basis  of the information  that Provident had, it would have looked as if 
Mr G could afford the loans. And she thought the checks Provident had carried out were  
proportionate.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  So the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN79912972the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish whether Mr G 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Provident carried out a number of checks before it lent to Mr G. It asked him for details of his 
regular monthly income and expenditure. And it carried out a credit  check  before making the 
loans.
Provident was entitled to rely on the information Mr G provided in the absence of anything to 
suggest it might be unreliable. And on the basis of the figures that Mr G gave Provident, Im 
satisfied that it would have appeared that hed be able to afford  the weekly loan repayments 
comfortably for all three loans.
Its true that Mr G had some defaults  on his credit file when he applied  for the loans. But 
those had been recorded a few years before. And I think it was reasonable of Provident  not 
to view them  as an indication that Mr G was struggling financially when he applied for the 
loans.
Ive considered Mr Gs payment history with Provident. Although  hed been late with a couple 
of repayments  on loan 1, hed brought  his account  up to date quickly, and he was up to date 
with his payments  on loan 1 when he applied for loan 2. Taking everything into account,  
I think that the checks Provident  carried  out before making loans 1 and 2 were  proportionate. 
And based on the information it had, I dont  think Provident was wrong to agree  to those 
loans.
Mr G was up to date with his payments on loan 2 when he applied for loan 3. But Ive borne 
in mind that hed missed  two consecutive payments on loan 2 more  than once,  and had 
ended up paying  three instalments in one go on those occasions. And hed missed a single 
payment and doubled up the following week a few times.  
Ref: DRN79912973Loan 3 was for significantly more than the two previous loans, and Mr G needed to sustain 
repayments for around 18 months. I think that this, coupled with Mr Gs repayment history 
with Provident,  should have alerted it to the possibility that it couldnt safely rely on the 
information that Mr G was providing about  his finances. And I think  it should  have  been  
concerned that Mr G wasnt borrowing sustainably. So I think  Provident should  have  taken 
steps at that point to verify  Mr Gs true financial position independently.
Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements to see what its likely Provident would have 
discovered if it had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks. Having done so, 
Im satisfied that they dont contain  anything  which  I think  should have indicated to Provident 
that Mr G was experiencing  financial  difficulty,  or that he was unlikely to be able to make  his 
repayments on loan 3 in a sustainable  manner.
So taking everything into account, even if Provident  had looked  into Mr Gs financial position 
as thoroughly as I think it should have done, I dont think it would have  been  wrong  to give 
loan 3 to Mr G.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G, but it follows that Im unable to uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7991297