K820x#14complaint
Mrs B on behalf of the estate of the late Mr H complains that Just Retirement Limited  
shouldnt have provided Mr H with a lifetime  mortgage  in 2015. Mrs B wants  Just to return  
her fathers estate to where it would have been without the lifetime mortgage.
background
Mrs B says that her father was a vulnerable  adult  living in hoarded, unsanitary conditions. 
Mrs B says that Mr H had been  a hoarder  and self-neglecting since the 1990s.  Mrs B says 
that her father had alcohol and gambling addictions  and that as a vulnerable  person Just 
shouldnt have provided him with a lifetime mortgage in 2015.   
In 2015 Mr H was aged  80. An equity release adviser met with Mr H and recommended  an 
equity release product with the provider Just. Just arranged a valuer  to value the property to 
confirm that it was suitable security for the mortgage. Just then offered  Mr H a mortgage 
which he accepted.  Mr H appointed a solicitor  who signed what  is known as  a SHIP 
certificate to confirm that Mr H understood the terms of the mortgage. 
Mrs B says that Mr H was a vulnerable person, the property  was in very poor condition  with 
evidence of hoarding, human waste on floors, and walls, rotting bags of food, and rot, damp, 
mould and ivy growing inside the house.  Mrs B says that when Mr H became ill he had no 
money left, he couldnt afford a care package that would have benefited him in his illness.  
Mr H died in March 2018. Our adjudicator  didnt  recommend that this complaint should  be 
upheld as he felt that Just had done nothing wrong. Mrs B disagreed  and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H applied for an equity  mortgage through an adviser and the loan was provided  by Just. 
Mrs B has made a separate complaint against the equity release adviser which  I have dealt 
with in another Decision. The provider didnt advise Mr H to take out the loan.  It provided  the 
loan and would have done its own enquiries  to confirm the property was suitable  security for 
the loan. It says that it conducts its business through qualified financial intermediaries. Just 
says if the financial  intermediaries or Mr Hs solicitor had raised an issue about a potential 
vulnerability that it would have  requested written  evidence from both Mr Hs solicitor and the 
financial intermediary to conform that Mr H was fully aware of the action that he was taking 
at that time. In this case it says that it wasnt alerted to any potential vulnerability.
Mrs B says that the condition of the property should  have alerted Just to Mr Hs vulnerability 
and that the valuer that Just appointed  ignored  the obvious signs-the ivy growing through the 
wall, the hoarding and the human waste and instead approved  the property as suitable  for a 
mortgage.
The difficulty  with finding fault with Justs  valuer is that the property had already been  
approved by another valuer as suitable for a mortgage subject  to some further reports  at 
about the same value.  Neither valuer  had brought the lenders attention  to the matters  that 
Mrs B believes should  have been  obvious  and that they ignored. I also note that neither the 
previous broker nor the broker for Just had brought the lenders attention  to those matters. 
Ref: DRN78074612There is an issue as to whether the situation  at Mr Hs property was as Mrs B describes it in 
2015 and I note that she feels that the photos  taken by the valuer provide an incorrect  
picture. Mrs B has produced many photos of the condition of the house. Some  of the photos 
relate to the physical  structural condition of the house and others to the human waste and 
the rotting food. The physical  condition  of the property isnt good and would indicate that 
basic maintenance issues werent  attended  to. I noted that part of the money Mr H asked for 
was to rewire the house. This priority may have followed on from the first valuer drawing his 
attention to that issue.
Mrs B points to evidence that her father was a hoarder, had some addictions  and didnt 
maintain the property in good  condition. Mrs Bs photos also draw  my attention to the human 
waste in the property. Sometime after Mr H took out the loan he began to suffer  from a 
terminal illness. Im not clear when these  photos, showing the condition of the house,  were 
taken but I presume the majority were  taken after he sadly  died and when Mrs B had the 
task of cleaning  the property. But I cant be certain that this was how the property was in 
2015. Neither of the two brokers who advised Mr H mention  it, nor do the two valuers and 
nor does Mr Hs solicitor  who visited the property. I also note that I have not seen  any 
medical evidence  of any physical or mental illness that could have caused this before  Mr Hs 
terminal illness.
Mrs B believes that Mr H was a vulnerable person and Just shouldnt have been sold this 
product this product to him. Its recognised that some people are vulnerable through say 
mental incapacity or language problems  or are under pressure from other  persons to borrow 
money. They may feel they have to take out the loan by high pressure sales  techniques to 
take out equity  mortgages.
But, whatever  the physical  condition  of the property  he lived in I believe its clear that Mr H 
knew what he was doing when he took out this loan. Before he took out the loan he tried a 
bank and another equity release provider. There is no evidence  of high pressure sales  
techniques being applied to him to take out the loan by Just. There  is no letter from a GP or 
any medical professional  which would support a finding that Mr H lacked mental capacity to 
independently make a financial decision such as this. There is no evidence that he was 
under pressure from someone else to take out the loan. 
Two advisers from different companies visited Mr H and took his instructions and recorded  
them. The instructions he gave are similar  to both advisers which  indicates that he was 
consistent in his requirements and doesnt  suggest  a confused sate of mind. 
One of the safeguards that the equity release provider  puts in place is that Mr H appoints a 
solicitor and the solicitor attended on Mr H to confirm he understood what he is signing up to. 
Ive looked at the certificate dated  2 November 2015 and note that the solicitor  certifies:
We confirm that there were no obvious  indicators that the client lacked mental or 
physical capacity to understand the transaction
The client did not appear to be acting under any undue influence  or external pressure 
from any third party
  
So, the solicitor  confirms that Mr H had the mental  capacity  to proceed with the application. I 
have no medical  evidence that would  contradict that and indeed the evidence is that in 2015 
Mr H was making a rational decision to borrow money on the strength of his asset much as 
many other people do. Because  of that I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.   
Ref: DRN78074613   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7807461