K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his credit card.  Mr M has told us that he wasnt aware the policy had 
been added  to his card, and didnt know  what PPI was. I dont know  for certain what was 
said at the time Mr M applied for his card and PPI, but Halifax  has sent us a copy of the 
available paperwork.  The option to take PPI was selected before the application form was 
printed and Mr M signed the application form in acceptance of the selections  made  on it. 
I think the selections made on the form including PPI were  likely to have been made as a 
result of a conversation  Mr M had with the Halifax representative. I would also have 
expected Mr M to have  raised any concerns he had about the policy before signing in 
agreement with the selections made. So I think Halifax made it clear that Mr M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr M has told us that he was entitled  to generous sick pay when he applied for the PPI and 
could have relied on his partner to help him make his repayments.  But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. 
And while Mr Ms partner would have wanted  to help, their ability to would have been 
dependant on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed. So I dont think 
this offer of help could be relied  on.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he has said about not making a 
claim under the policy when he had a reason to. But it was for Mr M to attempt a claim 
against the policy if he had reason to. So these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN76459182This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7645918