K821x#15complaint
Miss N complains that a used car she acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
When she got the car home she found she was unable to open the bonnet  and contacted 
the dealership  who said it appeared the cable had snapped and they would repair it if she 
brought the car back  in.
However, a few days later, and before Miss N could  return  the car, it stalled and lost power,  
and the engine management light also illuminated on the dashboard, and then it erratically 
stop/started. Miss N complained to the dealership who agreed to look at these  issues and at 
the same  time replace  the bonnet cable.
Miss N took the car to the dealership and spent most of the day there.  The bonnet cable was 
replaced and a sensor was cleaned. The car was returned to Miss N.
Miss N says the next day the car exhibited the same problem  again,  losing power  and 
cutting out. She says she videoed what was happening with the car as evidence  and 
contacted the dealership again  who said she should also contact  the broker.  
Miss N attended the dealership at the weekend and it agreed  to take the car back  and 
unwind the agreement. A phone call was made to the broker who said that unfortunately this 
couldnt be processed as the team dealing with the unwinding of agreements  wasnt in. 
Miss N left the car, its keys and log book at the dealership.
However, on the Monday, the broker informed  Miss N that the dealership was no longer 
agreeing to the cancellation of the agreement as it said it had driven  the car itself for 
45 miles in various road conditions and no fault could be found with it. 
There followed an exchange of texts between Miss N and the dealership. 
The dealership arranged for the car to be looked at by a garage it said it had no connections 
with and one that specialised in the make of Miss Ns car. It said neither of these garages 
had been able to find any fault with the car.
Miss N complained to Blue Motor who arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent engineer. The independent  engineer took the car for a road test in a variety of 
road conditions  and reported  they could find no fault with the car. Blue Motor didnt uphold 
Miss Ns complaint about the car.
Miss N complained to this service. Our adjudicator  recommended that Miss Ns complaint  
should be upheld  as he said he thought the dealership had withheld information about  the 
car and the faults found. He said he didnt know whether repairs  had been carried  out before 
the car had been inspected by the independent  engineer but he found the dealerships 
evidence unreliable.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the evidence the dealership had initially  agreed there was a 
fault with the car and that the agreement should be unwound and the car handed back. The 
dealership had then changed its view, but had subsequently provided  contradictory 
Ref: DRN78713502information about the car which he didnt think was due to a simple error on the part of the 
dealership. 
He said looking at the texts exchanged between Miss N and the dealership in January 2019  
the dealership  had said a fault had been diagnosed with MAP  (manifold  absolute  pressure 
sensor) as it is a common fault. The text had gone  to say that the car had spent six hours  at 
the garage and had been fixed.  However,  the job card produced for the repairs to the car, 
said that the bonnet cable had been  replaced and the Air Mass sensor  had been  cleaned. 
Our adjudicator said he didnt accept that the text had incorrectly  said MAP  when  meaning  
MAF (for the mass air flow sensor that had cleaned) and he said hed seen the actual job 
card which appeared  to have been  produced much later when requested by Miss N after she 
had complained to this service.
Our adjudicator said he was satisfied having  viewed the video that there  was a fault with the 
car.
Our adjudicator said due to the discrepancies with the evidence it would be fair for Miss N to 
reject the car, have  the agreement  cancelled  and her deposit and any payments made  
reimbursed with interest. He also thought that Blue Motors should  pay Miss N £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by being supplied  with a faulty car.
Blue Motors  disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said there was no evidence  the car was 
faulty and the cleaning  of the MAF  was a serviceable item and didnt count as a repair for 
fault. It said there had been a simple mistake  on the part of the dealership.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods  
supplied  is satisfactory".  And the relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description  of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances to be taken into account  would  include things like the age and the mileage  
at the time of sale and the vehicle's  history.  
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition  
and other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom from 
minor  defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality  of the goods.
Here the car was nine years old and had a mileage of 93,000  so a reasonable person would 
expect it to require  maintenance and repair at some  point. However, Miss N raised  an issue  
with the car within the first week of acquiring  it and took it back  to the dealership.  
Its agreed the car was at the dealership for six hours having the bonnet cable replaced and 
other investigations undertaken. However, from the evidence it isnt clear what  other  work 
had been carried  out on the car. In the job card, which doesnt appear to have been  
Ref: DRN78713503prepared at the time, it says that the air mass  sensor was cleaned. But in a text sent later to 
Miss N by the dealership it says that a fault with the MAP sensors  was identified at that 
time and the car then test driven and returned to her. As these are two different parts  there 
is a contradiction in the evidence.
Ive seen that the car was also looked at by two other garages, one that the dealership  says 
isnt used by them, and the second a specialist garage dealing with the make of Miss Ns 
car. Both of these garages  looked  at the car in February 2019 and although one garage said 
there were no faults identified the specialist garage  said there were historic fault codes and 
a slight oil leak on the timing chain.
Miss N has provided a video of the fault which she says was taken the day after the car had 
been into the garage for repairs. This video shows the car losing power and then stalling 
and Im satisfied it was shot when Miss N said it was. This is because  the date is said by 
someone in the car and because I accept  it was filmed to show the dealership that the first 
repairs were unsuccessful.
There is no dispute that the dealership had agreed  to take the car back and to unwind the 
agreement. The only reason this didnt proceed  at that time was because it was the 
weekend and the team required to process  this werent available. The dealership  then 
subsequently changed its mind. It says this is because it was able to do an extensive test 
drive and could  find no faults with the car.
I accept that the independent engineer didnt find anything wrong with the car when they 
inspected it at the end of February 2019,  and that this was also confirmed  by the other  
garages inspections  also in February. However, I dont think  the evidence as to the cars 
condition at the point Miss N returned  it to the dealership is as straight  forward as 
Blue Motor  says.
I think a reasonable  person would be troubled  about the dealership  confirming there was a 
fault with the car, and then saying  this was an error and that what was actually being 
referred to was a different part that wasnt faulty  and had been simply cleaned  as a matter 
of maintenance.  I think the text from the dealership  raises an issue as to whether it has fully 
disclosed what work has been undertaken on the car. The text clearly sets out that a fault 
had been found that was considered common  so while it may be possible to confuse  MAP 
and MAF the word  fault  denotes a very different thing to a part requiring cleaning.
Ive also seen that the dealership later prepared the job card to set out what work had been  
undertaken on the car when Miss N brought it back for the first time. This does raise an 
issue about the reliability of its contents in light of the confusion that has been  created by 
what the dealership  has said.
So I think looking at the evidence that there is a doubt that the dealership has been  open 
and honest about its actions and what work  it has undertaken on the car. Miss N was clear 
that she wished  to reject the car in the first 30 days of the agreement due to it being  faulty.  
And I dont  think I can reasonably think that its likely the car was fault free when she 
returned it to the dealership at the weekend following the attempted repairs.  I cant 
reasonably rule out that other work  has been carried on it.
Ref: DRN78713504For the reasons  given  above I think its reasonable and fair to uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
And Im asking Blue Motor to cancel  the agreement with nothing  further  to pay, reimburse 
Miss N her deposit and any monthly  payments with interest and remove  any adverse 
information about this agreement from her credit file.
I also think that Miss N has been  caused  distress and inconvenience by having been 
supplied with the faulty car and agree with our adjudicator that it would be fair for Blue Motor 
to pay her compensation of £150.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Ns complaint. Im asking Blue Motor 
Finance Limited  to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Refund Miss N her deposit  together with interest at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement
Refund any payments  made by Miss N under  the agreement together  with interest  at 
the rate of 8% per year from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Pay Miss N £150  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871350