K820x#14Complaint
Mr S and Mrs B complain  about the way TSB Bank plc handled questions concerning 
replacement bank cards. They also complain that TSB wont  act on Mrs Bs behalf based on 
Mr S instructions. 
Background
Mr S and Mrs B have a joint account  with TSB. On 4 January 2019 Mr S called TSB to ask 
about a replacement bank card. Mr S asked  whether  a new card would be sent to him and 
was told a replacement  is normally sent around a month before the old card expires. During  
the call Mr S said it was a joint account  and that both cards  would  need  replacing. 
The call handler at TSB said she needed  Mrs B to call so she could order  a new card for her. 
During the call, TSB agreed to send a new card to a local branch for Mr S to pick up. Mr S 
was advised that his existing card would stop working whilst a replacement card was 
ordered for him. 
Mr S complained about the way TSB had handled  his request and its refusal to act on his 
instructions to send  Mrs B a new card. When Mr S spoke with a complaint handler she said 
that his existing card hadnt expired yet and that a replacement would be sent out over the 
following four weeks.  Mr S was unhappy that hed wasted  a lot of time while  discussing his 
bank cards with the original advisor. 
TSB responded to the complaint on 31 January 2019 and agreed that the call Mr S had on 
4 January 2019 had been handled badly. TSB credited Mr S and Mrs Bs account  with £300 
and apologised  for what had happened. But TSB said it couldnt take Mr S instructions on 
Mrs Bs behalf even though its a joint account.  Mr S and Mrs B referred their complaint to 
our service  and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought TSB had dealt with 
their complaint fairly  and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S spent a long time on the phone trying  to find out if he needed a new bank card.  Ive 
listened to the calls Mr S had with TSB and I agree he was given  the wrong information 
when he first spoke with someone. As a result, Mr S wasted around an hour discussing 
replacement cards and was even told a new one would be sent to his local branch and his 
existing card would be cancelled. 
But that information was wrong.  When Mr S spoke to a complaint handler they confirmed 
that the existing  card had around a month  left before  it expired. The complaint handler said 
Mr S could expect a replacement card around ten days before the existing card expired. I 
agree that this information should  have been given to Mr S at the outset and that he wasted 
about an hour checking transactions and talking about replacement  cards.  
Mr S also complains that TSB wont act on his instructions in relation to Mrs B even  though 
they hold a joint account. TSB has confirmed that whilst they are joint account holders, it 
cant simply take Mr S instructions in relation to Mrs B. TSB says Mrs B can provide her 
Ref: DRN78970272consent for Mr S to act on her behalf over the phone. But Mr S has explained  that option 
doesnt work for them as Mrs B may not be able to answer the security  questions if they are 
asked in English.  
Whilst I can understand Mr S concerns, TSB is free to decide  what  security  measures  to put 
in place and what  instructions its willing to accept. In this case, the fact Mr S has a joint 
account with Mrs B doesnt  mean  TSB has to accept his instructions for both of them. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr S but I havent found that TSB has made  a mistake or treated them 
unfairly. 
Mr S has asked  for confirmation  of how to set up authority to act on Mrs Bs behalf. TSBs 
final response says Mrs B could appoint  Mr S as Power of Attorney to act on her behalf. That 
would allow him to give instructions for Mrs B. TSB also told our investigator Mrs B could 
grant Mr S third party  access on her behalf. TSB could then accept his instructions. Mr B 
asked for information  about how to do that and the investigator explained  he needed to visit 
a branch with Mrs B to complete a form and that the branch staff could provide assistance if 
required. 
I havent found anything to show TSB has made a mistake in terms of refusing to take Mr S 
instructions on behalf of Mrs B. TSB has provided reasonable options for Mr S to act on 
Mrs Bs behalf and its now up to them to decide  how they wish to proceed. 
TSB has paid Mr S and Mrs B £300  and apologised for the way the call was handled on 
4 January 2019. Ive considered everything Mr S has told us concerning how the issues  
affected him and Mrs B. Having done  so, Im satisfied that £300 fairly  reflects the impact of 
TSBs error  and the time Mr S spent on the phone on 4 January 2019.  As Im satisfied TSB 
has paid a reasonable level of compensation and dealt with this complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897027