K820x#14complaint
Ms K brings this complaint on behalf of her late mothers  estate. She says that National 
Westminster Bank Plc failed to close down accounts in her mothers  name within the 10 
working days that said they would. This led to her getting the money later than expected 
which resulted in a poorer  exchange rate for her. 
She would like compensation  for the losses suffered as a result of being paid the money  
late. She also wants Natwest to improve their bereavement service.
background
Following the death of his mother,  Ms C, Mr C contacted  Natwests  bereavement service on 
2 November 2018. He told them that he had probate and asked how he should  proceed. 
Mr C told Natwest  that he didnt want the account  closed until January when money  would 
be transferred in from premium bonds  that Ms C had held. 
Natwest advised him to take a copy of the probate to his local branch who would forward it to 
the bereavement service.  
Mr C completed  the closure  request forms in the branch on 5 November 2018.  He was told 
that he would receive  the money  in a few days.
He didnt receive the money. Natwest said that they didnt action the request  because Mr C 
had told them that he didnt want the account  closed until January. 
Mr C contacted Natwest on 17 November  2018 and asked for the closure  to be actioned  
immediately rather than in January.  So, Natwest closed the account  and transferred the 
money directly into Mr Cs account  on 20 November 2018. 
Mr C then sent Ms K, who lives in Australia,  her share of the money. She thought  that the 
money shouldve  been transferred a few days after 5 November 2018, as Mr C had been 
told, and not as late as 20 November 2018.  Because of the variations in the exchange rates,  
Ms K got less money than she wouldve  a few days earlier. 
Ms K complained to Natwest.  She thought that the account shouldve been closed earlier 
than it was. She also thought that Natwest shouldve told her brother  that the money from 
the premium bonds could  be paid into a different account. 
Natwest apologised to Ms K for giving Mr C the wrong information on when the money was 
going to be transferred. They said that the branch  shouldnt have said it would take a few 
days because they had instructions to put the closure on hold until January. But, they also 
said that, as the closure request forms had been  received  by the bereavement service  on 6 
November 2018,  they had closed  the account  within their 10 working days  target. 
They also apologised for not giving Mr C an alternative option for dealing with the premium  
bonds. 
Natwest offered £100 compensation. 
Ms K wasnt happy with this outcome so she came to us. 
Ref: DRN79557512Our investigator found that Natwest had acted  fairly  in offering £100  compensation. 
Ms K didnt agree with this decision. In particular,  she made  the following points:
Her brother, Mr C, had sustained a brain bleed  following  a car accident in January 
2018. This made him less capable of decision making. 
Natwest shouldve told Mr C that the money from the premium bonds  could  be paid 
into a different account. 
Natwests bereavement  service  and the branch staff shouldve communicated with 
each other regarding the right closure date.  
Natwest didnt close the account within 10 working days  of 5 November 2018. 
Natwest still hasnt paid the £100  compensation. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Ms K wont be happy  with my decision. Im not upholding  the complaint. I 
appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Ms K and her brother and I understand that 
my decision  will be a disappointment  to them. I will explain why I have reached it. 
Ive fully considered  this complaint taking  into account that Ms K says that Mr C was less 
capable of decision making. But, I cant say that, had he been more  capable, his decisions  
wouldve been any different. I think that he made  the right decisions at the right time. 
Mr C took the decision  to keep the account  open  until the money from the matured premium  
bonds was paid into it. I think that this is a sensible decision. So, the complaint then is that 
Natwest shouldve told him that the money could  be paid into a different account. I dont 
think that it was Natwests  responsibility  to do this. It was for Mr C or Ms K to find out this 
information from the premium bonds  provider. 
When they did discover that the money  could be paid elsewhere, Mr C gave instructions to 
Natwest to close the account immediately. Again, this was a perfectly sound decision.  I 
appreciate that following his mothers death  and his accident, it will have been stressful 
dealing with these  affairs, but I can only say that Mr C dealt with them well. 
Natwests bereavement service was managing the closure of the accounts. Because of this, 
I dont think that it was for them  to communicate it to the branch staff. They had 
communicated directly  with Mr C who had told them to put the closure on hold until January. 
But, the branch  staff did give Mr C the wrong information about when the account would be 
closed. I think that Natwests apology and offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances. 
I think that the 10 working days target  to close the account began  on 17 November 2018 
when Mr C asked for the account to be closed immediately. So, I think  that Natwest met this 
target. 
Again, I do appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Ms K wanted and I am sorry for this 
especially after the difficult time that the family has been through.  I hope that Ive clearly  
explained the reasons for my decision. 
Ref: DRN79557513my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think that National Westminster  Bank  Plc has acted fairly and 
reasonably in this matter.  Other than to pay the £100 compensation, if not already paid, I 
dont require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7955751