K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the time it has taken / is staking Interactive Investor Services  Limited 
(the business) to provide him with information that will allow him to complete his tax returns. 
background
In 2015, The Motley Fool Share Dealing  Service (the service) was migrated from a third-
party share dealing  business, to the business.  
Mr R now requires copies of the contract  notes of bonds/stocks sold during 2012 to 2015 
that have accrued interest. 
The business didnt  uphold his complaint. Although it tried to obtain this information  from the 
third party it was unsuccessful and doesnt feel its responsible for the trouble Mr R 
experienced. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and upheld it. In summary, he said:
A letter from the third-party share  dealing service  dated 14 November 2018  
confirmed that the account that held Mr Rs trade history between 2012  and 2015  
was The Motley Fool Share Dealing Service. 
As this share dealing  service migrated to the business it was suggested   by the 
third-party business  the information  would be held with the business. But it was 
willing to provide the business with any information it needed. 
The FRL from the business  dated 30 April 2019 confirms they were unclear why the 
third party  was unable  to provide the information Mr R needed. 
The evidence suggests that the business sent two emails  on 16 April and 23 April 
2019  to the business. The first email  asking the third party  to provide this 
information, and the second email being a follow up email.  
There was no further communication  from the business. 10 months on this isnt good 
enough.
Whilst the business believes that its not responsible for the information  and it might 
not be  the aim shouldve been to help Mr R resolve his issues.  And the email that 
the business sent to the third-party  wasnt clear or enough.  
The business should now obtain the information from the third party and pay Mr R 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
The business disagreed with the investigators view.  Its asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary,  it said:
It doesnt agree that its responsible for the issues experienced by Mr R about 
obtaining the information on his account when it was administered  by the third-party  
share dealing  service.
Its unclear why the third party cant provide this information as the transaction  took 
place on its platform. 
It accepts  that it couldve contacted  the third-party business sooner but given that it 
contacted the business  earlier  this year, but the business didnt acknowledge this, it 
doesnt think it wouldve made a difference.
Mr R couldve  also been clearer in what he was looking for. As hes now provided 
further information the third-party  business  should be able to help. 
Ref: DRN70108452It doesnt seem fair that it should be responsible for contacting the third-party 
business to obtain  this information  or pay Mr R any compensation. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the business maintains that the third-party business is responsible for providing 
the information sought by Mr R. 
But Im not specifically looking at whether the third-party business was responsible  in this 
case. This complaint is against  the business;  therefore, Im only considering  the actions of 
the business in this case.   
I dont think theres any dispute the account that held Mr Rs trade history between  2012 and 
2015 was The Motley Fool Share  Dealing  Service. 
And any suggestion that the information  Mr R was after was held with the business appears 
to be untrue. Given the nature of the request and the time frame,  the trades appear to have 
taken place on the third-party  platform,  before migration to the business. 
I note the business tried to help Mr R  whether (or not) it had to is debatable. But as Mr R 
was its client, and it had a business  relationship with him, I dont think it was an 
unreasonable thing to do.  
I appreciate it couldve  just as easily said to Mr R he needed to simply contact the third-party  
business, as the trades werent on its platform, and left it at that, but it didnt.  
I note Mr R wrote to the business in November, and December 2018.  I note he did so both 
before and after he contacted the third-party business in mid-November  2018,  in an effort  to 
try and obtain this information. 
I note in November  2018, the third-party business told Mr R (rightly or wrongly) that the 
business should send it an email regarding  the information he was after,  but Ive seen no 
evidence that the business did this in 2018.  
Whilst I agree that the business probably didnt have to get involved, I note it did. And having  
engaged itself with the effort  to try and resolve this issue for Mr R, Im not satisfied that it has 
provided a reasonable service.  
Despite the third-partys  letter dated November 2018, the business didnt send an email until 
April 2019 some four months later. And I note this was after the complaint was referred  to 
our service.  
I appreciate the business says the third-party  business didnt respond to its emails so there 
wouldve been no point  sending the email  earlier.  But on balance Im unable to say it 
wouldnt have made a difference if it had responded soon after it was requested to do so. It 
was reasonably clear  at that stage that the third-party  probably  had the information  that was 
required but needed input/assistance  from the business. 
Ref: DRN70108453I note there  was no further communication with Mr R, effectively  nothing  further for the best 
part of several  months. The business didnt even confirm that it had sent the emails  to the 
third-party business or update Mr R that it hadnt  received  a response.  He mightve  been  
able to take further action. So, despite  its good  intentions, overall, I dont think  the business 
provided a reasonable service. 
In the circumstances I think the business  couldve done more to manage Mr Rs 
expectations, but also perhaps  communicated clearly with him about its ability  to assist him.  
Thats why I think it should  pay Mr R £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
not because it didnt have the information on its platform.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Interactive Investor  Services  Limited should  pay Mr R £150  compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7010845