K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that when  he made a claim on his motor insurance policy U K Insurance  
Limited (UKI) wrongly decided  to treat the policy as though  it had never existed.
  
background
Mr Ks car was stolen  and later recovered,  damaged. When  UKIs garage assessed  the car it 
found it had been modified. UKI said Mr K hadnt declared the cars non-standard  tinted  
windows, rear spoiler and front splitter. It said if hed done  so it wouldnt have offered him a 
policy. Mr K said the car was a limited edition model. He thought all of its features came  as 
standard, as set out on a list he got from the manufacturer. He also said hed asked  the 
previous owner,  who told him the car hadnt been  modified.
As UKI didnt change  its view, one of our investigators considered  Mr Ks complaint. She 
thought Mr K should have been aware  that the rear spoiler and the tinted windows were 
modified. She noted that UKIs underwriting criteria allowed for some modifications if they 
cost less than the limit set out in the criteria. She said she hadnt  seen any evidence  that the 
cost of the spoiler exceeded the limit. The investigator noted  that if Mr K had replied Yes to 
the question he was asked about modifications,  there was nothing  to show  that hed have 
been asked about tinted  windows at the time.
The investigator didnt  think UKI had shown that it would have declined cover had Mr K 
declared the modifications when he took the policy out. So she upheld  his complaint. She 
said UKI should reinstate the policy, deal with the claim  and pay him £300 compensation.
Mr K thought  more  compensation should be paid. UKI said the investigator hadnt realised 
the extent of the modifications. It said the differences were so great that Mr K must have 
been aware of them.  UKI provided  photos  of the standard limited edition  car and Mr Ks car - 
plus an engineers  comments - in support of its view.
Another investigator considered the new information. She concluded that UKI had acted 
reasonably. In her view,  Mr K may not have realised  the tinted windows were an issue   as 
that feature  was set out in the manufacturers  specification list as standard for the limited 
edition model. But she said there  was no evidence that the rear spoiler was a standard  
feature. She thought the poor paintwork on the front of the car should have led Mr K to 
realise that some of the parts werent factory-fitted. She said UKI had checked the prices of 
the rear spoiler  and the front bumper / splitter  with the manufacturer.  Their cost would have 
exceeded the limit for modifications set out in UKIs  underwriting criteria.  
The investigator also noted that Mr K had put the car up for sale prior to the cars theft. The 
advert said it was a limited edition  car with upgraded styling from a higher specification 
model. She thought that also showed  that Mr K should have declared modifications  to UKI. 
Mr K said the manufacturers  details  showed  his car shared many features with the higher 
specification model.  He thought the rear spoiler was one of them.  He said the first 
investigator hadnt seen any guidance  about modifications on the website hed used when 
buying the policy. He objected to the second  investigator relying on current screenshots,  
which did have such guidance. He said he didnt write the advert shed referred to. In Mr Ks 
view, he did all he could to check about modifications, and had acted in good  faith.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN73365042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to rely on Mr K having misrepresented the facts to it, in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  UKI must first show that it 
asked a clear question.  It must also show that he gave  it the wrong answer and that he didnt 
take reasonable care in replying. UKI must  then show that if it had known the facts,  it would 
have acted differently  - by not offering cover  to Mr K at all, or by doing so on different terms. 
clear question and incorrect answer
Mr K bought the policy in 2017  through a comparison website. The question he was asked 
was Has  the car been modified in any way?  and Mr K had the option of saying yes or no. 
Mr K answered No. He hasnt said he didnt  understand what the question  meant, but in 
any event there was an option to seek help online if needed. As Mr K had said there were no 
modifications, a drop-down box allowing consumers to specify the changes  didnt  appear. It 
would have allowed  Mr K to choose  bodywork modifications and accessories  as changes. 
There has been some confusion on this issue. UKI initially provided details to us from the 
wrong comparison website. Mr K objected to the second investigator using details from the 
correct website later on, as he thought  the details shown on it might have changed. UKI can 
show that it asked  the comparison website to comment  - and that it said the questions  and 
options remained the same as in 2017.  So I think we can rely on that.
After completing the website application, Mr K was transferred to the insurers  website. He 
had to agree  to a set of assumptions before he could buy the policy. These were based  on 
the details hed given online.  One of them was that his car hadnt been  modified or altered in 
any way, including  the bodywork. When his policy was renewed in 2018, he was sent policy 
documents, including a proposal and a schedule of insurance that showed  there  were  no 
modifications to his car. Mr K was asked  to check the documents and ensure the details 
were correct, or call UKI, as the wrong details could invalidate the policy. Mr K accepted the 
details as correct.  I think  that amounts to providing  the wrong answer to UKI again.
reasonable care
UKI says Mr K didnt  take reasonable care in answering its clear question  as his car had 
been extensively modified  and he must have been  aware of it. In particular UKI noted that 
Mr Ks limited  edition model had a rear spoiler,  front splitter and tinted windows that werent  
part of its original specification. Mr K didnt agree. He provided  a copy of the specification. 
Theres a reference  in it to tinted windows,  so I can see why Mr K wouldnt have thought they 
were modified. But theres no reference  to the rear spoiler that was on his car, or to the front 
splitter, in the cars  specification.
After the first investigator  issued her view,  UKIs  engineer provided several  photos  of the 
standard limited  edition car and Mr Ks car. I think there are noticeable  differences between 
them, many of which the engineer listed. In particular, I think  the front bumper / splitter look 
different  and the photos show a large rear spoiler that isnt shown on the standard limited 
edition model. Mr K provided some specialist  magazine articles  that refer to a rear spoiler on 
his model of car. We asked UKI for an engineers comment on the articles. Although it didnt 
provide one, UKI later arranged for an independent  engineer to assess Mr Ks car. 
Ref: DRN73365043The independent engineer said some  parts of the bodywork  had been  replaced and many 
items had been  added to the original  parts.  He said the vehicle had been modified with the 
use of a fibreglass  body  kit and panels.  He said the standard limited  edition model had a rear 
lip spoiler.  Mr Ks car had that, but it also had an aftermarket upper spoiler attached  to it. He 
said the front bumper  had been replaced and tinted glass  had been  added to the car. 
I think the independent engineers comments on the rear spoiler  clarified what  was said in 
the articles Mr K supplied.  They referred  to the gloss black  spoiler  on the boot lid, yet none  
of the photos in the articles showed a high rear spoiler like the one on Mr Ks car. So I think  
its now beyond doubt that the rear spoiler,  other  than the lip, was a modification. 
The independent engineer didnt  refer to the splitter directly. But he said the front bumper on 
Mr Ks car (to which its attached) had been  replaced. Theres  no reference to a splitter in the 
cars specification. None of the articles Mr K provided referred to it. And it isnt shown on any 
of the photos of the standard limited  edition  model. So I think its fair to assume that there 
wasnt one on the original car.
In its final response letter,  UKI said it had voided  Mr Ks policy because it thought hed acted 
recklessly in not declaring the modifications.  It commented on the advert used when Mr K 
put the car up for sale. It said the cars  value  was around £44,000 and that it had all 
conceivable extras.  Although Mr K says he didnt write the advert, he must  have supplied 
the person who did with all the details of his car.
UKI says as Mr K was buying  a car that was far from run of the mill he would have been 
aware of how it should look.  I think thats  a fair point. Mr K was looking to buy a specific, 
prestigious car. I think its very unlikely that any reasonable consumer would make such an 
expensive purchase  without researching it thoroughly. That would include looking at photos  
of the model as well as checking the specification in advance. I think  photos of the standard  
limited edition car alone should  have  alerted  Mr K to the fact that the car he was thinking of 
buying had been modified. 
Mr K has shown  that the limited edition  model shared some features with an even higher-
specification model.  But I dont think it was reasonable  for him to assume what those 
features were, or to disregard the fact that some  of the features of his car were  not in the 
limited edition specification. Mr K told us that when he looked at the literature on the special 
edition model he concluded  that the rear spoiler was probably standard. But he didnt check. 
In my opinion, Mr K cant show he took reasonable care in responding to UKIs question 
about modifications. I dont think he can rely on having asked the previous  owner  about  the 
issue. I think it was reasonable for UKI to think his actions were more  than careless and that 
he acted recklessly in not caring whether the answer he gave  UKI was correct or not.  
effect on UKI    
UKIs has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria,  which  allows it to cover cars with 
some modifications, but the cost of the changes has to be less than the maximum figure 
quoted in the criteria.  I havent  seen the costings for the front bumper / splitter. But the 
manufacturers estimate shows that the cost of the rear spoiler  alone  exceeded UKIs limit. I 
think its fair to say that the total cost of the modifications would have been far higher.
Ref: DRN73365044I think UKI has shown that had it known the facts,  it wouldnt have offered Mr K cover  in the 
first place. I think  it was reasonable for it to treat the policy as though it had never  existed in 
these circumstances.  As I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr K had acted  recklessly,  
it was entitled  to retain the premium hed paid - although it seems it didnt do so.
Mr K mentioned a range of issues that he wasnt happy with. I dont think  its necessary in 
order to deal with his complaint fairly  to respond  to every point Mr K has made, but these are 
a few of the main ones:
Mr K complained to UKI about one of its advisors, but I think  UKI dealt  with that by 
apologising and telling Mr K it would provide feedback
Mr K thinks UKI wrongly insured  his car for £75,000. In fact the policy says its 
insured for up to that sum
Mr K thinks UKI mistakenly believed his car to be a standard  model of its type. But I 
think its clear  that UKI was aware Mr K had the limited edition model
Mr K thinks UKI found the advert for his car through social media and based  its 
decision on his race and social status.  I think UKI is entitled to carry out enquiries  in 
order to validate  a claim.  And theres no that its decision was based on anything 
other than objective information about  the car
I know Mr K will be very unhappy with my decision, but as I dont think  UKI acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.                                                           
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336504