K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Welcome  Financial Services Limited (Welcome) is wrongly chasing him 
for repayment of a secured loan. He also complains he hasnt received a full refund of 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  premiums he paid to Welcome.
background
Mr P took out a secured  loan with Welcome in 2005. His last payment to the account was in 
2006.
In 2014 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS)  made a refund  to Mr Ps 
account, being compensation for PPI that had been mis-sold by Welcome.
It seems  Mr P raised another  complaint about  PPI through this service in May 2018. He says 
since that time Welcome  has chased  him for what he owes on the account. Mr P considers 
Welcome is time barred from claiming the debt, so it shouldnt  be chasing him.
Mr P also says the PPI compensation he received through the FSCS was limited. He 
considers Welcome should  refund  him for the full amount of premiums he paid.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that Mr P had 
contacted Welcome in 2010 and 2011 to discuss what he owed, and that the PPI refund had 
been made in 2014. As such, Mr P had acknowledged  the debt, which meant  Welcome  
could continue to chase him for what he owed.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He maintained that when hed tried to 
claim a full PPI refund  from Welcome it had aggressively chased him for the debt  which he 
still considered time-barred. Mr P also said that the loan had been mis-sold by Welcome  in 
the first place.
Mr P asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says his recent difficulties with Welcome started when  he claimed a full refund of PPI 
premiums. I understand  that the refund he received in 2014 was handled through  the FSCS,  
and I havent seen how that refund was calculated.
If Mr P is unhappy with the amount  of the refund he received, he should first contact the 
FSCS for further guidance. Depending on the information he receives, he may then be able 
to raise the issue with Welcome (and possibly this service) if he remains  unhappy.
Mr P doesnt  think Welcome should be chasing him for the debt because he considers its 
time-barred by statute.  Its beyond the remit of this service  to say whether or not a debt is 
time-barred, as that can only be decided by a court. 
Ref: DRN76316542But its not in dispute that Welcome loaned the money to Mr P. So on the face of it I dont 
think its unreasonable for Welcome to try to recover what  he owes. I havent seen anything  
that makes me think its doing so unfairly here.
I am mindful,  however, of Mr Ps particular circumstances and the health issues he is facing. 
As the adjudicator has already said, I would encourage Mr P to contact Welcome to discuss  
his situation. Welcome should treat Mr P positively and sympathetically  in trying to find an 
acceptable basis for repaying  the debt. 
Mr P has suggested the original loan was mis-sold by Welcome.  I cant  see that Mr P has 
complained to Welcome  about this, and he will need  to do so to give Welcome an 
opportunity to respond to the points  hes making.  If Mr P isnt happy with Welcomes  
response, he may then be able to refer the matter to this service for further consideration. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7631654