K820x#14Complaint
Mr E says Barclays  Bank UK PLC should have done  more  to stop him falling victim to a 
scam and that it should reimburse the money he lost.
Background
At around 13:49  on 9 April 2018, Mr E authorised  an online payment of £1,914 on the 
instruction of who he believed was someone  from Barclays fraud team.  He contacted  
Barclays within the hour to confirm  hed been  the victim of a scam  hed been tricked  into 
thinking his bank account was no longer  secure  and that he needed  to transfer  his money to 
another account to keep it safe.  
Barclays records indicated that the funds had been withdrawn from the beneficiary account 
by the time Mr E had informed it of what had happened. Barclays confirmed to Mr E that it 
was unable to refund the money  hed lost. However,  it did agree to pay him £10 to cover the 
overdraft charges hed incurred  as a result of the payment and a further £50 for his distress.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr E complained to us. Our adjudicator thought  Barclays 
had done as much as it could to help, so they didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld. 
Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review  
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
Ref: DRN74265282identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr E when he transferred £1,914 , or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr E lost this money. But, having looked at the circumstances, I do 
think Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in allowing the money  to leave Mr Es account. 
And I dont  think the steps it took to try and recover funds from the beneficiary  bank account 
caused him any loss. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse Mr E for the money he lost. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Es accepted that he authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, Barclays had an 
obligation to follow Mr Es instruction. But there  are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payment in terms of either its value or the payment type that ought to have alerted 
Barclays to the scam. I can see from Barclays records of Mr Es account activity  that hed 
used mobile banking before to make a payment, albeit that was for a lower amount. 
Nevertheless, I dont think there  was cause for Barclays systems to flag the payment as 
suspicious.
Mr E quickly  contacted Barclays when he became aware hed been the victim  of a scam  
within an hour of authorising the payment. Barclays was able to view the details  of the 
beneficiary account and could see that, unfortunately, the funds had been withdrawn even 
before Mr E had got in touch.  I dont find that surprising given how quickly  scammers 
typically withdraw funds.   
This experience was clearly very upsetting  for Mr E. But, in the circumstances, I cant fairly  
say that Barclays should  have done more to prevent him from losing his money. Barclays 
isnt responsible for Mr E having fallen victim to a scam and I think it did all it reasonably 
Ref: DRN74265283could to help once it knew what had happened. So, in my view it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Barclays to compensate Mr E for his loss.
That said,  Barclays has acknowledged  that Mr E incurred overdraft fees as a result  of the 
scam and suffered distress and inconvenience.  It offered to pay him £10 and £50 
respectively for those  losses,  and I think that was more  than fair. As such,  I dont think  
Barclays needs to pay him any more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7426528