K821x#15complaint
Mr W says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six short term loans which Mr W says were lent irresponsibly to him. 
Quick Quid provided the loans  to Mr W between June 2016 and February 2018.
Some details of Mr Ws loans are as follows:
loan 
numberapplication dateprincipal 
amountnumber of 
repayments repayment  datehighest 
repayment
1 07 June  2016 £300.00 2 12 August 2016 £367.20
2 15 February  2017 £200.00 1 24 March 2017 £259.20
3 31 March 2017 £250.00 3 16 June  2017 £306.00
4 06 September  2017 £450.00 3 01 December  2017 £550.80
5 07 December  2017 £200.00 2 26 January 2018 £244.80
6 10 February  2018 £300.00 3* not repaid £367.20
*loan six was not repaid  in full as the third interest payment and capital repayment were  not 
made.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint in part and thought that loans one to four and loan 
six shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
I set out my provisional  findings on this complaint in my provisional decision dated June 
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint in relation to 
loans three  to six. I invited  both parties  to let me have any further  comments  and evidence. 
Quick Quid responded  with a number of points as to why it didnt agree with my provisional 
findings. Mr W didnt respond.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to my provisional decision Quick Quid responded to my point about the 
lending relationship being unsustainable from loan three onwards. It insisted that a review  of 
Mr Ws bank statements  would be necessary to establish whether the repayment of Mr Ws 
loans was genuinely unsustainable.  
As Ive already  said, loans three and four were taken in short  succession  of the previous 
loans Mr W had taken, and were  for larger amounts. So although Ive thought  about what  
Quick Quid has said, I dont find it necessary to review Mr Ws bank statements in order to 
Ref: DRN75985922find the information that Quick Quid already knew  which is that he was more  than likely 
having to borrow  again to cover the hole that repaying the previous  loan was leaving in his 
finances. So I still think Quick Quid shouldve done more to get an understanding of Mr Ws 
financial situation before  lending to him from loan three onwards.
I should also mention  that the pattern of lending had become unsustainable by the time 
Mr W had been borrowing with Quick  Quid for over a year.  In my provisional  decision I said:
Mr W wasn't making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick Quid. Loan 
five was taken  around a year and a half after Mr Ws first loan. And loan six was 
for the same amount  as he initially borrowed  in June 2016. So Mr W had paid 
large amounts of interest  to, in effect,  service  a debt to Quick  Quid over an 
extended period  of time.
So I think that Quick  Quid should've realised  that the overall  pattern of lending 
was unsustainable  before it lent the fifth loan to Mr W. And I think  that Mr W lost 
out because Quick Quid continued to provide  borrowing  from then on.
Quick Quid has also highlighted that Mr W didnt  have  any repayment problems with his 
early loans. As Quick  Quid  should  know, and as I explained in my provisional  decision, 
repayment of a loan does  not indicate that the lending  relationship  is sustainable. So this 
point doesnt change my decision.
Having considered everything  carefully  again,  including the additional points, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I uphold  this complaint about  loans  three to six.
putting things right
Now that Ive made my decision I require  Quick Quid to:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans three to six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were  paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove  any negative  information about loans  three and four from Mr Ws credit file;
remove  all entries about loans five and six from Mr Ws credit file. This is because the 
length of the lending relationship  from loan five onwards means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse in itself;
I understand that loan six hasnt been  repaid. Quick Quid should  remove any 
outstanding interest  and charges  that make up this outstanding balance. It can deduct 
any outstanding capital  that it is still owed  from the amount of refund it pays Mr W. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN75985923For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint in part  
about loans three to six  and I require CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right by doing 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75985924EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED JUNE 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
In response to our adjudication, Quick Quid didnt agree  that it had done anything wrong during the 
course of lending to Mr W. It also said:
We started implementing changes  to the affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the changes  
were completed by Feb 28th 2015. Starting 1st March 2015 before Mr W borrowed his fifth loan, 
Quick Quid  had implemented an affordability review that is consistent with the FCA Handbook  and 
that was in place at the time we received  authorisation by the FCA.  We confirm that this assessment 
was conducted properly and individually for each  of these loans.
 
It provided further detail about the checks it had made  when it approved  loans from 2015 onwards in 
a document called CEU Lending Criteria and Proportional Checks.  
This service has responded to Quick Quid on this generic argument  directly and through  earlier  final 
decisions. So although Im not going to expand on this point any further here, Ive considered it 
alongside everything else in making my decision. And so my decision focusses  on the specifics of Mr 
Ws complaint and what both parties have said about this.
Quick Quid  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr W could  repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during which  a 
customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish whether Mr W could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  
and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
Ref: DRN75985925And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
I currently think that it was reasonable for Quick Quid to lend the first two loans to
Mr W. But I dont think it shouldve lent loans three to six to him. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ws first loan was for £300, to be repaid over three  payments.  The first two payments just repaid 
interest, and the final payment included  interest for the final month, as well as repaying the loan 
capital. 
Quick Quid  has shown that it asked Mr W about his income and expenditure  before  approving this 
loan, and it says it performed a credit  check, as indeed  it has said it did each time it lent. 
According to the figures Mr W declared during the application process,  he had £333 disposable 
income left each month. Although the final payment of the first loan was higher  than this, at just over 
£367, I dont think it was unreasonable for Quick Quid to make a lending decision on the basis that Mr 
W could potentially reserve some of his disposable income during months one and two to go towards  
making his final loan repayment in loan three. After all, this was a new lending  relationship and Quick  
Quid didnt have any reason  to believe Mr W couldnt  do that. Its also worth noting that in months one 
and two, the interest  amounts payable were £91.20 and £67.20. So even with the relatively low 
amount of disposable income  that Mr W had, its not unreasonable for Quick  Quid to lend on the basis 
that Mr W could set some  of that aside to put towards his the final loan repayment.
By the time Mr W took his second loan, he hadnt borrowed with Quick  quid for around six months.  
Given hed only borrowed once before, and the second loan was for a lower  amount than the first, it 
was reasonable for Quick  Quid to treat this loan as a new lending  relationship. So although the final 
repayment of £259.20 still took up a substantial  amount  of Mr Ws disposable  income (which  Quick 
Quid still had recorded  as £333), I dont  think it was unfair for Quick  Quid to expect that Mr W could  
manage that.
Mr W took loan three a week after repaying loan two. The amount was higher than loan two, and the 
loan was to be repaid over a longer period. And loan four was again  for a larger  amount, albeit after a 
short gap  but not one that Id consider to be a considerable break  in lending. 
Given these facts,  I think Quick Quid  should  reasonably have been aware that Mr W was likely 
borrowing to cover  the hole in his finances that repaying  his previous loans was leaving  when he 
asked for loans three and four. The final repayment of loan three was also higher  and was only 
slightly less than Mr Ws total declared disposable income at £306.  And the final repayment of loan 
four was almost  one and a half times his disposable income  over £550 against a disposable income  
of £383.
Quick Quid  says that each time it lent to Mr W he agreed to a disclaimer  showing he was aware  hed 
need to set aside money during the course of each loan, in order  to make the final repayment. Whilst 
Ive seen this disclaimer, and in theory, Mr W did agree to it, I dont think that means  what Quick  Quid 
did was fair. It doesnt negate Quick  Quids  responsibility to ensure the borrowing was sustainable.  
And so I think  it was no longer fair for it to lend to Mr W on the basis that he could potentially save 
money to manage  his repayments over the loan term.  
And the way Mr W was borrowing, and the repayment amounts of his loans, shouldve  alerted it to the 
fact that Mr Ws financial  situation mayve been worsening. And that he mayve been relying on short-
term credit for a purpose which  was not, in fact, short-term. So I dont think it was right to lend to him 
on these occasions. 
Ref: DRN75985926Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Mr Ws borrowing history with Quick Quid, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which  Quick Quid should reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. Thats  to say, a point at which  Quick Quid  should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan five. I 
say this because:
loan five was provided within six days of Mr W settling his previous loan. So Quick Quid  ought  
to have  realised  it was more likely  than not Mr W was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances. This in turn wouldve led it to realise that 
Mr Ws indebtedness  was continuing unsustainably.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick  Quid. Loan five was taken  
around a year and a half after Mr Ws first loan. And loan six was for the same amount as he 
initially borrowed in June 2016.  So Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  
a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended  period of time.
So I think that quick Quid shouldve realised  that the overall pattern of lending was unsustainable 
before it lent the fifth loan to Mr W. And I think that Mr W lost out because Quick Quid  continued  to 
provide borrowing from then on. I say this because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans was likely  to have had negative implications  on 
Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit  and so unfairly kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently intend to uphold the complaint about loans three to six, so I 
think Quick  Quid should put things right in relation  to those loans.
Ref: DRN7598592