K821x#15Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms D says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card 
taken out in 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt agree so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
I think this complaint should be upheld and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
This policy was taken out by completing  an application form in a store. FICL has said that no 
advice was given  to Ms D about the PPI and so the policy wasnt recommended to her. Ms D 
also agreed that no advice was given  at the time.  So as a non-advised sale FICL didnt have 
to check that the policy was right for her but it did need to give her clear enough information 
to enable her to decide for herself  if this cover was right for her.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Ms D owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Ms D couldnt  work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
As this policy was taken  out in a store, I dont  know  for sure what  was said to Ms D. So I 
havent any evidence  to show that Ms D was given clear information about  the cost of the 
policy, in real terms. Its possible  FICL  may have explained the amount she would pay for 
each pound she spent  on the card, but I dont know if it explained  that interest would be 
charged on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that she would  need  to 
keep paying the premiums  during  a claim.  So I dont think  its likely Ms D would have been 
made aware  of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Ms D as she has told us that she was working  for the 
local council  at the time of taking out the policy, and wouldve received 6 months full, 
followed by 6 months half sick pay. Shes  also said she had savings which  wouldve covered 
her for 3 to 6 months. From what we know about jobs in this sector,  I think  its likely she 
wouldve received  a generous level of sick pay. And I havent  seen reason to doubt what  
Ms D has said about her sick pay and savings.  
Im aware that the benefit of the policy was relatively high, but so was the cost. And given 
what we know about the employee  benefits Ms D would  have  been  likely to receive as a 
Ref: DRN79307202result of her job role, together  with her other means,  I dont think that Ms D would have 
thought the policy was value for money if she had fully understood the costs.
So overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  that FICL gave clear enough 
information to Ms D to enable her to decide if the policy  was right for her. And, if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
value for money.  So I think Ms D has lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
Putting things  right
FICL should put Ms D in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms D would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. 
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those . 
It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well 
as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms D made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Ms D would have owed  
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when FICL works  out what Ms D would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms D paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms D would  
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL  should tell Ms D what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I uphold this complaint and instruct  FICL to compensate 
Ms D as outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7930720