K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Preferred Mortgages  Limited (Preferred) didnt  treat him fairly when it 
was seeking his eviction from his property.
background
In 2007, Mr J took out a mortgage  of just over £50,000 on capital and interest repayment 
terms. The mortgage was originally in joint names  with Mr Js ex-partner. She was removed 
from the mortgage in 2008.
Unfortunately, Mr J struggled to manage his monthly payments and the mortgage fell into 
arrears. In 2009, Preferred obtained  a suspended possession  order.
A different ombudsman  previously reached a decision about Preferred not removing Mr Js 
ex-partner from the title, and not adding  her back on to the mortgage, as well as the fees and 
charges applied to the account.
In 2016, Preferred took further legal action and the court issued a possession  order. It 
sought to obtain an eviction notice  in 2017, but ultimately Mr J sold the property and 
redeemed the mortgage.
In summary,  Mr J complains that Preferred  didnt follow the relevant regulations  and that:
Preferred shouldnt  have taken possession or eviction  action  when it did;
Preferred failed  to communicate with him to reach a payment arrangement;  and
Preferred refused to speak with him or a third party, a property  developer interested 
in purchasing the property that was willing  to pay off the arrears,  meaning an offer to 
purchase the property  fell through.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint comes to me 
to decide.
Mr J has raised  further complaints with Preferred, both with our service and the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) regarding the information reported to his credit  file. 
We are considering that complaint under a separate reference.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the tough time Mr Js had over the years 
and the health problems  Mr J has experienced.
Its clear Mr J has very strong feelings  about this complaint. Hes provided  detailed 
submissions which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  But I hope Mr J 
will understand that I havent  responded to every point. Ive set out what  I consider to be the 
key issues and my findings on them. And Ive explained why Im not going to consider some  
of the points hes made.
Ref: DRN75052682Mr J has raised  further points about  the issues a different  ombudsman  reached a decision 
about previously,  including the charges applied to his account. An ombudsmans decision is 
the final stage  of our process. That means we wont look at issues  an ombudsman has 
already decided again, unless theres  material new evidence likely to change  the outcome.  
While Mr J is unhappy with the outcome of the previous case  he hasnt provided material 
new evidence, so I wont be considering those complaint points further.
Turning to this complaint,  Ive seen that a court issued  a possession order  in 2016. Im not 
able to change  or overturn a court judgment  which  means  I cant say whether or not a 
possession order should have been  granted. But I can consider whether or not it was fair 
that Preferred took legal action when it did.
Mr J believes  the balances on his account were incorrect at the time Preferred took 
possession action, and had Preferred calculated the mortgage balance  correctly action 
wouldnt have been warranted. 
Mortgage accounts are complicated, and involve complex calculations. I wont say there are 
never any computing errors, but theyre not as common as people might  think. Were not an 
auditing service, but looking at the transaction history I cant see any errors.
Part of the issue is that Mr J thinks that a possession order would never  have been  granted 
had fees and charges not been on his account.  As Ive said above, weve already considered  
a complaint about the charges applied to Mr Js account and issued a decision about  them   
so I wont comment on them further. But I note that since then Preferred refunded  fees of 
just over £300 following the redemption  of the mortgage (which had been applied to the 
balance twice), and around  a further £320 following his recent  complaint to the ICO. 
Preferred says the fees it refunded recently were charged fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions at the time, but has refunded some of them as a gesture of goodwill now. 
That said,  I dont think the refunded  charges would have impacted Preferreds decision to 
take legal  action, and I think its decision to take legal action was reasonable. Ill now explain 
why.
At the time Preferred took legal action, and later when  it sought eviction, it was only 
receiving payments from the Department for Work and Pensions, which didnt cover the full 
monthly payment.  The account was more than three  months payments in arrears and the 
arrears balance was increasing month on month   meaning Mr Js position  could worsen  if 
Preferred took no action. To be clear, the arrears  were because  of missed  payments and 
under-payments, not because of fees and charges.  
Mr J complains that Preferred failed to discuss payment arrangements with him prior to 
seeking the possession order and later when it looked at obtaining  an eviction warrant, and 
so failed to follow the rules  set by the regulator. He also complains it failed to speak with a 
third party (a property developer) which was willing to clear  the arrears  balance. 
Ive carefully considered  the contact notes  for the account as well as Mr Js testimony about 
what happened and the relevant regulations.
I can see Mr J called Preferred several times  during the period in question.  At times  he was 
able to make  payment  arrangements,  but at other times he wasnt. In November 2016, 
Preferred took the decision  to no longer speak with Mr J by phone due to the way hed 
previously spoken  to staff.  It asked  Mr J to communicate with them in writing  moving  
Ref: DRN75052683forward. Mr J was aware of that, and had made  payments multiple times through other 
methods, such as online. He wasnt dependent on using the phone to make payments. 
Mr J describes himself as vulnerable, due to the mental health condition he has. He says 
Preferred failed to follow the relevant regulations about how it should treat vulnerable  
consumers. Ive thought carefully  about what happened, and those regulations.
Preferred has a duty to make itself accessible to customers  who might need  it to 
communicate in a different way, and to support  customers with vulnerabilities.  But I dont 
think that means it always has to communicate  with those customers by phone,  or allow  its 
staff to be subject to abusive  conduct by those  customers. Overall, I dont think Preferred 
acted unreasonably in refusing to speak  with Mr J by phone in light of the wider  
circumstances. It made other  methods of communication available  to him, and I think  that 
was reasonable.
I also dont think it was unreasonable Preferred  refused to speak with the property 
developer. It didnt have  the correct authorisation from Mr J, and it has a duty not to disclose 
his personal information to third parties  without  his proper consent.  
Mr J says that Preferreds refusal  to speak with the property  developer  caused the sale of 
the property to fall through. I havent seen any evidence of why the property developer pulled 
out of the sale,  and there are many  reasons an offer to purchase a property may not go 
ahead. Overall, on balance, Im cant reasonably  conclude the sale fell through  due to 
Preferreds actions.
In July 2017, Preferred wrote  to Mr J to explain they were seeking an eviction date from the 
court. In August 2017, Mr J made our service  aware hed received a further offer to purchase 
the property and we passed that information on to Preferred. I can see that, once it received 
the correct authority, it provided information  to the acting solicitor on request.
To cancel  the eviction  action, Preferred asked Mr J for specific information about the sale of 
the property. And, once  it received that information,  it cancelled  the eviction. Overall,  I think  
that was reasonable. Mr J was then able to sell the property. 
For these reasons, although  I appreciate  Mr J feels very strongly  about  this complaint and 
my decision  will come as a disappointment to him, I think Preferred acted reasonably  under 
the scope of this complaint, and I do not uphold it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505268