K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs T was sold the policy when she took out a loan in 1995. To pay for her PPI, it was added  
onto Mrs Ts loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. The PPI 
covered Mrs Ts loan repayments  in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Mrs Ts PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain  why.
Because the sale was so long ago, neither  side have the original documents.  But Lloyds 
have given us a sample copy of the credit  agreement  Mrs T wouldve used at the time. From 
that, it looks like the PPI wouldve been described as optional and Mrs T wouldve been 
given the option to take it out or turn it down. And then in order  to get the policy,  she 
wouldve had to actively choose it. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mrs T aware 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  even if, 
understandably, she no longer remembers doing  so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs T, so they had to check it was right for her. And based  
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, Mrs T wasnt 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. The PPI covered her for longer 
than her sick pay, and paid out on top of that. And Mrs T didnt have any other cover in case 
she lost her job, aside from limited savings  which  wouldve only lasted so long when theyd 
have been needed for all her living costs. I understand  Mrs Ts partner may have been 
willing to help, but circumstances change and there  was always the chance theyd be unable 
to help when needed. Further, this loan was Mrs Ts sole responsibility, and I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable for Lloyds  to have recommended  she rely on someone else to pay it. 
Whereas the PPI meant Mrs T wouldnt have to ask her partner to pay her loan. So it looks 
like the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs T in case she fell on difficult  times.
Mrs T wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the policy 
early. But I havent  seen anything to suggest she thought shed repay the loan early  when 
she first took it out. For instance, it wasnt set up to run for a particularly long time,  and it 
doesnt look like she had a history of refinancing her loans early.  So I think  the policy was 
still probably right for Mrs T, and I dont think better information about  the cancellation terms 
wouldve stopped  her from buying  it.
Ref: DRN76943662Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like Mrs T was affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went  
wrong. And given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs T made a successful 
claim she couldve got back quite  a bit more than she paid for it. So overall,  I dont think  that 
better information about the PPI was likely  to have put her off taking  it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7694366