K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint relates  to the balance outstanding on her mortgage with Bank  of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background
Miss C took out a mortgage of £35,890 with Halifax in August 2002.
Miss C contacted Halifax in 2018  and asked for a redemption figure. But she was unhappy 
with the figure she was given. She said that it was the same amount she had borrowed 16 
years ago. And she wanted  to understand why her balance has not reduced.  
Miss C says she didnt receive  a response from Halifax  and made a formal  complaint. But 
Halifax didnt uphold  her complaint. It said that she had previously raised  her concerns about 
the redemption  figure  in 2016. It had issued a final response letter at that time. It had also 
written to her in June  2018 regarding the status  of her mortgage account.  
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but felt that Halifax had dealt with it fairly. She said, 
in summary:
Halifax had issued  a final response  in May 2016  with regard to Miss Cs redemption 
figure and the balance  on her mortgage account. So she had only reviewed  the balance  
from May 2016  onwards;
The statements shed reviewed showed  that in May 2016 Miss Cs account was in 
arrears by approximately £3,000.  The account  remained in arrears and the arrears 
balance went up to around £9000 in December  2017. Although Miss C made payments 
towards her account, these didnt cover her contractual payments. She had also missed  
payments and failed  to make payments on the due date.
Failing to make  regular payments and underpaying  meant that the intended  payment 
schedule wasnt met and the balance on the loan account wasnt being paid off.
The overall balance  was higher than it should  be at this stage  of Miss Cs mortgage cycle 
as she had not been making regular contractual payments and the account remained in 
arrears. If the arrears were  cleared  and Miss C was able to maintain her contractual  
payments then the overall balance would  be less.
She could see that the balance had reduced from when Miss C initially took out her 
mortgage. While she appreciated that Miss C would have  liked to have seen a further 
reduction in her balance,  she couldnt say that Halifax  had made  an error or that the 
balance had not reduced.
Miss C doesnt agree  with the investigators  view and so her complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Halifax has dealt with Miss Cs complaint fairly. 
As our investigator explained, I am only able to look at the balance  of her mortgage account  
from May 2016. This is because Miss C previously  made a complaint about the redemption 
figure and Halifax  issued a final response at that time. As Miss C referred her complaint  to 
Ref: DRN79313712this service more than six months  after the date of that final response  letter,  I can only look 
at things that happened after that time.
Having looked  at Miss Cs mortgage  account from May 2016, I can see that at that time 
there were arrears on the account of around  £3,000. The arrears then increased to around  
£9,000 by December 2017, and in January 2019 were around £5,500.
I note that although Miss C has made  payments to her account these payments were  
generally less than the contractual  monthly  payment.  There were also months in which  no 
payments were made.  And, although  I can see that she did pay in some  lump sums these 
werent sufficient to clear  the arrears.
I agree  with our investigator that the failure to meet the intended payment schedule has 
meant that the balance on Miss Cs loan account wasnt  being paid off. This in turn means 
that the overall balance is higher than it should be at this stage. In addition,  certain  fees and 
charges have been added to the account because of the payment  issues,  although I note 
that some  have been refunded by Halifax.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded  that Halifax  has made an error in relation to 
the balance of Miss Cs mortgage account. So I dont require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7931371