K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Ms B say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1998  when they took out their mortgage and in 2004  
when they took some  further borrowing.
Mr B and Ms B have been represented  throughout their complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 25 June 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Broadly summarised:
I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Which meant I didnt think HSBC  had to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms B. 
But I was of the opinion that HSBC should pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B and Ms B. This was because HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  which it should have told Mr B and 
Ms B about. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr B and Ms B, that was unfair. To put that 
right, HSBC basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I thought that was fair in this case.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
The PPI wasnt mis-sold. So HSBC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B and Ms B.
But HSBC  does have  to pay back to Mr B and Ms B any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC, in accordance  with the FCAs rules and guidance, has to pay back to Mr B and Ms B 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  HSBC 
should also pay back to Mr B and Ms B any extra interest they paid because  of that.
Ref: DRN76789792HSBC should  pay back to Mr and Ms B the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also 
pay Mr B and Ms B 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B and Ms B can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
I note that Ms B entered into bankruptcy and the official receiver of her bankruptcy  has 
declared an interest in her half of any compensation. HSBC  should take this into account 
when it pays compensation as I set out above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. So 
HSBC UK Bank Plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms B.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B and Ms B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
As Ms B entered into bankruptcy and the official receiver of her bankruptcy has declared an 
interest in her half of any compensation, HSBC  UK Bank Plc should take this into account 
when it pays compensation as I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76789793Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B and Ms B say HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1998 when they took out their mortgage  and in 2004 when they took some 
further borrowing.
Mr B and Ms B have been represented throughout their complaint.
background
The policies sold in 1998 and 2004 covered both Mr B and Ms B equally. Mr B and Ms B paid a 
monthly amount for the policies. In the event of a successful claim, for accident or sickness or if they 
became unemployed,  the PPI would  have  covered  the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Mr B and Ms B say that with both the sale of the PPI in 1998 and 2004, they were  told by the sales 
adviser they had to take PPI in order to get the lending. 
Theres only limited information available about  both sales of PPI. 
None of the paperwork from the original sale in 1998 is available. HSBC couldnt  confirm  how the 
mortgage or PPI was sold. But HSBCs records show Mr B and Ms B had a PPI policy that started in 
June 1998 that protected Mr B and Ms Bs mortgage  which was also taken  at the same time. The 
policy cost £26.71  per month and in the event  of a successful claim it provided a monthly  benefit  of 
£450.
With the further borrowing in 2004 there is a little more  information  available. HSBC  have provided an 
electronic mortgage application record and the equity release loan agreement  form. These show the 
further advance was taken  in December  2004. It was at this time that the policy  benefit was increased  
to provide a further £300 worth of cover.
So in total, from 2004, Mr B and Ms B were paying a monthly  amount of £44.55 which  provided  a 
monthly benefit of £750.
Mr B and Ms B told us the mortgage and the PPI were arranged during a meeting  in branch and it 
was the same process in 2004 when they took the further  advance.
Ive taken all this information into account when thinking  about this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel there was enough evidence  to uphold this complaint. 
Mr B and Ms B disagreed  with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt  been resolved the 
complaint has been passed  to me to make a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Mrs Bs case.
Ref: DRN76789794As our adjudicator  explained, we dont have all of the information  from the time of the sale in this 
case. That isnt surprising given the sales took place so long ago. That said, Ive still reached a 
conclusion taking into account  the available  evidence, knowledge and experience of these types of 
sales and whats fair to both parties.
Having done so, Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know how HSBC  would have  presented PPI to Mr B and Ms B or explained  it to them during 
any discussions.  As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale of each PPI policy, I cant  say for 
sure that Mr B and Ms B were told they had the option of refusing PPI, or that they agreed for it to be 
added. Equally, theres nothing to show the PPI wasnt presented to them as optional or that they 
didnt choose to go ahead  with it. 
I dont expect HSBC to keep records indefinitely.  And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B and 
Ms B to remember  exactly what   they were told when  they took out PPI as the sales happened so 
long ago. I dont think it is fair to solely  rely on what Mr B and Ms B say happened. Memories can, and 
do, fade naturally over time.  I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most  likely. 
For example, Mr B and Ms B say that with both the sale of the PPI in 1998 and 2004,  they were told 
that they needed to take PPI in order to get the mortgage and further borrowing. But its just as likely, 
as the sale was in branch and they were discussing their mortgage  with an adviser, Mr B and Ms B 
were told they should consider taking out the PPI, rather than they had to.
In order  to uphold Mr B and Ms Bs complaint Id have to find that its likely  they werent given a fair 
choice about PPI. 
Overall, I dont think the evidence  is strong enough for me to say that HSBC didnt  make it clear that it 
was open to Mr B and Ms B not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have  it.
The mortgage  and further borrowing was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of 
years. Mr B and Ms Bs home would have been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr B and Ms B might have felt PPI was useful to have. On balance, I think  its 
more likely  that Mr B and Ms B decided  they wanted to have the benefits the policy could offer and it 
was added  when they decided to buy the policy. 
As such, I dont uphold the complaint  on this basis.
As Mr B and Ms B have  said the sales happened in branch, I think theres  a chance that HSBC might 
have advised them to have  the cover. To be as fair as possible to Mr B and Ms B, Im going to assess  
their complaint this way. If a business makes  a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information  in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover it recommends is suitable.
It doesnt  look to me as if PPI was unsuitable for Mr B and Ms B based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. 
Mr B and Ms B have confirmed  that their circumstances in 1998 and 2004 were the same.
Both Mr B and Ms B were eligible for the PPI and met the requirements to have the cover.
Ms B received some  sick pay from her employer if she was unable to work because  of an accident or 
sickness. Mr B says he didnt receive any sick pay from his employer. And both Mr B and Ms B say 
they didnt have savings  or other  insurance  policies that they could  have used to make their 
repayments if they were  out of work  or unable  to work.
Ref: DRN76789795The PPI would have  covered  the mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months for each claim  if Mr B and 
Ms B were unable  to work because of an accident or sickness. In Ms Bs case, it also would have paid 
out on top of sick pay she received  and for longer. 
The PPI would have  also covered the mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months for each claim for 
unemployment. As the mortgage was taken  out when  both Mr B and Ms B were in paid work, I think  it 
might have been difficult for them to manage the mortgage monthly repayments for very long if either  
of them lost their job unexpectedly. 
So, all things  considered, I think it would  have  provided a useful benefit. 
The PPI didnt  cover  some  things. But it doesnt look as if that would  have affected either  Mr B or Ms 
B. So, I dont  think more  information about the policy exclusions and limitations would have made  any 
difference to Mr B and Ms Bs decision  to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr B and Ms B when they bought the PPI. But, Ive 
seen nothing  to suggest  that they couldnt afford the monthly  premiums.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt give Mr B and Ms B clear information about all aspects of the PPI. But 
I think  its likely that Mr B and Ms B chose to take out the policies and I can see why they might have 
thought it could be useful.  Taking all their circumstances  into account, even if there were failings in 
the way HSBC sold them  the PPI, I dont think that better information would have put Mr B and Ms B 
off having it. 
I have carefully considered  what Mr B and Ms B have  said, including what they have said about the 
sale. But for the reasons given above, these points dont change  my decision.
All things considered, based on the available  information I have regarding the sales,  the PPI policies  
and Mr B and Ms Bs circumstances, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms B.
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms B because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told Mr B and Ms B about that. Because HSBC didnt  tell Mr B and Ms B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Mr B and Ms Bs representative says there have been other court cases in relation to non-disclosure 
of commission where consumers have received everything  back. So they say Mr B and Ms B should 
receive more in compensation. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) published rules and guidance about how firms that are 
lenders should assess a complaint  to establish whether  failure to disclose commission  gave rise to an 
unfair relationship  under  section 140A  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA). And how they should 
determine the appropriate redress (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN76789796HSBC, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance, looked at Mr B and Ms Bs PPI. HSBC said that the 
level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair  relationship. So to put things right 
it offered to refund  the extra Mr B and Ms B paid each month for the time the commission and profit 
share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Its offer also includes 8% per year simple  
interest to compensate Mr and Ms B for any time they were out of pocket.  
Mr B and Ms Bs representatives say that because there have been other court  cases  where  
consumers have  received  everything back,  Mr B and Ms B should  receive more in compensation. 
One of the things we take into account when  deciding  what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint is the law. But we also need to take into account relevant regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  we consider to be 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case, HSBC has made Mr B and Ms B an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line  with the methods  set out by the FCA. But Mr B and Ms Bs 
representatives want  HSBC  to do something different than the rules and guidance as set out by the 
financial regulator. 
We do look at the particular circumstances of each complaint and each consumer to see if theres 
anything about them that would mean the business should do something different  if the remedies 
set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress for that individual consumer. 
But there isnt anything about Mr B and Ms Bs complaint that suggests  the redress offered by HSBC 
isnt fair or reasonable.
I accept that if Mr B and Ms B went to court and it was decided there was an unfair relationship under  
section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act, they might be awarded a full refund of the premiums they 
paid  this would be a remedy available.  And this is a route thats available to Mr B and Ms B if they 
dont accept my decision. 
In this case, I think HSBCs offer is a fair way to resolve matters.
what the business needs to do
HSBC, in accordance  with the FCAs rules and guidance, has to pay back to Mr B and Ms B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also 
pay back to Mr B and Ms B any extra interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should pay back to Mr and Ms B the extra  they paid each  month because  the commission and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr B and Ms B 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B and Ms B can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
I note that Ms B entered into bankruptcy and the official receiver of her bankruptcy has declared  an 
interest in her half of any compensation.  HSBC  should take this into account  when it pays 
compensation as I set out above. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC 
UK Bank  Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms B.
Ref: DRN76789797But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr B and Ms B any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I invite all parties  to provide  me with anything  further they wish for me to consider by 25 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7678979