K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MI Vehicle  Finance Limited,  trading  as Mann  Island,  was misrepresented to her and about  
the service that shes received from the dealer.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss M under a hire purchase agreement with Mann Island  that 
was dated May 2018. The car was only supplied with one key and she says that she was 
told that a remote  key had been  ordered. She then received a replacement key that wasnt  a 
remote key and didnt  work. She was then told that the key needed to be unlocked by a 
manufacturers dealer.
She complained to Mann Island and said that the car had been misrepresented  to her and she 
wanted to reject the car. It said that the service  that shed received from the dealer was below 
its expectations and that the dealer should  have provided her with a spare  key quicker  than it 
took and that the key should  have been useable. But it didnt believe that rejection  was an 
appropriate outcome  as the car wasnt faulty  and Miss M had the ability  to rectify  the issue 
regarding use of the spare key. It offered her £100  as a gesture  of goodwill to compensate her 
for any inconvenience  but she rejected its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
the car hadnt  been misrepresented to Miss M, that shed received a second key and that 
Mann Islands offer to pay her £100  was fair and reasonable.
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
didnt receive what  she was promised and was inconvenienced for six months. She says that 
she didnt accept the £100  compensation and she also says that she had to pay for the cars  
gearbox to be replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence that Ive seen, it seems that there was no issue about the key until the 
car was being delivered to Miss M. At that time she became aware  that there was only one 
key for the car and she needed two keys. She says that she was told that a remote  key 
would be ordered  for her but she didnt receive a remote key, there was a delay in the spare  
key being received and, when she did receive  it, it didnt work. She was then told that she 
needed to take the key to a manufacturers dealer so that it could be unlocked. 
Its my understanding that she now has two working  keys for the car but that neither of them 
is a remote key. The dealer says that the car wasnt advertised as having a remote  key and 
it never had one because the manufacturer has confirmed that a remote  key wasnt  available  
for that model of car.
Ref: DRN74572612Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the dealer or Mann Island or that 
she was induced into entering into the agreement  for the car by a misrepresentation by the 
dealer or Mann Island.  Miss M received the car that Mann Island had agreed to supply to her 
and Ive seen  no evidence to show that she was told that the car would be provided with two 
keys or that the key would  be a remote key. So I dont consider  that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mann  Island  to allow Miss M to reject the car.
Miss M has complained about the service that shes received  from the dealer. She says that 
she didnt receive  what  the dealer promised her and she suffered inconvenience for six 
months. But those were issues between her and the dealer and I dont consider that Mann 
Island is responsible for the inconvenience  that shes been caused  as a result  of them.  
When she complained  to Mann Island it offered her £100 as a gesture of goodwill to 
compensate her for any inconvenience. She didnt accept that offer. 
Miss M has said in an e-mail to this service that the cars gear box had to be replaced  after 
only four months  which cost her £350. But Ive seen no evidence to show that her complaint 
about the remote key also included a complaint  about the quality of the car because  of the 
issue with the gearbox.  Im unable to consider  the issue with the gearbox as part of this 
complaint. If Miss M wants to complain about  the quality of the car because of the gearbox 
issue, she should first complain to Mann Island. Then, if shes not satisfied with its response, 
she may be able to make a separate complaint about that issue to this service.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Mann  Island has acted 
incorrectly in these  circumstances.  So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to pay any compensation  to Miss M  or to take any other action in response  to her 
complaint. If she now wants to accept the £100 gesture of goodwill that Mann Island has 
offered her, I suggest that she contacts it to see if the offer remains  available  to her.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7457261