K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Loans  2 Go Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M was given  a single loan by Loans  2 Go. He borrowed  £250 in April 2018  and agreed to 
repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Mr M successfully repaid the loan in May 2019.
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that the 
checks Loans 2 Go had done  before agreeing  the loan had been sufficient. And she thought 
that better  checks would  have led to Loans 2 Go discovering that it was unlikely Mr M would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. So she thought  the complaint should be 
upheld and asked  Loans 2 Go to pay Mr M some compensation.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave  this loan to Mr M required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what  he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Loans 2 Go had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments  wouldnt 
cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN73879542the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed  to before agreeing  
to lend to Mr M.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical  data 
to revise Mr Ms declared expenditure  upwards. And it checked his credit file to review his 
use of other  credit facilities.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I would  expect  that Loans 2 Go would 
want to gather, and independently check,  some detailed information about  Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think  that the checks it did were 
enough. I think it would have been  proportionate  for Loans 2 Go to independently check  the 
true state of Mr Ms finances  before agreeing the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks Loans 2 Go did before  agreeing  the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean  that Mr Ms complaint should succeed. Id also need to 
be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown 
Loans 2 Go that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.  So Ive looked  at Mr Ms 
bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  Loans  2 Go.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that 
Loans 2 Go should have  carried  out. I do think Loans 2 Go needed evidence  to corroborate 
what Mr M said was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one 
way of achieving  that although  there  are of course many other ways that level of detail could 
be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ms bank statements I can get a good idea of 
what better checks might have shown.
It is clear, from even  the most cursory examination of Mr Ms bank statements, that he was 
facing serious problems with his finances  when he took the loan from Loans  2 Go. In the 
month immediately preceding the loan hed borrowed  from at least six other  short term 
lenders. And in that month hed spent over 90% of his normal  income  on what  appear  to be 
online gambling transactions.
I think that is information that Loans  2 Go would have established from what  I consider to be 
proportionate checks. But Id also note that the credit report Loans 2 Go received showed 
that Mr M was borrowing regularly from other short  term lenders. Loans 2 Go has said it was 
reassuring that Mr M was repaying his credit on time, and had closed a number of loans  
shortly before applying  for this loan. But hed only done that by borrowing heavily from other  
lenders. That is not a sustainable method of repayment.
Ref: DRN73879543So I dont  think that, what I consider to be, proportionate checks would have led a 
reasonable lender to conclude Mr Ms loan application should be approved.  I dont think  
Loans 2 Go should have  given this loan to Mr M, and it needs to pay him some  
compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Loans  2 Go should  have agreed to lend to Mr M in April 2018.  So Loans 2 Go 
should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans  2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Loans  2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7387954