K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Funding  Circle Ltd made a mistake when it provided a redemption  figure  
for his business loan resulting in inconvenience.
background 
Mr A asked for a redemption figure  for his peer to peer loan. Funding Circle, which  arranged  
and administered the loan, told him that if he repaid it by 27 March 2018 the amount due 
would be £38,173.82. He paid £28,000 by bank  transfer and the rest on personal  credit 
cards. Funding Circle said the redemption figure had assumed he would make the regular  
monthly payment  due on 3 March 2018 as well and that he owed it a further £1,361.47. This 
included a payment  of £782.42 to capital and £579.04 of interest. It also wanted  proof  that 
the credit  cards were  in his name. When he complained it offered to waive the interest 
element of that payment.  But when  he did not make payment by 20 April 2018 and provide 
the information it required it decided to return the money. Mr A does  not think  the 
compensation offered is sufficient and stopped making regular repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that Funding Circle do anything more than it had offered 
to. She issued her opinion  in December 2018. By that time the borrowing was in arrears. 
Funding Circle had not applied  late charges or then issued a default. It remained prepared  to 
accept a redemption  figure which excluded the interest payment of £579.04 that had been 
due in March 2018. 
Mr A had said that he had wanted  to propose paying  the missing  instalments by 5 February 
2019 and then continuing with instalments  until the loan was repaid. Funding Circle did not 
accept this and issued a default.  Mr A has made a complaint about that which is being 
considered separately. He says he did not make the repayments due thinking that this 
complaint would be resolved in his favour and he was not aware  that the process  would take 
so long. He does not accept the resolution for this complaint as sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Funding Circle did not include the payment  due on 3 March 2018  in the redemption figure it 
gave to Mr A on 1 March  2018. It said with the settlement notice that:
Please note that if the payment is made via a third party we will need to receive prior
notice and an explanation for this. We cannot settle the loan until all queries have been
resolved to our satisfaction.
Any delay caused by our investigation into a third party payment may result  in the loan
being settled later, and there  may be a further interest payment accordingly.
Additionally, please note that we require cleared funds in the account detailed  below  by
27 March 2018, to ensure funds are cleared  before the next months interest is due. In 
addition, we do not accept any cash, cheque or card payment upon settlement. All 
settlement payments will need to be made  by CHAPS or faster  payment to the banking  
details provided  below. The figure  above  is valid on the basis  that we receive your currently  
pending payment  in full and on time.
Ref: DRN74691492That last sentence was unclear to Mr A. In practice what Funding Circle meant was that it 
expected that a payment  due to the loan on 3 March 2018 would be made  as well. But Mr A 
had confirmed on 8 March 2018  that he would pay the amount he had been told was due. 
He made  this payment on 26 March 2018 and then found out that this was not sufficient. On 
28 March 2018  Funding Circle said it would accept  an additional capital sum due of £782.42 
and would waive the interest payment. On 17 April 2018 it said it would also still accept that 
settlement and not apply any further interest  that was accruing provided payment was made 
by 20 April 2018. It also still wanted to see proof that the credit card payments came from  
Mr A.
I appreciate Mr A was caused some inconvenience  by what  happened.  I am not clear 
whether he was in a position to make  the additional capital payment. But he said he was not 
happy with the compensation offered for what he considered to be a mistake  by Funding 
Circle. He also did not think it reasonable that he needed to provide details of his credit card 
accounts as his personal payments had then gone  through.
I confirmed with Funding Circle that the settlement figures it had provided to our adjudicator 
in November 2018 had taken account  of payments Mr A had made  in September and 
October 2018. And of interest  to that point  due from March 2018 onwards. Having 
considered this I think that Funding  Circle made a reasonable offer given what had 
happened and the obvious lack of clarity for Mr A about the repayment amount. Its original 
communication said it would not normally accept credit card payments. With this in mind  I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for it to ask for more information  to confirm the source of 
those funds to comply with regulatory requirements.  And when Mr A did not pay the shortfall 
it paid back the money  especially as there is no ability to make  partial  repayments.  
It continued to be prepared to accept a settlement from Mr A. I dont think  Mr A had any 
basis to think that it did not expect regular repayments in the meantime  while his complaint 
was being considered. Im not though looking at its decision to issue a default so Im not 
going to make any comments about the recovery action. Or about Mr As offer to pay off 
arrears by 5 February  2019. My findings are about  Funding Circles response to the issue  
with the settlement figure in March  2018 and I find that was reasonable. I dont think  that 
there was a fair basis  to require it also to waive the capital sum due.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Funding  Circle Ltd does 
not need to do more  than it has already and which was to waive  the interest payment of 
£579.04 that was due to be paid by Mr A on 3 March 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7469149