K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy because he says Punter Southall Health and Protection Limited mis-sold 
him a private medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr S had private medical  insurance  via a group scheme. When he retired he contacted 
Punter Southall to arrange  cover.  He says he made  them aware he had previously had atrial 
fibrillation. Mr S switched providers and took out a policy.  But when he made  a claim the new 
insurer declined cover on the basis that Mr S had failed to disclose his pre-existing heart 
condition. 
Punter Southall agree  that Mr S did discuss  his medical history with them.  They say they 
advised Mr S to give as much information as possible  in the application forms so that the 
insurer could use this to make their underwriting decision. They explained  that as Mr S didnt 
provide that information in the form, and declared  he didnt have a heart condition, they 
werent responsible  for what happened. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. She noted that Punter Southall hadnt 
contacted the insurer  to check what the impact of the pre-existing condition  would be on 
Mr Ss application. This is something theyd told Mr S theyd do. But she thought Mr S hadnt  
answered the questions on the form correctly and she wasnt persuaded it was their 
responsibility to check  the paperwork before submitting it. She also concluded that even if 
Mr S had stayed with the same insurer hed have needed to fill out an application form 
because hed have  moved from a group scheme to an individual  policy.  And that would have 
meant hed have had to declare his medical history. So she didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He said he wouldnt 
have switched insurers if hed known he wasnt covered for his heart  condition.  He says,  due 
to his circumstances, he would have been able to stay in the group scheme even though  
hed retired. So he wouldnt have needed to fill out an application form and declare  his heart 
condition. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Punter Southall confirmed they were offering advice to Mr S when he took out the policy.  
Therefore, under the relevant rules and industry guidelines, they had a responsibility to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for his needs. Im not upholding  this complaint because:  
Punter Southall spoke to Mr S about  his heart condition during the sales  process. 
Mr S queried what impact disclosing his previous history of atrial fibrillation would 
have on the cost of his policy.  I think  Punter Southall  made it sufficiently clear hed 
need to give the insurer information  about his heart condition when completing  the 
application form as the insurer might apply  exclusions
Ref: DRN72370102Mr S didnt  act on that advice.  He completed the form and was asked the following 
question:
have you or any person to be covered by this policy had any consultations,  tests,  
medication or treatment  in the last five years relating to any (a) Type of cancer or 
suspected cancer  (b) Form of heart or circulatory condition or symptoms
Mr S was asked to select yes or no. He ticked the no box. I also note that Mr S 
signed to confirm that the information hed provided in the form was true and 
complete to the best of his knowledge.  He didnt  take the opportunity to provide 
further information about his previous history of atrial fibrillation as the advisor  had 
recommended
Mr S completed a separate application  form for a different insurer at around the same 
time. Ultimately, Mr S didnt go ahead with that policy. But I note he didnt disclose  
his heart  condition in that application  either 
Whilst Punter Southall  gave Mr S advice  about the policies available I dont think they 
were responsible for the accuracy  of the information Mr S provided about his medical  
history. As Ive already said, I think the advisor  made it clear  Mr S should  give the 
insurer as much information as he could. So I dont think its reasonable to have  
expected Punter Southall, in the circumstances of this case,  to have scrutinised the 
application form to check for factual  inaccuracies in Mr Ss medical history before 
submitting it 
Ive taken into account that Punter Southall did tell Mr S theyd  check with the insurer  
what the impact of his heart condition would be on his application for cover.  Theres  
no evidence the advisor followed this up. But, Im satisfied Mr S was made aware  he 
needed to provide  detailed information on the application form. And I think  Mr S was 
aware of the overall importance of this information from his previous discussions with 
Punter Southall.  So this doesnt  change my thoughts  about  the outcome of Mr Ss 
complaint 
Im satisfied  the actions Punter  Southall  took were  reasonable in the circumstances.  
If Mr S had completed  the form accurately the insurer would have based their quote  
on the right information and Mr S would have been advised  of any relevant 
exclusions 
I appreciate Mr S says he would  have stayed with his current provider if hed known 
his heart  condition would be excluded. However, as Ive outlined above, I think whats  
gone wrong here stems from Mr Ss actions, rather than Punter Southalls. So I dont  
think they need to take action to put things right in the circumstances of this case.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision before 24 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
Ref: DRN72370103ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7237010