K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M took out a total of nine loans  with QuickQuid between December 2014 and December 
2017 Loans 3,4,5,8 and 9 were topped up with additional borrowing and Mr M rolled over 
some of the loans. A summary  of Mr Ms borrowing is below.
Loan  
numberBorrowing 
dateRepayment 
dateLoan amount  
1 22.12.14 31.03.15 £150
2 17.06.16 30.06.16 £200
3 06.07.16 20.07.16 £350 & £150
4 04.08.16 07.11.16£350 & £200  
& £200 & 
£100 
5 19.11.16 09.01.17 £300 & £200  
6 09.03.17 24.04.17 £500
7 04.05.17 16.07.17 £700
8 31.07.17 30.09.17£850 & £250  
& £250
9 08.12.17 Outstanding £1500  & £256 
& £250
Mr M believes QuickQuid was irresponsible to lend to him. He says he couldnt  afford  the 
loans, which  he says trapped him into a debt spiral, so that he had to borrow  again  to cover 
his next months  expenses.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
thought QuickQuid had carried out proportionate checks  before making the first three  loans, 
and he didnt think it had been unreasonable to make them, based on the information it had. 
But he didnt  think the checks  QuickQuid carried out before making the remaining loans went 
far enough. And he thought that if it had carried out proportionate checks  for loans 4 to 9, it 
would have realised  that these loans  were unaffordable for Mr M. 
So the adjudicator said that QuickQuid should  refund  all interest  and charges that Mr M paid 
on loans 4 to 9 and the top ups, with interest  on the refund. And he said it should remove 
any negative information about those loans  from Mr Ms credit file. QuickQuid didnt agree 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN73561752QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Looking at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending history with Mr M I think by loan 4 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so QuickQuid should  have realised that it shouldnt  provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
By the time Mr M asked for loan 4 it was his third request in as many months. Hed 
applied to top up loans 2 and 3 and he wasnt making any inroads to the amount he 
owed the lender.  By then Mr M was applying for increasing amounts.
Ref: DRN73561753Mr M was generally provided  with a new loan typically within a short  time after 
settling a previous  one. So QuickQuid  ought to have realised it was more  likely than 
not Mr M was having to borrow further  to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
The amounts  that Mr M borrowed showed an upwards trend  and he was frequently 
asking to top up the loan and roll over repayments. Mr M applied for £1500 at the 
point of the final loan.
I think that Mr M lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 9 including the top ups and QuickQuid 
should put things right.
putting things right
I dont think QuickQuid should have agreed  to lend to Mr M after,  and including,  the loan that 
he took on 4 August 2016 (loan 4). So for each of those loans QuickQuid should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges.
QuickQuid can apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan 9 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mr M.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file for loans 4-6. The 
number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 6 to 9 should be removed  from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN73561754my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7356175