K821x#15Complaint
Miss E complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
lent to her. 
Background
On 5 May 2020,  I issued a provisional  decision in which I set out how I intended to decide  
this complaint and I asked  the parties  for their comments. 
Neither Miss E nor Sunny responded. Miss Es trustee in bankruptcy  responded to reiterate 
their interest in any compensation Sunny had to pay. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of this final decision.  As I have received 
no further evidence  or information from the parties,  I see no reason to depart from the 
reasoning as set out in my provisional  decision. So for the reasons set out below, I uphold  
this complaint in respect of loans 4 to 9 and Sunny will need to take action to put things right.  
Putting things  right 
Miss E is subject to a bankruptcy order. The trustee in bankruptcy  has expressed an interest 
in this compensation. The compensation  I have directed below must be paid to the trustee,  
who will then decide how it is distributed.  
Sunny must:
refund  all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans 4 to 9; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Es credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 9 should be removed from 
Miss Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one
My final decision
I have partly upheld this complaint about  Elevate Credit International Limited.  
Ref: DRN77366092Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Es trustee in 
bankruptcy to accept  or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Miss E complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading  as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
Ref: DRN77366093background 
Between November 2015 and January  2017, Miss E borrowed nine loans from Sunny. The lending 
history is set out below: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 22/11/2015 29/04/2016 6 £200.00
2 09/12/2015 31/05/2016 6 £200.00
3 13/04/2016 19/09/2016 6 £600.00
4 06/05/2016 19/09/2016 6 £400.00
5 04/06/2016 19/09/2016 6 £150.00
6 05/12/2016 outstanding 6 £500.00
7 11/12/2016 outstanding 6 £300.00
8 14/12/2016 outstanding 6 £50.00
9 31/01/2017 outstanding 6 £100.00
From the information provided to me, it appears  there  is an outstanding  balance in respect of loans  6 
to 9. I understand those debts have been sold to a third party. It is also important  for me to say that I 
understand Miss E is now subject to a bankruptcy  order. Her trustee  in bankruptcy told us that any 
compensation awarded in respect of this complaint  would be due to the Official Receiver. As the 
trustee is a party to the complaint, a copy of this final decision  will also be sent to them. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loans 4 to 9. As there was an 
outstanding balance on some of the loans, our adjudicator said that Sunny could  keep the 
compensation to repay what was outstanding. And if there was anything left after that, the remainder 
should be paid to Miss E. 
Sunny disagreed with that view. It reiterated the checks it had undertaken were  proportionate. 
However, it accepted that it could have done more  in respect of loans 7 to 9. It offered to settle the 
complaint on that basis. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss E could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN77366094the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Miss E was required to establish  whether  Miss 
E could sustainably  repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Es complaint.
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, Sunny  was entitled to rely on the information Miss E 
provided to it. I can see that it checked her income and expenditure and following  that, the loans  
would have reasonably appeared  to be affordable. 
However, by the time Miss E applied for loan 4. Sunny should have done  more. I can see that at this 
stage, Miss E applied  for £400. This application came just a week after she had made loan 
repayments to Sunny of over £300. Given that the amount Miss E applied for was similar to that which  
she had just repaid, Sunny should have been on notice that Miss E may have been struggling to 
sustainably repay her debt. 
So for the reasons  set out above, I am satisfied that a proportionate  check at this stage  should have 
constituted a full review  of Miss Es financial position. Had that review been undertaken, Sunny  would 
have appreciated that Miss E had considerable debts with other  short-term lenders. I can see that 
three days before  she applied for loan 4, Miss E had paid over £1,100 in high cost short-term lending 
repayments. This amounts  to around 65% of her income. It should  have been abundantly clear to 
Sunny that Miss E could  not sustainably  afford to repay loan 4. 
The picture  for loan 5 in terms  of Miss Es short-term lending commitments is similar. For the same 
reasons in respect of loan 5, Sunny  should have realised that her loan repayments for loan 5 were not 
sustainably affordable. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss E with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. At that stage, Sunny should have  realised that it was not right to 
provide any further loans.  
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Es case, I agree with our adjudicator that this point  was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have  realised  Miss E was not managing  to repay  her loans 
sustainably. Miss E had taken  out six loans within 12 months. I can see that she had also 
fallen behind with her repayments  for her earlier  borrowing. So Sunny  ought to have  realised 
it was most likely that Miss Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN77366095Miss Es first loan was for £200 and loan 6 was for £500.  At this point Sunny  ought to have  
known that Miss E was not likely  borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall  in her income but to 
meet an ongoing need. 
I think  that Miss E lost out because  Sunny  continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Es indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans Miss E borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on her 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im currently  minded  to uphold the complaint about loans 4 to 5 and loans  6 to 9. As things stand, 
Sunny must  take action to put things right.  
putting things  right  what Sunny needs to do
As I said above, Miss E is subject to a bankruptcy order. The trustee  in bankruptcy  has expressed an 
interest in this compensation and requested that it be paid to the trustee. So with that in mind, I am 
proposing to tell Sunny  to put things right, but the compensation will have to be paid to the trustee in 
bankruptcy. And then the trustee will decide how the compensation will be distributed.  
Sunny will need to:
refund all interest and charges Miss E paid on loans 4 to 9; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  4 and 5 from Miss Es credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 6 to 9 should  be removed  from Miss Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly upholding  Miss Es complaint.  I provisionally intend to tell 
Elevate Credit International Limited to comply with the above putting things right section.  
I now invite  the parties to provide me with any further information they want me to consider by 5 June  
2020 after which I will issue a final decision. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7736609