K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the premium increases of their home  insurance  policy  held 
with UK Insurance Limited trading  as Privilege Home Insurance (UKI).
Background
In 2012, Mr and Mrs A took out the policy online. The policy was underwritten  by UKI  and it 
set the price of the policy from inception. 
In 2019, Mr and Mrs A complained to UKI about  increases  in the policy  premiums over the 
years. As part of their complaint, Mr and Mrs A said they thought  UKI had treated them 
unfairly as they didnt  think the annual premium  increases were justified. They also felt UKI 
was taking advantage of them as they werent able to source alternative cover  due to an 
ongoing claim. To put things right, Mr and Mrs A requested a reduction in their annual 
premium and a refund  of any excess premiums they may have paid over the years. 
In response to the complaint, UKI said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as the 
premiums had been based on the level of cover  required and were  in line with the general 
rates relating  to Mr and Mrs As circumstances.  It also explained that it had correctly applied  
all available discounts  over the years  and that there were legitimate reasons for the premium 
increases.
Unhappy with their response, Mr and Mrs A asked our service for an independent review of 
their complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that UKI hadnt done 
anything wrong.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the outcome of our investigators  assessment, the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I agree  with our investigator. I dont think  UKI 
has acted unfairly its dealings with Mr and Mrs A. Ill explain why Ive reached the outcome I 
have.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what it should 
charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would  be in effect determining or 
telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role.
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different premiums based  on 
their assessment of risk. One insurer may decide  its taking a significant risk insuring a 
particular property, whereas another insurer might  not  and there will be different factors  
and reasons for each insurers decision. Ultimately,  its up to an insurer to decide  what it 
charges for insurance and I dont have the power  to tell an insurer what  its assessment of 
risk should  be.
Ref: DRN75289342But I can look at whether UKI treated Mr and Mrs A fairly during the time they held their 
home insurance policy with it. If I find that UKI hasnt treated Mr and Mrs A fairly,  I will look to 
see what compensation would be fair.
At inception,  the policy cost £261.82. The policys cost increased  over the years and in 2019  
it had increased to around £1,003   so Ive had a look to see whats  happened.
Mr and Mrs As policy was taken out online and automatically renewed in some of the years. 
I can see the policy was amended in 2014 when the level of cover  was increased to include 
a high-value specified item and amended again in 2015 when the additional cover  was no 
longer needed.  I can also see that in 2015, Mr and Mrs A made a claim for subsidence 
damage to their property,  which was ongoing  for a number of years.
As part of my investigation  into Mr and Mrs As complaint, I had a look at the information  UKI 
provided, which included  details of how Mr and Mrs As premiums  were calculated and the 
reasons behind the annual premium increases. Im afraid I cant  share this information as its 
commercially sensitive,  but I would like to assure Mr and Mrs A that Ive carefully considered 
what UKI has provided.
Looking at the available information, I can see that the initial  cost the policy included a new 
customer discount. Often, when new policies are taken out, they come  with a significant 
initial discount which insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer  retention. This 
isnt something thats unique  to UKI and is something many  insurers  choose  to do in an 
attempt to attract new business.
UKI has told us that due to the new customer discount, the initial cost of the policy was 
much lower  than what it would have charged its existing customers. Its gone on to explain 
that in order to make a profit  and bring the premium in line with its standard  pricing  model, it 
had to increase  the premiums in the initial years. Its also told us that the amendment  to the 
policy in 2014,  which included additional cover  for a high-value  item,  increased the overall  
cost of the policy for that year.
Based on the information provided, Im satisfied that its more  likely than not the new 
customer discount would have played a significant  part in UKIs  decision to increase the 
premiums in the first few years. Im also satisfied that the additional cover taken out in 2014 
would have resulted in a higher annual premium in 2014. Ill now have a look at what  
happened in the later years and the reasons  behind  those annual premium  increases. 
A review of the premiums Mr and Mrs A paid over the years, shows  that the largest  annual  
premium increases took place from 2016  onwards. So, Ive had a look at why this was the 
case.
In its submissions to our service,  UKI has explained  that the main  reason for the increase in 
premiums was due a claim made by Mr and Mrs A for subsidence  damage  their property in 
2015. Its explained that from the point of this claim,  its perception of the risk of the property 
had changed,  which resulted in a significant  increase  in the cost of insuring the property. In 
support of this, its provided us with some  information about  the cost of insuring Mr and Mrs 
As property  before and the after the claim.
Ref: DRN75289343In addition to this, UKI has provided  us with information to show that in both 2015  and 2016,  
the cost of providing the insurance  cover exceeded the amount Mr and Mrs A were paying  
for their policy. As a result, its explained that while Mr and Mrs As premium had increased 
in those years, it had made a loss on the policy. Its explained that all increases in 
subsequent years were  intended to bring  the cost of the policy  in line with what it deemed to 
be the actual cost of insuring the increased  risk and in line with what other customers with 
similar circumstances were paying  for their policies.  
It is widely accepted  that any claim made on an insurance policy can and normally  will have  
an impact on the premiums charged  by an insurer in subsequent  years.  Claims involving 
serious issues, such as property damage due to subsidence, will almost definitely  impact a 
customers premium,  as the cost of the claim and the risk of future claims could be high. Its 
therefore not unreasonable that insures would want to factor  any past claims  into any future 
premium calculations  which  is what happened  in this case. So, I dont think  it would be fair 
or appropriate for me to tell UKI that it was wrong to do this when calculating  Mr and Mrs As 
premiums from 2016 onwards.
While I understand Mr and Mrs A concerns about their ongoing claim and its impact on their 
ability to source alternative cover, I havent  considered whether UKI has done anything  
wrong in relation to this claim. This is because  Mr and Mrs A specifically asked our service to 
only consider whether  UKI treated them fairly in relation to the increases to their annual 
premiums and not look into whats happened with their claim.
Having thought about what  both parties have said, Im satisfied that there  were  legitimate 
reasons as to why Mr and Mrs As premium increased over the years and I havent  seen 
anything persuasive  to suggest  that UKI has treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly in any way when 
setting their annual  premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7528934