K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf  of herself and the estate of the late Mr B. She says 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  for their 
mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs B paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr B 
only, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done that, I think  Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the policy for Mr B, so it had to check it was right for him. But 
I dont think it was right for him.
Mr B had a medical condition at the time of the sale, which wouldnt have been covered. The 
condition was a potentially life-threatening one, and by the time of the sale Mr B had already 
had to have a major operation. From what Mrs B has told us, he needed medication and 
regular check-ups, and the condition wouldve affected his day-to-day living.
So I think this condition  wouldve mattered to Mr B. Indeed, he mightve considered  it to have 
been the most likely  one to cause him to take time off work. But the policy  excluded  any 
claims resulting from a condition he already knew about  which  included  this one.
Santander asked  for evidence  of Mr Bs condition. Mrs B was able to provide a doctors  letter 
from before  the sale, which detailed some  of his symptoms, an ongoing investigation, and a 
recommendation to make  changes to his day-to-day life.
I do understand why Santander would like to see more evidence, but I have to be fair to both 
sides, and keep reasonable  expectations. For instance, Santander has understandably been 
unable to provide  all the original documents from the sale, because  it was so long ago. 
Similarly, I cannot reasonably expect  Mrs B to be able to produce full medical records in 
relation to 16 years ago and before.
Ref: DRN79868332Santander says it wouldve  checked  the policy was suitable for Mr B, including in relation to 
pre-existing medical conditions. But I cant see any evidence  of that in the record of the 
advice, or the rest of the mortgage  documents. I think that if Santander had given Mr and 
Mrs B suitable advice, then it wouldve been clear the policy wasnt  right for them,  owing to 
Mr Bs pre-existing condition,  and so I dont think theyd have bought  it. So I think its most  
likely that this policy has been mis-sold.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B in the position theyd be in now if 
this PPI policy hadnt been sold. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled 
already, and Santander should:
Pay back  the amount Mr and Mrs B paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until it is paid back. The rate 
of interest is 8% simple a year.
If the late Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off 
what Mr and Mrs B got for the claim from the amount it owes.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. Mrs B can claim back  the 
tax if the tax isnt due.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986833