K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1999. It was taken out nearly 
three two years after Mr M had taken  out a mortgage.  The policy provided Mr M with cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr M disagreed. He said the business hadnt 
been able to evidence that hed agreed to the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  because:
Mr M wouldve known he didnt need to take the PPI for his mortgage application to be 
successful because the policy was taken out many months after the mortgage started. So 
I think that, on balance,  St Andrews  made  Mr M aware the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it. He wouldve had to complete and sign a separate  application form for the 
PPI but its not surprising  Mr M cant remember this, given it took place so long ago.
Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mr M, Ive considered  the case  to the 
higher standard of an advised  sale. This means St Andrews had to make  sure the policy  
was suitable for his needs. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mr M told us he wouldve been able to meet his mortgage payments for up to six months  
if he couldnt work. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and 
Mr Ms home  was at risk if he didnt keep up with the repayments. The PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim for accident or sickness.  
So I think it could have been a useful benefit.  It also covered Mr M should he have 
become unemployed. So, overall,  I dont  think Mr Ms existing arrangements  made  the 
PPI unsuitable.
Ref: DRN73630702Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys  main benefits such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether  the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr M before he 
agreed to purchase it. I think he probably  wasnt told it would cost £16.65 each month 
until after hed applied for it. For this reason I have  considered  whether  clearer 
information about  the cost would have affected Mr Ms decision to purchase the policy.  
Hed chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely he would 
have made a different decision if better  information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think St Andrews 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr M would have made  a different decision 
about taking out the policy  if better  information had been provided to him  overall,
I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7363070