K820x#14Complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc unfairly terminated 
two loan agreements.
Background
In 2014, M approached Secure Trust for finance for a property development. After  some 
negotiation, the parties  signed two facility agreements, one for the land (the property) and 
one for the development, in late October  2014.  M drew down £2.9m  under the land facility. 
In May 2016  Secure  Trust wrote to M saying that under the terms of the land facility 
agreement, an event of default  had occurred. Two weeks later the bank made a formal  
demand for the company  to repay  the loan under the land facility. As a result,  M repaid the 
loan and refinanced with another bank in November 2016. 
In March 2019, M made a complaint to Secure  Trust about its actions. Ms representative 
said that in May 2016, no event of default had occurred under the terms of the land facility, 
or, if there had been such an event, it was no longer subsisting and could no longer  be relied 
on by the bank to bring the contract to an end. The representative said M had suffered 
losses as a consequence of the banks actions.
Unhappy with the banks response, M referred  its complaint  to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence and didnt think Secure Trust had acted unfairly. 
He gave these  reasons,  in summary:
The loan agreement  stated that there would be an event of default  if the bank, acting 
reasonably, wasnt  satisfied that the following conditions had been met:
A definitive development proposal  needed  to be in place, with all necessary 
planning consents
A monitoring surveyor to have appraised this and that it be satisfactory to the 
bank
The works to have commenced
This to have happened  within  twelve months  of drawing down the finance.
The finance was drawn down at the end of October 2014. To say that the bank was 
wrong to terminate the loan,  the investigator  would  need  to be satisfied  that M had 
met all the conditions listed above  by the end of October 2015.  He didnt think this 
was the case.
After the lending was agreed and drawn  down, M submitted a revised application  for 
planning permission,  which  the local authority approved in March 2015. Following 
this a further revised application was drawn up in June 2015, to enhance the 
underground parking, strengthen the structure  and install a lift to the upper floors  of 
the development.
From  the information available, the investigator didnt think a definitive proposal with 
necessary planning  consents for the intended final development was in place by the 
end of October 2015.
Ref: DRN75321432There were  further conversations about  refinancing or restructuring the lending and 
selling the development  to a third party. But the investigator didnt think these meant 
Secure Trust was wrong to say an event of default  had occurred,  as he didnt think  it 
was unreasonable to conclude the above  conditions hadnt been  met.
M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. On Ms behalf, its representative made  the 
following points, in summary:
The investigator appears not to have taken full account  of the written and oral 
representations made  to M by the bank. M relied  on those representations in good  
faith and the bank  reneged on them.
From  the outset M was concerned by the strict  terms of the proposed event in 
default clause.  Before the agreements  were signed, Ms solicitor told the bank We 
can agree that the development will be commenced within 12 months  but cannot 
agree that if the Bank is not satisfied with the development proposal or the Monitoring 
Surveyors appraisal (in its sole discretion), there  is an Event  of Default. It is 
acknowledged that the Bank may not fund the development in these circumstances 
but this should not cause an Event of Default under the facilities . The terms were 
amended before  the agreements were  signed   the words  acting reasonably  were  
inserted  and the relevant part of the land facility agreement read if the Bank  acting 
reasonably is not satisfied with a definitive  development proposal for the Property 
with all necessary planning  consents  in place for such a scheme with an appraisal by 
the Monitoring Surveyor [then such event shall be deemed to be an Event of 
Default]. M continued on the basis that the amended wording meant the bank had 
accepted and agreed Ms position.
At a meeting in September 2015,  following  regular correspondence between the 
parties, a bank representative  said he was confident the banks  credit  committee 
would be impressed  with progress.  The bank representative made further  positive 
comments in November 2015 and terms were agreed for restructuring the borrowing,  
subject to formal  confirmation. M relied  on these assurances with the knowledge that 
the bank was fully in agreement with Ms plans.
But eventually in March 2016 the bank proposed a restructure  on significantly more 
disadvantageous terms. In May 2016 the bank confirmed that the new documentation  
was being prepared for a land loan only, and a few days  later the bank alleged an 
event of default had occurred.
The bank  wasnt acting reasonably, within the agreed definition of this wording, when 
it assessed whether  an event  of default  had occurred.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms directors, but 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator,  and for largely  the same reasons.
Im satisfied that at the end of October  2015,  M didnt have all the necessary planning 
consents for a finalised and agreed development scheme. The revised planning application 
submitted in October 2014 had been  approved in March 2015, but further major revisions 
were proposed in June  2015 and there were discussions  about  further  funding  needed for 
Ref: DRN75321433the revisions. Im satisfied  there  was no definitive version of the plan agreed with the bank by 
the end of October 2015. 
There was an appraisal by the monitoring  surveyor early in 2015 and M says the outcome 
was satisfactory. The bank disagrees, saying the monitoring  surveyor didnt receive sufficient 
finalised details of a viable scheme  to be able to provide satisfactory sign-off at any point. 
But in any event, the development plans changed  significantly  during 2015, so I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for the bank to say that it didnt have a satisfactory surveyors 
assessment, either in October 2015 or at the time it issued the default letters.
Ms representative points to the discussions with the bank about funding for the scheme 
revisions in the second half of 2015, to the proposals for restructuring the lending, and to the 
positive statements by the banks representative.  M says it relied on those assurances. But 
the banks communications made  clear  that the loan restructuring  was always subject to 
formal confirmation  by the bank,  so I dont think it was unreasonable  for Secure Trust to 
have made  a different restructuring proposal  in March 2016. Banks are entitled  to make their 
own assessments of risks in lending proposals, and its not unreasonable  for those 
assessments to be revised  in the light of changing  circumstances.
I dont think Secure Trust misled M into believing the requirements listed  in the act of 
default terms no longer  applied.  In 2015 and 2016 the bank reminded M several  times about  
the importance of finalising and agreeing the development  proposal and about the formal 
requirements of the facility agreements.
The bank wasnt quick to enforce the position regarding the act of default. The discussions 
between the parties  in 2015 and 2016  provide evidence that the bank was willing  to work 
with M to get the development onto a firm footing, despite the project not meeting the 
conditions to avoid  an event of default  from October  2015 onwards. In my view, this shows 
that the bank acted  reasonably regarding the terms in the agreements  which  set out those 
conditions.
Secure Trust says that by May 2016, proposals for the development were still not finalised, 
costings werent certain, and a suitably experienced contractor hadnt  been appointed. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for the bank to send the default letters and 
to make a formal demand for repayment of the loan under the land facility.
Im not persuaded that the insertion of the words acting reasonably meant that the facility  
agreements should  be regarded as incorporating Ms previously  expressed  position that the 
Bank may not fund the development in these circumstances but this should  not cause an 
Event of Default under the facilities . The term in question clearly  sets out circumstances 
which would be deemed an event of default, and I cant  agree that the inserted words  imply  
that those circumstances shouldnt be deemed  an event of default.  And Ive already said 
that, in my view, the bank did act reasonably when it determined  that there had been an 
event of default.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Secure  Trust acted unfairly or unreasonably. I 
dont require the bank to pay any compensation to M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN75321434Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7532143