K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly decided he was 
responsible for causing an accident under his motor  policy. Hes also complained  that it 
hasnt paid his garage for the repairs to his car as a result of the accident. 
Hes represented by his mother Mrs O.
background
Mr O was involved in an accident on a roundabout with another driver.  Initially they decided 
not to go through their respective insurers but then the other driver made a claim for damage  
to his car and personal injury on Mr Os policy.
CIS decided  on the circumstances  of the accident, that Mr O was at fault for causing it. This 
meant it paid the other drivers claim.
It also agreed to pay for the damage  to Mr Os car resulting from the accident. But on 
receiving the invoice for the repairs, it seemed there was more damage  than initially seen on 
Mr Os photographs from the time of the accident. So it said it would cover  this extra  
damage, provided Mr O paid a second excess on the basis  of what  its instructed engineer 
said. 
Mr O disagreed with CISs stance  on the whole incident, and complained. CIS didnt change 
its mind,  as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr O disagreed and brought his 
complaint to us.
The adjudicator was of the view that CIS hadnt done anything  wrong  in its dealings with this 
incident. Mr O still disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr Os policy  clearly details what he must do if hes involved in an accident. This is first 
mentioned in the introduction, and then detailed fully on page  4, where it states  the following:
It is important that you report an accident  to us as quickly as you can, even if you are 
not making a claim under your policy.
However, Mr O never told CIS he had been  involved in this accident. So CIS didnt know  
anything about  it, until the other driver  decided  to make a claim and made contact with CIS a 
few days after the accident to register his claim against Mr Os policy.  Then CIS asked Mr O 
to give his account of what  happened. 
At that time,  and indeed later, Mr O told CIS he didnt  want  to make any claim under his 
policy for the repair of his car. The accident  happened on 25 November 2017 and Mr O only 
decided he wanted  to make a claim under  his own policy for the repairs  to his car on 22 
January 2018  and then told CIS the repairs were proceeding  and would be completed that 
day, on 31 January.  
Ref: DRN77815922Whilst I will deal with the repair issue below,  it does seem to me that if Mr O had followed the 
instructions clearly laid out his policy of what to do following  an accident then things might 
have easier for him to understand.  Mrs O has repeatedly complained that Mr O was never 
told what to do by CIS, but its all there in the policy booklet.
Liability for the accident
Mrs O on behalf of Mr O thinks its grossly  unfair  that Mr O is deemed to be at fault for 
causing this accident, because she said the other  driver was driving too fast. First, this 
service doesnt decide  who is responsible for causing an accident, as thats  a matter solely 
for the courts. However, we do look to see if the insurer CIS here, came to its decision on 
whose fault the accident  was, fairly and reasonably.
Under Mr Os policy under  Conditions and on page 24, it says the following:
4. Conduct of claim: Anyone claiming  under this policy must give us any help which 
we reasonably ask for in connection  with the claim. We will be entitled  to the full 
conduct and control  of the defence or settlement of any claim from a third party and 
no admission of liability may be made without our consent.
This term isnt unusual and its found in almost every  other motor policy.  It means  that CIS is 
fully entitled to make its own decision on whose fault the accident may be and then to 
undertake the necessary and subsequent settlement negotiations, regardless of whether Mr 
O agrees or not as the case may be. 
CIS investigated the circumstances  of the accident taking a full statement from Mr O. It also 
compared the damage to his car with the damage  on the other  drivers  car. And it took legal 
advice, which said that if this matter was to go to court, it didnt  think  a court would find in Mr 
Os favour. This is because  the accident  happened  on a roundabout  and the other driver was 
coming from Mr Os right hand side. The rules of the road say Mr O has to give way to any 
traffic coming from the right and must take care in doing so.
So on this basis, I think CIS did a proper investigation of the accident  circumstances  and 
came to a reasonable conclusion that, as it was likely court would find Mr O was responsible 
for the accident,  then it should  settle the other drivers claim. Therefore, I dont consider it did 
anything wrong  in deciding to hold Mr O responsible and to pay the other drivers claim.
Further CIS did this on a without prejudice  basis, which meant  it didnt admit  liability to the 
other driver,  merely it just dealt with, negotiated and paid his claim. This is also reasonable, 
as this means its still open  for Mr O to initiate court proceedings  if he wished to say the 
other driver was to blame. So I consider CIS correctly and reasonably ensured Mr Os rights 
remained intact if this is something he wishes to do. However, I would suggest he takes 
cogent legal  advice before doing  so, given  the further risks he would face if he lost any court 
case.
The accident  damage to Mr Os car
Initially following the other driver registering a claim against Mr Os policy,  Mr O said he 
didnt want to make a claim on his policy to repair the damage  to his car. And it wasnt until 
21 January 2018  (some  two months  after the accident) that Mr O decided he wanted CIS to 
then fund the repairs of his car.
Ref: DRN77815923In the normal  scheme of things, had Mr O notified  CIS at the time the accident happened, 
CIS would have appointed its own approved repairer to both assess  the damage  
immediately after the accident and then do the repairs, if Mr O wanted to make  a claim. Its 
policy clearly states on page  4 what  the process  is for repairing the damage to the insured 
vehicle, which aims to get the repairs started  as soon as possible.  Obviously  since  Mr O 
initially didnt  want CIS to repair his car, and nor did he initially contact CIS, he then didnt 
avail of this service.
Mr O took photos the damage done to his car in the accident immediately afterwards, which  
have been very helpful. Regardless of the fact that Mr O said he didnt want  CIS to repair  his 
car, CIS did need  to look at the damage  done  to his car in order  to verify the extent of the 
damage the other driver  was claiming happened to his car, as a result of the accident.  CIS 
appointed engineers to look at Mr Os car on 19 December 2017 but unfortunately, those 
engineers were unable  to get an appointment with Mr O to look at his car until a month  later 
on 19 January. This delay  was caused by Mr O being unavailable, and so was not the fault 
of CIS or its engineers.  Messages for Mr O to get in contact  with the engineers  were  left on 
19 December, 20 December, 27 December,  28 December,  29 December, 2 January, 3 
January, 11 January, 15 January and 16 January. Therefore, I dont consider CIS or its 
engineers caused any delay here, whatsoever.
Once the engineers examined  Mr Os car and looked at the photos  he took immediately after 
the accident, they could  see that Mr Os car had sustained further damage.  It was very 
evident and clear given the availability of the photos.  The engineers said Mr O told them at 
that time,  that he had skidded  on snow since the accident. But given Mr Os evidence of the 
photos he took of his car the time and given the further damage now shown on the later 
photos, its clearly obvious further  damage occurred  to his since the accident and that simply 
cant be disputed given  the photographs.  Mrs O said the damage for worse given the delay 
in getting his car repaired. But as I explained above,  in any event that delay wasnt the fault 
of CIS. 
Because of this, the costs  of the repairs to Mr Os car were now more than they would have 
been had Mr O opted to have his car repaired immediately after the accident. There were 
two ways available to CIS to deal with this. It could have just paid for the repairs of the 
damage shown  in Mr Os initial photos applying just one excess.  However, that would have 
meant Mr O would have a substantial shortfall  in his repair costs, which he would then have 
to fund himself. Or it could  apply  a second excess to this further damage,  which would then 
mean Mr Os entire repair costs would be covered, less the two excesses. CIS decided on 
this option and I consider, as thats  far more  beneficial  to Mr O, obviously then CIS hasnt 
done anything  wrong here either.
Conclusion
Its always upsetting  to be involved in an accident, more  especially one where  you dont think 
it was your fault. However, here CIS has shown that its clear that on the balance  of 
probability and given the rules of the road,  that its likely Mr O would be found to be at fault 
for causing the accident. 
Mrs O has repeatedly said this is all affecting Mr Os mental  health.  However,  Ive seen no 
evidence of that. Im also mindful that Mrs O said at the outset that Mr O had also been very 
affected by the sad death of a relative,  which happened around  the same  time.
Ref: DRN77815924I also think that despite Mr O not reporting  this accident to CIS immediately afterwards, CIS 
has appropriately investigated the accident circumstances and appropriately dealt with other 
drivers claim. I also think  its dealt with Mr Os claim to repair  his car properly and carefully 
too, to ensure the most  beneficial option to Mr O was considered.
Therefore, I dont consider CIS has done anything wrong. Mrs O has said she and her 
husband have  paid the garage, so all that remains is for CIS to reimburse the repair  costs  
less the two excess payments, should  Mr O still wish to pursue  his claim for the repair  of the 
damage to his car.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7781592