K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing  
with their mortgage application. They want matters  put right.
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  to TSB through a broker for a mortgage to buy a property lived in by a 
relative. The relative was also going to pay the deposit. They received a mortgage offer. But 
on the day before completion, Mr and Mrs W said that TSB withdrew the offer due to 
involvement of the relative; they said that it had known the full position from the start. 
Another relative offered to pay the deposit, and the transaction completed.
Mr and Mrs W complained. TSB explained  that the original application  had been  for a buy-to-
let mortgage and its lending policies didnt allow  the person living in the property to 
contribute towards the deposit in such circumstances. This was the main  reason for the 
delay according  to TSB as the application  had suggested that the relative  was already in the 
property. It confirmed that it was able to proceed  with another relative gifting the deposit  and 
confirmation that the first relative  had yet to move  in, and said that it now viewed the 
application as one to buy a second  property, not a buy-to-let. TSB accepted  that 
Mr and Mrs Ws broker mightve been  uncertain  about how to make the application  following  
a discussion with a member of TSBs staff, and offered  £250  compensation, with a further 
£50 towards costs.
The adjudicators view was that TSB was at fault. He said that it had known  before  issuing  
the mortgage offer that the plan had been for the relative to live in the property and gift the 
deposit, which was outside its lending policies. He was satisfied that it was more  likely than 
not that the broker had been told this was acceptable as while a recording of the call wasnt  
available, the broker confirmed the date,  time and name of the person to whom  he spoke. 
The adjudicator noted the delay caused  to completion while  matters  were sorted out and 
thought that the total compensation should be £500.
TSB disagreed. It said that the broker  made  a mistake in completing the application and he 
shouldnt have said it was a buy-to-let application; TSB thought a total compensation of £300  
was fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Without hearing the call between the broker and TSB, its difficult to be certain  about  what  
was said. But I can consider whats more likely than not to have been said in light of what 
actually happened. The broker is a qualified specialist in applying for mortgages. While  I 
cant look at his actions  as part of this complaint, I think its unusual for someone  in the 
brokers position to apply for a buy-to-let property when the property wasnt  going  to be a 
buy-to-let  there would  be obvious  difficulties in demonstrating the likely  rental  income and 
complying with the usual terms about the types  of acceptable tenancy. Thats before I think 
about the fact that the solicitor clearly thought there  was a need to declare the full position  to 
TSB; this letter caused TSB to say that the application  couldnt proceed.  
Ref: DRN75309532The first application  was silent about  the relative and her involvement. Normally, a broker  
would add notes  about an unusual aspect  of an application and even refer to any relevant  
discussion with the lender  about  such an issue. But the broker  is clear about who he spoke 
to at the lender, and when.
I think its more likely than not something was said by TSB that made the broker think  such  
an unusual application  would be acceptable. TSB itself accepts that the conversation  caused  
confusion. But I also think that there wasnt enough information in the application to alert 
TSB (which is a large  business) that there was more going on than met the eye.
TSBs lending policy  didnt permit the buy-to-let application to succeed. The question is when 
it shouldve realised this. I think it was the solicitors letter that gave TSB the information it 
needed to know  the application had to be stopped. That letter was dated 12 November 
2018, and within three days TSB told the solicitors  that this meant  the application couldnt go 
ahead. As TSB didnt know  until mid-November  the full position, and this meant the 
application was always doomed to fail and a new application required,  I cant say it should  
pay the additional rental costs of the relative (who isnt an eligible complainant in any event).
TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in suggesting an alternative option to Mr and Mrs W. It was 
their choice to go ahead with the new mortgage,  knowing about  the ERC  (which was clearly  
set out), so it wouldnt be fair for me to say the mortgage can be repaid without paying the 
ERC.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs W due to 
the confusion  caused by the call with the broker. I havent found TSB to be at fault in relation 
to the time taken  to arrange the correct mortgage. Money never truly compensates  for 
trouble and upset  suffered, and this service looks at the actual trouble and upset suffered, 
not the size of the mistake. I think £300  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances;  it also 
reflects TSBs responsibility and the costs of Mr and Mrs W dealing  with this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  neither party responded. Mrs W said that she wanted 
to so, but despite this service asking if she still wanted to respond,  no response  was 
received.
In light of the absence of any comment or additional evidence, I dont see any reason to 
change my provisional decision and will make it my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7530953