K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Curo Transatlantic Limited  trading as WageDayAdvance (WDA) lent her 
money that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Ms M took out three loans  with WDA between January  and April 2017.  Loan one was for £200  to 
be repaid in one go. Ms M took out loan two in the same month as loan one. She was due to repay  
loan two by three instalments, with a final payment of just under  £500. 
Ms M took out the final loan for £500  in April 2017.  Ms M was due to repay  this loan by three 
instalments with a final repayment of £620.
Ms M says she was caught in a spiral  of debt. She wants WDA  to pay compensation and remove 
the loans from her credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ms complaint be upheld in part. He agreed  that WDAs 
checks went far enough before loan one. And that the loan appeared affordable  for Ms M.
The adjudicator wasnt satisfied that WDA  carried out proportionate  checks before agreeing loans 
two and three. WDAs  credit check showed that Ms M had outstanding debts amounting to more 
than £17,200.  She also had defaulted  accounts of more  than £3,200. The adjudicator  thought that 
the results suggested  that Ms M might not be able to repay loans two and three as she already  
appeared to be in financial  difficulty.
WDA agreed to put things right for loans two and three but Ms M didnt accept the offer.
my findings
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Ms M could 
afford to pay back each loan in a sustainable  way before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms M was borrowing, how much she had to repay,  the 
length of the agreements and her borrowing history. But there was no set list of checks  WDA had 
to do.
loan one
Ms M was borrowing £200  and had to repay just under £240. It was her first loan so I think  a 
proportionate check wouldve  involved  asking  for details of Ms Ms net income, housing  costs, 
living costs  and regular  credit commitments.
WDA has given us evidence that it asked Ms M for these details. It recorded a monthly  income 
figure of £1,500 with outgoings of £642.  It didnt at this point carry out a credit check.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it was reasonable of WDA to rely on this information  to decide 
whether loan one appeared affordable. Based on the figures  that Ms M gave; I cant find it was 
wrong of WDA to agree loan one.
Ref: DRN71073162loans two and three
I dont need to consider whether WDA was wrong  to agree loans two and three as it has already 
agreed to do what I wouldve asked it to if I had found that loans two and three were unaffordable.
Ms M says that she doesnt accept the offer but hasnt given any reason for this. Its not clear to me 
whether Ms M has rejected WDAs  offer on the basis  that it doesnt include loan one or for some 
other reason.
As Ive explained above, I dont consider it reasonable  to require WDA to refund any interest  or 
charges that Ms M has paid on loan one. WDA has offered to write off the interest on loans two 
and three  and then apply  the payments made  to date against the outstanding capital balance. Ms 
M has had the benefit of the money lent to her so this offer seems  fair and in line with our approach 
and its what the adjudicator recommended.
putting things right
WDA shouldnt have agreed  loans two and three so it should:
Recalculate the outstanding balances  on loans two and three to remove  any interest and 
charges but taking  account of any repayments that Ms M has made on these loans as 
though they were  applied against  the principal sum borrowed; and
remove any negative information  recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to loans two and 
three
I understand that after taking the above steps, Ms M will still owe money  on loans two and three. 
Id encourage  her to get in touch with WDA  to discuss how she might repay the loans. And Id 
remind WDA  of the need to continue to treat Ms M positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I consider that the offer Curo Transatlantic  
Limited trading  as WageDayAdvance made to settle this complaint  is fair. It must do what  it has 
offered if Ms M accepts my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject 
my decision  before 11 February 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7107316