K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey  National at the time,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy in 2002  in a meeting at the same time as they applied  for 
a 4-year loan. The policy was in Mr Ps sole name and gave  him accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover. It also included some  life cover. They  paid a monthly amount for the 
loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld, but Mr and Mrs P disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt ask for PPI, it was just added. Santander  disputes  this. I cant  
know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented. So Ive thought  carefully 
about Mr and Mrs Ps comments and looked  at the available paperwork.
Mr and Mrs P have  sent in a copy of their agreement. On the loan agreement there is a 
section dealing with PPI. It sets out the monthly  cost under the heading Payment  Protection  
(where requested) which suggests  to me it was presented as optional. And Mr and Mrs P 
have signed at the bottom of the page  to take out the loan, so I think they agreed  to take out 
PPI with their loan. 
Santander has sent in a copy  of a sample  loan application that was used  at the time and I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs P filled in a similar  form to apply for the loan. The actual form 
Mr and Mrs P completed isnt available, but as the sale was so long ago thats not 
unreasonable or surprising. On the sample  application form in the section dealing  with PPI 
the options to select  or decline PPI are set out with equal prominence. So overall I think  its 
most likely Santander made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs P that the PPI was optional and they 
decided to take it out for Mr P. I know this doesnt  fit with what theyve told us, but I have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might impact  what they recall.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to make  sure the policy  was suitable for 
him. I know Mr and Mrs P feel very strongly  that they didnt need the cover.  I do understand 
that its hard for them  to confirm their exact circumstances in 2002, but based on the 
available evidence but I think that the recommendation was suitable. I say this because:
Mr P appears to be eligible for the PPI and doesnt seem  to be affected by any of the 
exclusions in the policy.
 
Mr P told us he was entitled to 12 months  sick pay at full salary but his employer 
hasnt confirmed this was contractual. Rather,  they said whilst they did tend to pay for 
Ref: DRN72571792legitimate reasons it was at the companys discretion for long term absence. Besides, 
this policy  would have  paid out in addition to any work benefits and for the term of the 
loan for successful accident and sickness claims. It also offered up to 12 months  
redundancy cover which would have been in addition to any payment from Mr Ps 
employer. So the PPI would have meant he wouldnt have  had to use any 
redundancy pay for his loan repayments, giving increased financial stability at what 
could have been an already difficult time.
Mr and Mrs P say they always had savings,  not earmarked for anything,  but they 
cant confirm the value. The PPI would have  allowed them to use any savings to 
cover other living expenses whilst Mr P wasnt working, or to keep them  intact for 
their future needs. 
Mr P had life insurance  through work  and cover  for any accidents that happened 
whilst working,  or travelling for work.  This isnt suitable alternative protection. Life 
insurance offers a different  kind of protection to PPI, it wouldnt help with monthly  
loan repayments  in the same way as PPI. His accident cover also seems to have 
been limited to work-related incidents so he could have needed the PPI accident 
protection if he had an accident  that wasnt at work. 
Mr and Mrs P also said they had private  health insurance, endowment policies and 
pensions, but again these  are different products  that wouldnt  help in the same 
circumstances as PPI.
It appears that Mr and Mrs P could afford  the policy at the time and I havent  seen  
anything showing that they had a need  to keep  costs down.
Mr and Mrs P have  asked why the cover would only be for Mr P when the loan was in 
joint names. So Ive looked at whether I think the bank set up the cover between      
Mr and Mrs P correctly.  I cant  be sure if it did. But no matter how the cover  was set 
up, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs P wouldve  been the same. This is because the 
cost of the policy is based on the benefit it would pay. So although the policy only 
covered Mr P the cost wouldnt have changed  if the benefit had been shared 
between them. This means that they would  only be worse  off if Mrs P needed to 
make a claim. But Ive seen  no evidence this happened. So, as she never tried to 
make a claim on the policy Mr and Mrs P havent lost out. 
Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs P enough information so that they could decide 
whether to take out the PPI. Ive looked  at the documentation thats been provided and I 
cant be certain they were  given  all the information about the policy  that they needed. But I 
think that Mr and Mrs P would have bought the policy even if they had better  information.
I say this as Mr P wasnt caught  by any restrictions in the policy and would have been  
eligible for the full benefits. And as Ive already found the policy was suitable, competitively 
priced and affordable. So I dont think that knowing more about  the cost and benefit would 
have put Mr and Mrs P off taking  it out.
Mr P has also pointed  out that on their loan agreement the eligibility  questions  marked  A and 
B werent  completed.  Its not possible to know why this is, but for the reasons set out above 
this does not change my conclusion that the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN72571793It follows I dont think that Mr and Mrs P have lost out as a result of any problems with this 
sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Santander 
UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7257179