K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Ill 
refer to the business as BOS in my decision. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2018,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Mrs R responded with some comments.         
my findings
Mrs Rs representative responded to my provisional decision with a number of points but it seems  
at least one of these points refers to a mortgage  PPI policy. My decision is about a credit card PPI 
policy. 
The 30 day period  that Mrs Rs representative has referred to is the waiting period before 
an unemployment claim could be made.  After  30 days the policy would pay the monthly 
benefit. The monthly benefit of this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance  on 
the card or £10 whichever was greater.  So this point doesnt  change my decision. 
Its my understanding that if a redundancy payment  is a lump sum then Mrs R would still 
be able to register as unemployed.  I dont think that this point changes my decision.
Mrs R had an occasion  in 2005 when she may have been  able to claim on the policy. 
It would  be inappropriate  for me to comment on what an underwriter might say if    
Mrs R attempted to make a back dated claim on the policy.  But I can safely say that 
in the exclusions  section relating to the condition that Mrs Rs representative have 
described, the exclusion does state  unless the condition has been diagnosed  by a 
consultant psychiatrist and you are under the continued supervision and receiving 
treatment from a consultant psychiatrist.  
Having re-considered all the evidence and arguments already sent to us to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same 
reasons.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs R - if it hasnt already done  so, when I issue my 
final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Ref: DRN78512222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject 
my decision  before 19 March 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that this card and PPI were applied  for online and Mrs R then signed  a credit 
agreement.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ref: DRN78512223Ive seen a copy  of the data collected  from Mrs Rs online application. Section 8 says 
Credit Care Required? Next to this it says Yes.  Ive also noted that it states No 
next to Card Care.  This suggests that Mrs R would reasonably  have been aware 
that PPI was optional as she declined  another product. But I havent seen actual 
screen shots of what Mrs R wouldve been  presented with, just the data collected 
from the application.
What Ive then considered  is a copy of Mrs Rs credit card agreement.  On the 
agreement, she has signed separately to agree to take PPI.
Ive carefully considered  what Mrs R has said about the We strongly recommend  
wording on the credit  agreement. But Im satisfied that Mrs R was still aware that she 
had a choice as she was still required to sign separately if she wanted PPI. Although  
Mrs R has said that she felt that PPI was compulsory,  I've also noted that when she 
initially complained  she said that she didnt know that PPI had been added. But given 
the time thats  passed since this sale took place its not surprising that Mrs R may not 
recall everything clearly now.
On balance I think its more likely  than not that BOS made it clear  that Mrs R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she may not remember  this.
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
I dont think the we strongly recommend wording  amounts to a personal 
recommendation for Mrs R, particularly  as it seems that the initial  application was 
done online  without  anyone from BOS present. I havent seen any evidence that a 
personal recommendation was made  based  on Mrs Rs personal circumstances.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover.
 Based  on what Mrs R has told us about  a potential pre-exiting medical condition 
(PEMC) that she may have had around  the time of sale and how she managed it, it 
doesnt seem to have  impacted her daily life too much.  
So although  this policy excluded PEMCs, I dont  think better information about the 
exclusion would have  changed Mrs Rs decision to take out PPI as it seems that the 
likelihood of her needing to make  a claim because of her PEMC were  low and I think  
that its likely  that Mrs R would still want to be covered for all of the other reasons 
why she might be unwell and unable to work for potentially a lot longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of her wider circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs R off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN78512224Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what shes  said about not needing 
PPI because of her existing means of making her repayments. But I still think that she had a 
need for PPI because:
this PPI policy would have paid out for longer than the savings  Mrs R has 
described likely would  have lasted for.
having this PPI policy would mean that Mrs R wouldnt have  to take a step such  
as selling her car to make her credit  card repayments. 
although Mrs R may have had equity, the value of the equity could fluctuate 
because of a wide range of factors. Its also a possibility that the equity may not 
have been readily  releasable or accessible.
the PPI policy  would have paid out for longer  than Mrs Rs sick pay entitlement.
although Mrs R has said she was entitled to a generous redundancy package, 
Ive not seen  evidence  that it would have lasted for longer than the PPI would 
have paid out for. Based on her length of employment, it seems  reasonable to 
assume that the PPI policy  still could have paid out for longer than her 
redundancy pay likely would  have lasted. But Mrs R has a further opportunity to 
provide evidence  now.
even if Mrs R wanted to use the child benefit income she received to make her 
credit card repayments, this benefit  can change based on government  policy  and 
the age of her children. So I still think that she had a need for PPI and could have  
found it useful  if she needed to claim. 
So these points dont  change my provisional  decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs R when I issue my final decision.  
my provisional decision
I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
If Mrs R or Bank of Scotland  plc  have anything further to add, they should do so by                 
7 February 2019  and Ill then reconsider the complaint. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78512225
Ref: DRN7851222