K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Advantage Insurance Company Limited charged her an additional 
premium in relation  to her motor insurance policy. Miss Bs mother,  Mrs B, is helping  her to 
bring her complaint.
Advantage is the underwriter of Miss Bs policy. Reference to Advantage includes reference 
to its agents. 
background
In December 2018, Miss B applied for a policy via a price comparison website. Her annual  
motor policy  with Advantage started on 2 January 2019. Mrs B and Miss Bs father, Mr B, are 
named drivers under the policy.
Advantage conducted validation checks after the policy  started and on 11 January 2019, it 
contacted Miss B. It said that she hadnt  given accurate information in relation to the length  
of time shed  had a full licence and about a fault claim recorded against  one of the named 
drivers on her policy. Advantage charged  Miss B an additional premium of £96.01.
Miss B says she ticked  the box that indicated she had held a licence for between one and 
two years and that was the only option available. Miss B also says that she declared her 
fathers claim following  the theft of his vehicle and she wasnt asked whether that was a 
fault or non fault claim. She said that Advantage misinterpreted her answers. Miss B says 
that when Advantage phoned  to collect  the additional premium, it warned her that shed 
struggle to get insurance in the future if she didnt agree to pay the additional premium. 
Miss B says that she didnt realise Advantage could debit her parents credit  card without 
their permission. 
In response to Miss Bs complaint, Advantage said it understood the price  comparison site 
had an option  to enter the exact date Miss B obtained her licence and she entered 
31 October 2016, which wasnt correct as she obtained her licence on 7 April 2017. It also 
said Miss B said Mr Bs theft claim was non-fault, but it was in fact a fault claim. 
Miss B wants a refund  of the additional premium  and compensation for the time shes  spent 
dealing with this matter. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Under the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  Miss B 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for her 
insurance policy. And, for the insurer to take any action at all, it needs to show Miss B didnt 
do this and that she made whats described  as a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding  whether  the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers  questions were.  And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA  depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer  can show  it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
Ref: DRN79837222misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid  the policy, the insurer must show  it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid  the policy, it means  it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying  misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have and the 
consumer would have  offered the policy on different terms, it can amend the contract 
accordingly. 
Advantage thinks Miss B failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations 
when she stated in her application, via a comparison site, that shed had a full driving licence 
from 31 October 2016 and that Mr Bs claim in November 2015 following the theft of his 
vehicle was not a fault claim.  
As I said CIDRA sets out a number  of things that need to be considered when deciding 
whether a consumer  failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the 
questions the consumer was asked. 
Miss B took out the insurance policy online. Ive looked at the application Miss B would have 
gone through and I can see that she was asked a series of questions. In respect to her 
driving licence, its likely she was asked the following  sequence of questions:
Have you got a full or provisional licence?
How long have you held this licence?
When did you get your licence?
Miss B says the online  application didnt make  it clear  whether  it was asking whether this 
was in respect to when  she got her full or provisional licence  only when she got a licence. 
But I think its clear from the series of questions  asked  as it asks when she got this licence 
 that she needed to explain when  she got her full licence.  And she gave incorrect  
information in this respect.  
So I think it was fair for Advantage  to say Miss B had failed to take reasonable care when 
providing information about her driving licence.  I dont  think  Miss B did this deliberately  it 
seems she simply  made a mistake. CIDRA  would consider this to be careless 
misrepresentation. 
However, I dont think Miss B failed to take reasonable care in respect  to Mr Bs claims 
history. The relevant questions Miss B was asked are as following:
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years,  no matter who was 
at fault of if a claim was made?
Who was at fault?
Was the no claims discount affected?
Miss B told Advantage about  a claim Mr B had made for the theft of this vehicle. But she said 
the claim hadnt affected his NCD because it was protected. Advantage says this was 
incorrect as the previous  insurer did record the incident as affecting the NCD. But Ive also 
Ref: DRN79837223taken into account  the explanatory note that the comparison website gave, which said the 
following:
Your NCD  can be affected if the claim reduced  the number of years youd previously 
accumulated.
Your current insurance provider will tell you how many years of NCD you have and whether 
it was affected as a result  of the claim.
Ultimately, the claim Mr B made didnt reduce the number of years accumulated  on his NCD. 
Based on the explanatory note given  and the testimony Miss B and Mr B have given,  I cant  
say Miss B acted unreasonably. Advantage has highlighted that Miss B took out a number of 
quotes immediately  preceding taking  out the policy and, in some circumstances, she said the 
claim had affected the NCD. But I need  to think about whether Mr B  on Miss Bs behalf  
answered the question reasonably based  on what he asked. And, as I said above, I dont 
think he didnt do so. So I dont think there  was a qualifying  misrepresentation in respect to 
the claims history of those  insured under the policy. 
While I dont think it was fair for Advantage  to say there was a qualifying  misrepresentation 
in respect to the claims history,  I think it was fair for it to say there  was in respect to Miss Bs 
licence. CIDRA sets out what  an insurer may do in such  a situation. It says that insurers 
may: 
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that it will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply  
other exclusions  or limitations it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isn't 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
So CIDRA doesnt allow an insurer to simply impose  an additional premium, as Advantage 
did here. But we dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to highlight the issues it found  
and give the policyholder the option of paying  the additional premium in order  to keep  the 
policy going, or otherwise cancel it themselves.
Ive listened to the telephone call for when Advantage discussed the misrepresentation. Im 
satisfied Miss B chose  to pay the additional premium.  And I dont think Advantage unfairly  
pressurised her into doing so. I do think Advantage should have also given her the option to 
cancel the policy.  But, from listening to the call, Miss B was happy to pay the additional 
premium and I dont think she would have acted differently, had she been  given  the option to 
cancel the policy.
But, while I dont think it was unfair for Advantage to have said theres a qualifying 
misrepresentation in respect to how long Miss B had held a licence, Advantage is unable to 
tell us how much it would have charged  had it known the correct information.  Its provided a 
copy of its internal price  matrix  which sets out the difference between  what  it did initially 
charge her and what it says what it would have charged after adjusting  for both alleged 
misrepresentations. But its not been  able to show how it calculated this and how much it 
increased the premium  for each misrepresentation.
I accept Advantage  would have charged some  form of additional  premium  had Miss B given  
the correct information about  her licence. But, Im also conscious Miss B has suffered  some 
avoidable distress  and inconvenience  by whats happened  in this respect. Taking this into 
account, along with the fact that Advantage cant show how much  it would  have charged, I 
Ref: DRN79837224think the fairest way to resolve  this complaint is for Advantage to refund the £96.01 Miss B 
paid as an additional premium. I also think it should pay 8% simple interest on this from 
when she paid it until she gets it back. If Advantage  thinks that its required by HM Revenue  
& Customs to deduct  income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss B how much its taken 
off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax if appropriate.
Miss B responded to accept my provisional  decision.  Advantage didnt respond  to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint  and require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
1.refund  the £96.01 Miss B paid as an additional premium; and
2.pay 8% simple interest on this from when  she paid it until she gets it back. If Advantage  
thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should  tell Miss B how much  its taken off. It should  also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7983722