K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that had Lloyds Bank PLC handled his payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
complaint correctly, hed have been  in a better  financial position and his credit card wouldnt 
have been withdrawn.
background
Mr L had a number  of accounts with Lloyds Bank. As well as personal  accounts with Lloyds, 
he had accounts  for his limited company.
Mr L says he complained about PPI on both his business and personal credit  cards in 2012.  
He says Lloyds  upheld his complaint about PPI on his business credit  card but didnt uphold 
his complaint about his personal  credit  card.
Mr L says he contacted Lloyds in February  2013  to request a payment break  on his personal 
credit card. The payment break wasnt granted, and Lloyds withdrew the credit  card facility.
In 2017, Lloyds reviewed the PPI on Mr Ls personal credit  card and decided to uphold his 
complaint. It offered  to pay over £7,000 in compensation  for that policy.  
When he complained  to Lloyds about how his credit card facility was withdrawn,  it 
acknowledged that it should  have  given Mr L notice that it would be closing his account  and 
offered compensation for this. But Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint that, had his PPI 
complaint about  his personal credit card been previously upheld, his overall  financial position  
would have been significantly different.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds was within  its rights 
to make a commercial decision about  whether  to continue  lending to Mr L. Our adjudicator  
didnt think that Mr L receiving the PPI payment when he originally  complained about PPI 
was likely to mean that Mr L wouldve been  in a different  position  now.
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a decision. An ombudsmans  
decision is the last stage in our complaint  process  and if Mr L accepts my decision, it 
becomes legally binding on him and Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to determine  is whether Mr L would have been in a different position  
had Lloyds paid his PPI compensation when he first complained about it.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the compensation payment was something Mr L was always  
entitled to, even though  Lloyds says Mr L only became entitled to the payment after the 
review of PPI complaints  changed.
Having thought about everything, I cant conclude Mr L wouldve been in a different position  
had the compensation been paid earlier. Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN72672692Had the PPI compensation been paid in 2012,  it wouldnt  have been  as much as it was in 
2017 when Lloyds made the payment. From the information on Mr Ls credit file, at the point 
that Lloyds withdrew  his credit card facility, he owed  more  than the PPI payment  hed have 
likely received in 2012.  And so hed still have  been indebted on his credit card even if he had 
received the PPI payment  earlier.
Also, at the time Mr L requested a payment break in February 2013, he confirmed he 
wouldnt have an income until the end of that year. I think its likely  Mr L wouldve been in a 
similar financial position had Lloyds upheld his PPI complaint in 2012. That is, it seems  he 
wouldnt have been able to manage  his credit card repayments whether or not hed got that 
refund at that time.  In short,  the evidence doesnt  suggest that the timing  of his PPI refund 
made any difference to Lloyds commercial decision to withdraw  his credit card facility.
I agree  that Lloyds  should have given Mr L prior notice before doing so and I think  it was 
reasonable to put things right for Mr L about  this in the way that it did. But I wont  be asking it 
to do anything more.
I can appreciate that Mr L feels  strongly about  what has happened  here and that my findings 
are likely to disappoint  him. But having  carefully  considered the circumstances around this 
complaint, I dont think Lloyds needs  to do anything further.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
I make  no awards against Lloyds  Bank  PLC
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7267269