K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  after notifying 
them of some potential  fraudulent  transactions was poor. Mr B does  not think  that the level 
of compensation  offered by Lloyds  to be fair or reasonable.
background 
In June 2018 Mr B contacted Lloyds advising that he thought four transactions  on his 
account were fraudulent.  Some  days later he realised he was wrong and told the bank of his 
mistake. There followed a series of errors  by Lloyds which they acknowledged and 
accepted, in particular that his complaint was closed, and advised  by an agent  to pay the 
original recipients of the funds by an alternative method. Additionally that there were multiple 
letters which  he found unclear, incorrect, and some  undated. And also incorrect  transactions 
appeared on his statements.
In an attempt to resolve  the complaint, the bank paid Mr B £100 to reflect  the fact he had 
had to make  calls to the bank and for closing  his complaint without his consent.  It also paid 
him £130 for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked into 
the complaint.  The adjudicator thought Lloyds hadnt done enough to resolve the complaint 
and felt it should pay an additional  £200  to Mr B. Mr B disagreed  with that view and thought 
a sum nearer to £1,000 would be fair, and so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat the adjudicators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. It is 
accepted by Mr B that he made  a mistake regarding the entries  he thought  were  potentially 
fraudulent. That set in train a series of events  and actions by Lloyds which very clearly 
caused Mr B frustration and put him to the trouble of having  to make further calls to Lloyds.  
For their part, Lloyds  have  accepted  the service provided to Mr B fell below that he was 
entitled to receive.  They  have paid £230 and agreed to pay a further £200 by way of 
compensation following the issue of the adjudicators view of the complaint. 
What therefore remains  is for me to determine the appropriate level of compensation in all 
the circumstances, since  Lloyds have accepted they fell into error. That means that what  I 
need to decide is whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr B, and 
whether the amount of compensation now offered,  when taken together  with that already 
paid could be said to be fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN77180332I do accept that Mr B has spent a large  amount of time dealing with the complaint, but a part 
of that relates  to him seeking more compensation beyond that which the adjudicator 
recommended. I also accept that Mr Bs own time is precious, and that he has taken time in 
preparing and pursuing his complaint which will have impacted upon  his family and work.
I agree  with our adjudicator that there  were  further service failures beyond those Lloyds 
initially agreed to compensate  for, and those  issues have been correctly  identified and put to 
Lloyds by the adjudicator. 
I have given further thought to the recommendation of another  £200 of compensation to 
Mr B. It takes the overall level of compensation to £430. To my mind  that is a significant and 
sizeable sum in the context of this complaint and which  I think adequately reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds in its dealings with Mr B. 
It is also a sum which in line with the awards  this service would generally make for distress 
and inconvenience  in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair. An award of around the 
£1,000 mark,  for which Mr B contends,  would  be far too high in my view.  
So, although  I am upholding Mr Bs complaint  I cannot agree with his estimation of the 
appropriate level of compensation,  and I am not going to order Lloyds  to pay any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already agreed to pay a further £200 to settle the complaint and I think  
this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay a further £200 to Mr B, beyond  the £230 
already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7718033