K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that AWP  P&C SA gave him incorrect advice when he phoned for help, 
under his roadside assistance policy, which led to his car being  written-off.  
Reference to AWP includes its agent. 
background
Mr S called AWP for assistance after his car became stuck  in flood water.  Hed already 
called the police whod told him to call his roadside  assistance company. AWP told Mr S that 
as he was stuck in a ditch  he wasnt covered as that wasnt  a breakdown. It told him to 
contact his insurer. 
Mr S had to make  alternative  arrangements and called an ambulance  to rescue him. His car 
remained in the flood water and was written-off  by his insurance company. He phoned AWP 
the next day to discuss the advice hed been  given. He asked if his policy covered him if he 
was stuck in a flood - and AWP confirmed he would. Mr S was unhappy  with the service  hed 
received the previous day and brought his complaint to our service. He said hed suffered 
anxiety and panic  attacks as a result of not being recovered by AWP. He also said hed lost 
money as a result of his car being written-off.  He wanted AWP to compensate  him for that. 
AWP accepted it had made a mistake in the advice it had given. But said its operators 
wouldnt try to pull a car out of flood water  for safety  reasons. AWP said it understood how 
concerning the situation would have been  for Mr S but it didnt think  it was to blame  for the 
health problems  hed experienced as a result  of it. AWP offered  Mr S £75 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr S didnt  think this went far enough to compensate him. 
Our investigator didnt  think £75 was enough to compensate Mr S, as he wasnt  given the 
correct advice. She thought he would have found it distressing to be told AWP couldnt help 
and to then have his car written-off.  She recommended AWP pay Mr S an additional £300 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
AWP accepted our investigators findings  but Mr S didnt. He said the recommendation  of an 
additional £300 was disgraceful. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no doubt that AWP gave Mr S the wrong information when he called for help so Im 
not going to consider that further. Instead Im going to focus  on what I think  AWP needs to 
do to put things right. 
Ive listened to the call Mr S made  to ask for assistance. Its clear he was already in a 
traumatic situation when  he spoke to AWP. He told the advisor it was dark and the water 
was up to the wheels . The call handler  advised  Mr S to get out of the car and while  he 
didnt choose  to at first he said the water was getting higher and his car was stuck right in 
the middle of itliterally  cant  do anything. As the conversation continued Mr S said he was 
going to get out of the car because the water was really high.
Ref: DRN76698752Its difficult to know  exactly what would have  happened  if AWP had sent assistance, so Ive 
thought about whats likely to have happened. AWP said its operators dont pull cars out of 
flood water for health and safety  reasons. AWP also said it might  have taken  some  time for 
an operator to attend to Mr S. As it seems the water  was rapidly rising  and the water was 
already up to the wheels, I think its unlikely assistance from AWP would have prevented    
Mr Ss car from being written-off by his insurer.  So Im not going  to ask AWP to compensate  
him for that. I also understand Mr Ss car was recovered by the local council so he didnt 
incur any financial loss from that. 
I do think however that AWP refusing to provide  assistance would have  increased  Mr Ss 
distress and inconvenience in an already difficult situation. Thats because he had to make 
alternative arrangements and I can hear from the call that he was already  anxious.  But while 
AWP made things worse I havent seen enough to persuade me its responsible for Mr Ss 
increased anxiety  and panic attacks.  Thats because I think  its the whole situation thats 
likely to have caused Mr S distress. And Im not persuaded  its likely AWP would have 
prevented Mr S from having  his car written-off.
I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling  about what happened. But when  taking in account 
other awards  our service makes for cases of similar  seriousness, Im satisfied a total of £375 
is a fair and reasonable amount for AWP to pay Mr S for his distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr S a total 
of £375 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
AWP should pay this within  28 days of us telling it Mr S has accepted  my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it should  interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the 
date of my final decision to the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7669875