K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Nationwide Building Society wont  refund  him for gambling 
transactions he disputes were made  by him. 
background
Mr M had held an account with Nationwide since February 2018. In August 2018 after his 
sisters car was stolen,  he reported  his debit  card and phone missing  to Nationwide. He 
noted thered  been a lot of high-value  gambling  transactions on his account which he said 
werent him. When he called initially to report the fraud, he was led to believe hed be getting 
his money refunded.
Nationwide decided Mr M had made  these transactions himself  so wouldnt refund him. He 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included information about  a lot more  attempted 
 but declined  transactions happening  with the same gambling company and others all on 
26 August 2018.  Nationwide  could  also show theyd sent three messages to Mr Ms phone  
saying transactions  had been blocked using  Mr Ms card and asking him to confirm whether it 
was him. In all instances theyd got texts back confirming Y for yes. Theyd also said these 
transactions had all been declined so would have to be re-done if Mr M wanted these 
authorised. Like Nationwide, our investigator thought Mr M had authorised all of this spend 
with his debit card. Shed also found his story about the stolen  car and possessions didnt 
match evidence shed  got from the relevant insurance providers or the police.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint but 
not provided any further evidence to support his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for similar  reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, detail  on the transactions, the IP addresses and how the 
transactions were  made were comprehensively  covered in our investigators  view of 3 January 
2020. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there.  Except to say Im satisfied  Ive 
reviewed the complaint  thoroughly and considered  all the relevant evidence carefully.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transactions,  as well 
as what both Nationwide and Mr M have told us. Our investigator  also contacted all the 
relevant gambling  companies where  transactions  had been made or attempted during the 
disputed period, as well as other payment platforms. 
Ref: DRN73677222She also tried to get a full picture of what happened  with the stolen car.
It seems  from the evidence Ive seen  this car may not have been Mr Ms but his sisters. 
Mrs M has also described it as a friends car. It was supposedly stolen with both his and his 
sisters personal possessions in it. But the insurer at the time has no record of any claim. 
That in itself is surprising  if personal  possessions were also stolen. Mr M says the car was 
recovered a week  later with no damage. Local  police  were able to confirm  theyd  never been 
told the car was stolen.  Mr M disputes  this but the crime reference  he provided to us is 
actually an Action Fraud number (which would, of course, may be more relevant to the 
disputed transactions  which amounted to more  than £80,000).
I can see from Mr Ms statements that a significant sum was spent soon after this on what  I 
believe is a car.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Mr M had recently received very large  payments into his Nationwide account. More than 
£275,000 was paid in over a week in August 2018. Mr M has refused to tell us what these 
payments were as he argues this is irrelevant to our investigation.  I disagree as it informs 
us how Mr M used  his account.  I appreciate however that he may have privacy concerns.
Mr M had a history of gambling. In fact one of the last transactions  which  he didnt  
dispute on his account was in a casino for £4,000.
All of the disputed gambling  transactions took place on 26 August  between 10:10 and 
15:10. There  were over 70 transactions with only 11 being accepted.
One of the gambling companies  (who Ill call P) held accounts in Mr Ms name. P had 
previously suspended Mr Ms account. It then seems Mr M opened an account in his 
sisters name  but using an email address which would appear to be attached to him.
Although Mr M alleges this was done  by whoever stole  his and his sisters possessions,  I 
think this is very unlikely. Partly as I cant see any evidence  their possessions were  stolen.
If an unknown third party  had got hold of enough of Mr Ms personal details to open 
gambling accounts in his name  (a stretch in itself as there  would be no benefit  to the 
fraudster but putting  that issue to one side)  and then discovered  lots of transactions 
were being declined, the most  likely behaviour would be to move  to a different fraud  and 
discard Mr Ms card.
Its most  unusual for a fraudster to phone  the customers bank (as happened  here at 
13:22 on 26 August)  to check the balance  of the account and then continue  trying to use 
the card for the same activity.
Also no unknown  third party would assume that Mr Ms account  had the amount of 
money it did have in it to support  the spend  being  carried out. There was over £150,000 
in the account  when  Mr M called Nationwide (as I believe all the evidence  points  to it 
being him).  This suggests Mr M was just checking  he had as much money as he needed 
to continue  gambling.
I recognise there were  other online purchases  made after the gambling stopped  at 15:10 
but this was relatively small  compared to the gambling activity.
The phone  messages would suggest  these were carried out by Mr M. I cant  tell what  
number he was calling from but the way he identified  his postcode  and spoke  
compared to the calls he made to report his card was missing  seem  similar enough  for 
me to conclude this.
Ref: DRN73677223Overall based on the evidence  I can only conclude  that Mr M authorised  these transactions 
himself. He may well have then regretted spending so much  but I can also see Nationwide  
identified the unusual pattern of high-value spending  and declined  many attempts by Mr M to 
spend significantly more.  Although I can see from Mr Ms account statements, its clear that 
most of this money was then spent quite soon after either gambling overseas or elsewhere  
in the UK.
Ive considered the point Mr M raised that Nationwide implied he would get refunded.  I agree 
they could have made it clearer that there was no guarantee but he was quickly  told that 
because of the high-value  in dispute this would need  to be considered by a senior  manager. 
As Mr M knew  hed made these transactions himself I think  hes clutching  at straws to rely on 
this as a way of being refunded. I dont believe theres any obligation on Nationwide to do this.
Nationwide closed Mr Ms account shortly after this. Theyre allowed to do this and based on 
the use Mr M made of his account;  I cant say they acted unfairly here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367722