K821x#15complaint
Ms D complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  didnt handle  her car repairs  
properly when she claimed under her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms Ds car was in accident and Advantage arranged for it to be repaired by their approved 
garage (Advantages garage). She said that they took too long, didnt keep her informed 
and didnt repair her car to its pre-accident condition. Advantage fixed some  of the remaining 
problems, but not her cars daytime  running light or windscreen washers  because  they said 
they werent accident related. She wanted her car to be put back to the way it was before the 
accident.
The investigator recommended  that her complaint be upheld as it was more  likely than not 
that the damage to the light and windscreen  washer had been caused  in the accident. But 
Advantage didnt  agree  and so I have been  asked  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage accepted that their garages communication  with Ms D had been  poor and theyd 
taken too long to repair  her car. So they offered  her compensation of £50.00 for her 
inconvenience, and another  £50.00  for not dealing with her complaint in the required 
timescale. I think that this was reasonable of them. But they wouldnt repair  the outstanding 
issues, the daytime running light and the windscreen  washers.
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a car would be caused as this is a matter for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether  the insurer has considered all the available  evidence and 
whether they can justify  their decision to not pay for additional repairs.  
Ms D said that Advantages garage  had her car too long and didnt keep her informed. She 
felt she had to sort everything out herself. When she did get her car back  it still had a 
number of problems,  including  a flat battery,  a broken exhaust and wheel bearing, and her 
daylight running light and windscreen washers no longer  worked. Advantage fixed some of 
these issues, but they wouldnt fix the light or washers as they said that they werent 
accident related.  They  relied  on evidence from their garage,  a dealer and an independent 
assessor. Advantage felt that Ms D should have  to show them,  such  as by an independent 
report, that the accident had caused  the damage. She said they worked  well before the 
accident.
Advantages garage had replaced  the light but when  they tested it, it wasnt  working, so they 
sent it for checking  to a manufacturer garage  (the dealer). The dealer said in an email to the 
garage that the light issue looks not to be related  to the accident, but didnt explain why, 
and didnt refer to the washers issue. So I dont think that can be treated as conclusive. I see 
that Advantages records note that the dealer thought the light issue  to be related to the fuse 
box, but I dont  see any explanation of why the fuse box couldnt  have  been  damaged  in the 
accident. 
Ref: DRN73072722Advantage then asked  an independent assessor  to look at her car and consider the faults 
with the light and washers. Their report said only that these faults  may not be impact 
related and suggested that Ms D take her car back to the dealer to investigate  them  further. 
The report  said that Ms D wanted  Advantage to arrange this. But Advantage felt that it was 
up to Ms D. 
I think that the independent  report is by no means  conclusive. So I dont  think that 
Advantage had enough  evidence to suggest  that the problems with the light and washers  
were pre-existing, and instead they put the onus on Ms D to prove  that it wasnt. But I dont 
think that was fair in these circumstances. Thats because the light and wipers were  both in 
the area of the car that was damaged in the accident, and Advantage had to replace the 
light. So I think that its reasonable  to conclude on the balance  of probabilities that the issues  
were caused  by the accident, and it was up to Advantage to show that they werent. 
So I think that Advantage should pay for the repair of Ms Ds cars daytime running light and 
give her a hire car during  that repair. I understand that Ms D has already had the windscreen 
washers repaired herself, and its not clear if she was charged  for this. But if she was, and 
she can give Advantage written proof of that cost, then Advantage should reimburse her that 
too. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint and I 
require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to do the following:
Arrange and pay for the complete repair of Ms Ds cars daytime running light to 
ensure it works, or to reimburse her for that if she has since  had it repaired at her 
own cost, 
 
Arrange for her to be given a hire car while  she is without her car while  the light is 
being repaired, 
If Ms D has paid for the windscreen  washers to be repaired, compensate her for that 
subject to her showing  Advantage proof  of her payment.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7307272