K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about issues  hes experienced with a  car supplied with finance  from Ald 
Automotive Limited.
background
In March 2017 Mr N was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with Ald 
Automotive.
Mr N says the satellite  navigation  system (satnav) was one of the main  factors  in his 
decision to hire the car. Hes explained  that he drives to different locations for work and 
needs an up to date satnav system so he can find locations easily  and avoid traffic jams.
Mr N says the maps within the satnav  system  are out of date. He reported his concerns to 
Ald Automotive but it said that at the time of delivery the car had the most  up to date satnav 
software available from the manufacturer. It declined  Mr Ns request to reject the car but 
offered him £200 as a gesture of goodwill,  which  he accepted.
Mr N complained to this service. He says hes had to enter into a two year mobile phone 
contract so he can use google maps as an alternative to the satnav.  He wants to reject the 
car because  he doesnt  think it is of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the age of the software wasnt enough 
to say the car wasnt fit for purpose  or of unsatisfactory  quality.  He said the £200 payment 
already made to Mr N was fair and sufficient to enable him to purchase  a portable satnav if 
he wished.
Mr N didnt agree. He said the maps supplied with the car in April 2017 were two years old 
and even though hed bee told by the manufacturer that an update was imminent  this hadnt  
happened. He said the satnav system was the key factor in his decision to hire the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law implies  a term that a  car  is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors  such as the price 
paid, fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety  and 
durability.
Mr N has said that the satnav system is out of date and that the car isnt fit for purpose as a 
result.
I appreciate that the maps  were  approximately 2 years old when the car was supplied. 
However, theres no evidence that theres a fault or a defect with the satnav system. The 
manufacturers website  states that the software installed in the car is the most up to date 
software available.  Theres no evidence that the satnav system isnt functioning or that Mr 
Ns ability to drive the car has been impaired.
Ref: DRN74501712I havent seen  any information to suggest  that the dealership made  any representations 
about the satnav system. Whilst I agree that its reasonable for a customer to expect that the 
latest version of the software has been installed in a brand new car, in this case, Im satisfied 
that the latest version of the software  is installed. So Im unable  to say that theres been a 
misrepresentation.
Mr N has said that the satnav feature was the main factor in his decision to hire the car. Hes 
been supplied  with a car which has a satnav feature. The dealership  has said that Mr N 
didnt ask about the age of the software installed in the satnav system when he was 
discussing the features  of the car. If the satnav  was of importance  in Mr Ns decision to hire 
the car, I would have  expected him to have asked  questions about the age of the software 
and to have tested the satnav system  before deciding to hire it to make  sure it was sufficient 
for his purposes.
Based on what Ive seen,  I cant say that the software being  two years old at the point of 
supply is sufficient to render the car of unsatisfactory quality. So I wont  be asking Ald 
Automotive to allow  Mr N to reject the car.
I can see that Mr N has tried to resolve  the issue by entering into a new mobile  phone  
contract so he can use google maps instead.  Ive thought about whether he should  be 
refunded for the cost of his new phone.  But on balance I dont think a refund is fair. Mr N has 
said that his previous phone was capable of being  used for navigation  purposes. If Mr N 
needed more  data allowance in order to use his old phone  for navigation, he could have 
switched to a plan which gave him more data rather than buying a new phone.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ns frustration, Im unable to conclude that the car is of unsatisfactory  
quality. I dont have  power  to require the manufacturer to upgrade the software  where no 
upgrade is currently  available. In the circumstances, I think the compensation already paid to 
Mr N was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450171