K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mrs G applied  to Halifax for a loan. She also took out PPI to protect the loan 
repayments if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mrs G mainly says that as she had other means  she couldve relied on 
to pay her loan, including a sick pay scheme at work, she didn't need  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs G to remember precisely what was discussed at the 
time as this sale took place so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold this mis-sale complaint. I have to look at everything and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
I think Halifax made Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to have it. 
I say this because  the application Mrs G wouldve filled in to get the loan asked if she wanted  
PPI or not  so shed have been able to say if she hadnt wanted  PPI added on to her loan.
And on the loan agreement  Mrs G signed there  were clearly  marked Yes and No options  
next to the question: Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance? which  I think  
Mrs G wouldve seen. It looks as if, based  on what shed  told Halifax, it had marked the yes 
box and Mrs G had then signed the completed loan agreement. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed. But, I find the way that information about the PPI is 
set out in the loan paperwork clearly shows that PPI was optional  and Mrs G chose to have 
it.  
Halifax says it advised Mrs G to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of Mrs Gs situation  at the time.  
Mrs G was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  PPI wouldve covered the 
monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months if Mrs G lost her job. 
Ref: DRN73602482And although she had some  sick pay entitlement at work, the policy provided her with better 
cover for longer than she couldve relied on her employer  to pay her sick pay. It wouldve 
paid out in full for up to 60 months  per claim if shed been unable  to work as a result of 
accident or sickness. And repeat  claims were possible giving Mrs G long term protection for 
her loan  which was due to run for 25 years  when she set it up. 
 
I cant assume that other people would always be in a position to pay her loan if Mrs G had 
money problems as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And, although she 
had death in service  benefit through work,  PPI provided a different sort of cover  and paid out 
in different circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mrs G told us she couldve  sold her property if required. But 
I dont think this would make the recommendation to take PPI unsuitable. Halifaxs records 
show that Mrs G took out this loan to pay for a car. Having PPI protected her against the risk 
of having to sell her home just to pay a car loan. 
So, on balance, I find that the PPI was suitable  for her. 
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost Mrs G each  month, as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment,  and the total monthly payment shed have to make.  So 
I think Mrs G wouldve  been aware how much shed be paying  for the insurance. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  
Mrs G wasnt  affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover and the policy  seems  
to have been affordable. Given the benefits  it offered her, I think it unlikely that Mrs G 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if better information had been provided.  
This means  I dont  find that Mrs G has lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7360248