K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Kindertons Ltd dealt  with his claim following  a road traffic 
incident. 
background
Mr M is a self-employed taxi driver  registered with the local council. On 6 November 2018 Mr 
Ms taxi was involved in a road traffic incident.  
Kindertons instructed an engineer to assess the damage to Mr Ms car, and arranged  for Mr 
Ms car to be collected  and sent to one of their approved garages  for repair.  Mr M was 
provided with a hire car. 
On 20 November Mr M contacted Kindertons  asking for an update  on where his car was. 
Kindertons contacted the repairers. The repairers said that they hadnt been told where  Mr 
Ms car had been  parked  when it was dropped off, but after checking their car park 
confirmed Mr Ms car was with them. The next day Mr M was provided  this update. 
On 26 November the engineers report found that Mr Ms car was unfit  for taxi use at the 
time of the incident. The engineers report also commented that Mr Ms car had previous 
extensive damage to the lhr bumper  areabased on all of this I suggest that this claim is 
dealt with on a cash in lieu basis for renewal  of the cracked lamp and a reasonable cost for 
this would be £131.00 excluding VAT. 
Kindertons tried to contact Mr M by text and phone to say that the hire car would need to be 
returned. The call attempts were  unsuccessful. On 6 December  Mr M was sent a text 
message saying We need to arrange the collection of the hire car. You are no longer 
entitled to use the hire and the insurance will be revoked.  The next day Mr M spoke to 
Kindertons saying he was unhappy that the hire car was being  collected when his own car 
wasnt going to be repaired  by Kindertons. 
On 10 December Kindertons spoke with the local council,  and the council was sent a copy  of 
the engineers  report. On the same day Mr M was sent a text message saying just a quick 
message to confirm  collection of the hire on Tuesday [11 December], please ensure you and 
the vehicle are available. Failure to do so will result in the insurance  being cancelled. Our 
driver will call when on route. 
 
On 11 December Mr M called Kindertons saying that hed taken the day off work to return  
the hire car however  he didnt  hear anything. Mr M complained about Kindertons  losing his 
car, the comments made by the engineer,  the calls and text messages about return  of the 
hire car, and lack of communication  on the case.  Collection of the hire car took place on 14 
December. 
Mr M collected his car from the repairers  on 18 December.  Mr M also enquired  about the 
cost of transferring  his taxi licence plate back to his car, and it was recorded adv we would 
ask TPI [Third Party Insurer] to pay him back for this. 
On 21 December Kindertons wrote to Mr M regarding his complaint, not offering any 
compensation in respect of the issues raised.  
Ref: DRN74950112On 17 January 2020 Mr M sent Kindertons a receipt for £111.59 for the cost transferring his 
taxi licence plate  back to his car. 
On 23 January 2019 Mr M contacted  Kindertons  to complain about warning lights on his car, 
and an engine leak. On 31 January  Kindertons  wrote to Mr M saying that there wasnt  
enough evidence  to say whether the issues  were  accident related, and so they wouldnt be 
offering any compensation for this complaint. Mr M was told he could obtain a diagnostics 
report and this would be forwarded to the engineer for consideration. 
In March Mr M complained to Kindertons about the lack of updates and call backs  regarding  
his claim.  In April Mr M referred his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman  Service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that Kindertons  couldve handled things better. The investigator  said 
that Kindertons  should pay Mr M £50 for failing to update him about the location  of his car, 
and £100 for the upset caused to Mr M when they didnt  collect  the hire car from him when 
they said they would. The investigator  also said that Kindertons should issue  an apology  for 
a call that was disconnected on 22 November  2018. Mr M didnt agree with these findings, 
saying that many of his issues remain unresolved,  and the communication  from Kindertons  
has been poor throughout. Kindertons didnt  provide  any comments in response to the 
investigators findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I broadly 
agree with the investigators findings  and outcome on this complaint. I can understand this is 
likely to come as a disappointment  to Mr M but I hope my findings  go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.
Ive reached a different outcome on one of the complaints where  the investigator found  
Kindertons had acted  unreasonably, and asked that they apologise  to Mr M. Mr M has 
already disagreed with the investigators findings,  and I dont believe this difference in 
opinion affects  the overall  outcome of the complaint. So Ive issued a final decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific  
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
Mr M has provided information about  rules set by the regulator about how insurance claims 
should be handled. I should clarify that Mr M held third party cover for the insurance covering  
his taxi, and so his claim wasnt dealt with as an insurance claim through  this policy.  While 
we consider relevant rules and best practice when deciding  a complaint, our approach 
focuses on whether the service provided is fair and reasonable.  
Communication about location of Mr Ms car
Its not disputed  that Mr M was provided with confusing information about what had 
happened to his car. Mr M says he contacted Kindertons  and was told his car was missing.  
During a call on 20 November 2018  both Mr M and Kindertons were unsure where Mr Ms 
car had been  left. 
Ref: DRN74950113Kindertons made enquiries  with the repairers and they found out that Mr Ms car had been 
dropped off on 15 November. But at the time of the drop-off the repairers hadnt been  told 
where Mr Ms car had been parked, and whether the key had been handed in. Mr M was 
sent a text message on 21 November confirming the repairers had received both the car and 
car key on 15 November. 
I can appreciate Mr M mustve been frustrated by the information provided  to him on 20 
November. Kindertons couldnt provide conclusive information about what had happened 
with his car after it was picked  up from him on 15 November. The impact of this was short 
lived as the call with Kindertons asking about  the car took place on 20 November, and Mr M 
was provided with reassurance about  the whereabouts  of his car, and car key, the next day. 
Although short lived, I appreciate the upset caused and have considered the impact  of this 
when deciding overall compensation for the complaint. 
Engineers comments on roadworthiness  of car at time of accident
Mr M says that Kindertons made a decision that his car was not fit for purpose,  and told the 
council this. Mr M says Kindertons have committed a data protection  breach by sharing this 
information with the council. 
The engineers report found that Mr Ms car was unfit for taxi use at the time of the incident. 
An engineers professional opinion  is generally  regarded as an impartial  and independent 
view. Generally wed say its fair for an accident  management company to rely on this 
evidence when dealing  with a claim. Mr M feels that this information shouldnt have been  
shared with the council. 
Its not the role of this service to investigate,  and punish a business  for data protection 
breaches. But we do assess complaints about  data protection breaches and reach a 
decision on whether  the actions of a business  are fair and reasonable, and in line with what  
wed expect in the circumstances of the complaint. 
While I appreciate Mr Ms frustrations with whats happened,  I dont think Kindertons have 
acted unfairly here. Kindertons were provided  with information about the roadworthiness of 
Mr Ms car. As the council was responsible for providing Mr M with a license, and Kindertons 
had information  concerning the safety of Mr Ms taxi, I dont think  they acted  unreasonably  
by sharing this information with the council. So I wont be asking them  to do anything in 
settlement of this complaint. 
Car returned with further issues
Mr M says his car was returned to him with further  damage. Mr M believes that this damage 
was likely caused by Kindertons approved repairer. Mr M says as he was told his car had 
been lost, its likely that this damage was caused during this time. 
Kindertons say that there isnt enough  evidence to say that issues with the warning light and 
oil leak were caused by the repairers. Kindertons provided Mr M with the option  to obtain his 
own diagnostics report to be reviewed  by the engineer. 
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. It 
doesnt feel fair to say that Kindertons should investigate  the additional damage caused,  
Ref: DRN74950114when the evidence Ive seen supports that the repairers werent  instructed to carry out work  
on Mr Ms car. 
On balance I cant say that the issues with the warning  light and oil leak were caused by the 
repairers. Mr M says he was told his car was lost, and this would reasonably support the 
damage being caused while in Kindertons care. But the whereabouts of Mr Ms car has 
already been explained  above, and it doesnt  appear Mr Ms car was lost during this time. 
For the reasons  explained I wont be asking Kindertons to take any further  action in 
settlement of this complaint. 
Communication regarding  collection of hire car
Mr M says he was threatened  with text messages and calls demanding return of the hire car. 
Mr M says his job as a taxi driver makes it difficult to answer calls. 
Once the engineer made a decision on Mr Ms claim, Kindertons  contacted  Mr M to ask for 
the hire car to be returned. Kindertons provided Mr Ms hire car on a credit basis. This 
means that on conclusion of Mr Ms claim,  the costs are usually recovered from the TPI. 
Because of this, its important to ensure any costs claimed from the TPI are fair and 
proportionate. Its usual for a customer to be asked to return a hire car once an engineer has 
reached an assessment,  even when details about  finalising the claim are still being 
confirmed. 
In this case, although I accept Mr M was sent numerous calls and texts asking him to return 
the hire car, I think these  actions were fair and in line with what  wed expect. The engineers  
comments were  of concern because  they cast doubt on whether the TPI would agree to 
cover the claim costs. So I think chasing  Mr M to ensure these  costs  didnt escalate was fair. 
It was agreed with Mr M that return of the hire car would take place on 11 December 2019. 
Mr M made arrangements  for this to happen.  But Kindertons didnt manage this properly, 
and return of the hire car didnt take place until 14 December. The service provided  by 
Kindertons here was poor. Kindertons had been chasing Mr M for return of the hire vehicle  
since 26 November. Mr M was hoping for this to take place on 11 December, and the reason 
this didnt go ahead was because of an oversight on the part of Kindertons. Mr M says he 
lost out on a days work, equivalent to approximately £150.  Ive taken this into consideration 
when deciding fair compensation for this complaint. 
Failed call-backs and lack of updates about the claim
Mr M says that Kindertons failed to call him back when he left messages, and there  was a 
general lack of updates when dealing with his claim.  Mr M referred specifically to a call on 22 
November 2018  when he was told his car had been on-site at the repairers, and the problem 
had been sorted.  
This call became increasingly  frustrating for Mr M and the call handler. From listening to this 
call its clear that Mr M was upset by the call handlers explanation  on where his car had 
been. Mr M asked to speak to someone  whos in charge . The call handler tried to explain 
that he was the right person to answer Mr Ms questions. The call handler terminated the call 
after it was agreed  that a manager would call Mr M back. The investigator  found that it would 
be reasonable for Kindertons to provide an apology for this call. I can appreciate  Mr M was 
Ref: DRN74950115upset by his experience with Kindertons during, and after this call. But I dont think an 
apology is fair compensation here.  
While Mr M was understandably upset about  the way Kindertons dealt with the issue  
concerning his car, the call handler  was professional  in trying to explain what  had happened.  
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and the conversation became increasingly difficult for 
both sides. I can appreciate Mr Ms frustrations but I dont think it would be fair to say the call 
handler acted unreasonably. So I wont be asking  Kindertons to do anything in settlement of 
this complaint. 
Plate-transfer, and cash-n-lieu  payment  outstanding 
Mr M says that he still hasnt been refunded  the cost of the plate transfer from January 2019, 
and the cash-in-lieu payment agreed by the engineer. 
Ive seen that Mr M provided  Kindertons with a receipt for £111.59  for the cost transferring 
his taxi licence  plate back to his car in January 2019. I cant  see that Kindertons  updated Mr 
M after telling him that this would be forwarded to the TPI for consideration. 
In respect of the cash-in-lieu  payment,  on 19 June  2019 Mr M asked Kindertons if there was 
any update regarding the repairs that needed  to be carried  out to his car. Mr M was told that 
he would  need  to provide  the repair invoices, including a breakdown of the costs. On 3 July 
Kindertons decided to write- off the costs  for Mr Ms claim  because  of the comments  from 
the engineer about the roadworthiness of Mr Ms car at the time of the incident.  
Kindertons made a decision to write off Mr Ms claim in July 2019. This means that they 
decided not to claim back the claim costs from the TPI. But Mr M wasnt told what  impact  this 
would have on his claim. If Kindertons couldnt  agree to refund Mr M the cost of his plate 
transfer, Mr M shouldve been told. I cant see that theyve updated Mr M since  receiving his 
receipt In January 2019.
In March 2019 Mr M raised a third complaint letter with Kindertons about  their general lack of 
communication on his claim, and updates. I cant see that Kindertons provided Mr M or this 
service with a response to this complaint. 
I think the communication from Kindertons in respect of the cash in lieu payment, and how to 
claim this cost, has been poor. Although  Kindertons  made a decision not to pursue the TPI 
for costs relating  to Mr Ms claim, Mr M shouldve been told what  this would mean for his 
claim, and in particular,  the cash in lieu payment. Despite Mr M raising concerns about not 
being told what was happening with his claim in March 2019,  I cant  see that Kindertons  
have reached out to Mr M at any time. 
Kindertons used text message  to communicate  with Mr M during his claim. At the very 
minimum, a text message  update confirming the costs Mr M was waiting for payment for 
wouldve been reasonable.  Ive taken this into consideration when deciding  fair 
compensation for this complaint.
putting things right
I think the communication from Kindertons in updating Mr M about his claim couldve been  
better for the reasons  explained. This has caused  particular upset to Mr M surrounding the 
location of his car, and updates in respect of progression  of his claim, and claiming for costs.  
Mr M has also been caused trouble and upset because Kindertons  failed to arrange for 
Ref: DRN74950116collection of the hire car when they said they would. Because of this, I think  its fair that 
Kindertons pay compensation for what went wrong in the claim and the impact on Mr M.  
I think the £150 recommended by the investigator  is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
This compensation reflects  the parts of the claim that couldve been handled better. But 
ultimately there are aspects of the claim which I cant say Kindertons acted unfairly on- 
including relying  on the engineers opinion when assessing the claim,  and the information 
communicated to the council. For the reasons explained, I wont be directing any further  
compensation than that already proposed  by the investigator in settlement of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Kindertons Ltd should pay Mr M £150  in 
recognition of the impact on Mr M because of their poor handling of parts  of the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495011