K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He wants the outstanding 
payments to be waived.  He also complains about the way the agreement was terminated.
background
Mr A tells us that he acquired the vehicle  in January 2016. He says that in June 2018 the 
vehicle broke down and this was diagnosed  as due to a broken turbo. As the vehicle was still 
in warranty Mr A says he asked for the repair to be done. But he states that the warranty 
providers - not RIC - refused. Mr A says he then turned to RIC for advice and help as he 
couldnt afford to pay for the repairs  himself.  Mr A states that he was forced  to hand the 
vehicle back and has been left with a £7,000  debt after RCI auctioned the vehicle.
RCI told us that Mr A had reported his vehicle had broken down in June 2018. It said hed 
informed RCI that the manufacturers had refused to honour the warranty. And that as he 
couldnt afford the repairs hed have to return the vehicle.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that in order  for 
RCI to be held responsible for paying for the turbo  repairs Mr A wouldve had to have shown 
the fault was present at the point of supply.  He noted that Mr A had already been  in arrears 
when the breakdown occurred. He advised that the debt was reduced  to £3,914.77 after the 
proceeds of sale were applied and not the £7,000  Mr A had mentioned  in his complaint.
Mr A didnt accept the outcome. He said hed tried to arrange a payment  plan with RCI but it 
had refused. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. RCI supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle.
Im sorry  that Mr A found himself in this difficult situation. And I understand hed be 
disappointed he couldnt get the vehicle repaired under the warranty.
In line with our investigator I need to explain that as this complaint is made against RCI Im 
not able to deal with the issues regarding the warranty. I understand the warranty  was 
supplied by the vehicle manufacturers  which is a different company. I believe a separate  
complaint was registered for that matter.
Its not in dispute  that the vehicle broke  down in June  2018. Which was around two and a 
half years  after supply  to Mr A. I dont apply  the law - directly - but I do take it into account. 
Relevant legislation here includes the Consumer Rights  Act (CRA) of 2015.
Ref: DRN74045782Briefly summarised, the CRA states that in order to conform to contract  goods  must be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And it provides a consumer with certain rights to 
reject goods  or have  them repaired.  After the expiry of six months from the time of supply its 
up to the consumer to show  that faults - which result in the vehicle no longer conforming to 
contract - were  present at the point of supply.
Ive seen an invoice  from a company Ill call H. This states the turbo  failed. As there was no 
service history H said the repair couldnt  be done  under warranty. By this time, Mr A had 
possessed the vehicle for well over two years and Im not aware of any other reported faults 
of this nature.  Its highly improbable that the vehicle couldve been driven over this period if 
this fault had been present at the point of supply. So theres nothing to show it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at that time. As such RCI wouldnt  be liable for the repairs.
Dealing with the issue of the termination of the agreement  Ive seen RCIs notes of ongoing 
contact with Mr A. These show  that prior to the vehicle breaking down Mr A had been in 
arrears. And whilst payment arrangements  had been made Mr A hadnt always kept to the 
arrangements. Consequently a notice of default  was issued and this expired on 25 
September 2018 without Mr A satisfying the default.  It seems  the agreement  was then 
terminated with the initial shortfall  stated to be £7,695.15. Mr A eventually  agreed to 
surrender the vehicle  and it was recovered  in January 2019. The net proceeds of the 
subsequent auction sale were applied  to the account. And the shortfall was reduced to 
£3,914.77. I see no reason  why RCI shouldnt seek repayment from Mr A, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the finance  agreement.
I think RCI acted fairly  in terminating the agreement to prevent arrears increasing still further. 
Its applied the net proceeds of sale to the account  and that is also fair. 
In summary,  theres nothing to show the vehicle  wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. RCI was entitled to terminate the agreement when it did due to the level of arrears.  
Nothing in my decision affects any complaint  Mr A may have against the warranty provider. I 
find that RCI has acted  fairly in dealing with the circumstances  surrounding  this complaint.
I shant be asking it to do anything else. And Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404578