K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  in 1986.
background
Briefly:
In 1986 Mr B took out a PPI policy in connection  with his mortgage. According  to BoS 
records Mr B already had a mortgage in existence  at the time of the sale  since  around  
1980. So, the two things  didnt happen  at the same time.
Given the limited evidence about  something  which happened over thirty years ago, its not 
entirely clear  how the sale came  about   Mr B says he received  a mailing about it. But he 
also says he might have spoken to someone  in his local branch about it. Ill address this in 
more detail below.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Bs mortgage payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  From the evidence Mr B has provided, it 
appears at the outset  the policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and it cost 
around £12 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr B was employed and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. He said he had some  savings  and an 
investment property he couldve sold if needed to make  his repayments. He said he was in 
good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
they thought there was nothing to indicate  the policy was mis-sold. But they said BoS offer 
to pay back some of what Mr B paid for PPI in relation to high commission  and profit share  
was fair.
Because Mr B disagrees, the complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint for broadly the same  reasons  as those given  by our adjudicator. My 
reasons are set out below.
As a starting point,  its important to say that this complaint is about an event which  happened 
many years ago. Mr B himself acknowledges that standards were very different then. And Mr 
B is right. This was at a time before  statutory  regulation of insurance and before the first 
voluntary industry  code  of practice   the Association of British  Insurers General Insurance  
Business Code of Practice  The ABI code was first introduced  in 1989, which set the tone 
for much of todays regulatory standards. 
Ref: DRN78471482As such it wouldnt  be fair to retrospectively apply these business standards  when  
considering this complaint today. My considerations  are therefore essentially confined  to the 
common law - including the law relating to misrepresentation and contract - as well as 
having regard  to the general principles of good industry practice.  
Im firstly satisfied that because Mr Bs mortgage  was already live and had been for several  
years before he took out PPI  the two things didnt happen at the same time - I dont think 
BoS misrepresented the policy as being  a condition of the lending.  I think its reasonable to 
assume Mr B understood this was a separate and optional insurance  cover;  albeit I can see 
he says he felt pushed  into buying PPI which I will go on to consider below.
how did the sale come  about?
Its not entirely clear  from the evidence available how the sale came about.  Mr B says he 
received a mailing about PPI and hes provided  some pages from this. But he also says he 
might have visited his local branch to discuss it with staff members  there.  BoS has said it 
was a sale by post  its also told us it was an advised sale. But I dont think  the two things 
are compatible.
Looking at what both parties have said  I think its likely this was a sale by post. I think the 
evidence Mr B has provided about the mailshot  and the subsequent paperwork he received 
about his application and policy is particularly persuasive  for example the original mailing 
contained a special offer of a months free cover if the application  was returned by a certain 
date and Mr Bs policy confirmation  letter shows he benefitted from this.
Nevertheless, Im mindful that based  on what  both parties have said,  it might indicate there 
was some staff involvement  in the sale. So, to be fair to Mr B Ive therefore gone  on to 
consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances at the time.   
was PPI suitable for Mr B?
While I dont know what steps BoS took in any advice it gave Mr B and whether it advised 
him with reasonable care and skill, I nevertheless think PPI was ultimately  suitable  for Mr B 
based on his circumstances at the time.
I say this because  Mr B was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment  circumstances;  and I think he had a need for cover  notwithstanding  his 
existing means.
While Mr B had what could  reasonably  be described  as generous sick pay, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for longer if necessary   up to 24 months per claim  
relieving financial pressure at what would likely  be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time;  
particularly if Mr B was made  unemployed. Any savings Mr B mightve had available to make  
his mortgage payments  would quickly be used up if he was off work for an extended period.
So, given the policy was protecting Mr Bs mortgage  payments and therefore ultimately his 
home, I think  the policy couldve proved useful to him if the insured risks became a reality.
Mr B says he also had a share in an investment property, which he couldve sold to raise 
funds to meet his mortgage payments.
 
Ref: DRN78471483But an investment  of this nature is not a liquid asset  - Mr B wouldnt likely  have been  able to 
get his hands on the available funds quickly or easily. So, I dont think  the existence of this 
type of asset makes  the PPI policy  unsuitable  or that any advice given to him shouldve  
taken this into account.
Overall, considering Mr Bs circumstances  at the time, I think  PPI was suitable for him.
the information
Ive said theres limited evidence about  exactly what information Mr B was given about PPI  
what evidence there is Mr B has provided about  the mailshot he received.
Mr B says the language used in this information was emotive to encourage people  to take 
out the cover and the policy wasnt properly explained to him. And while the provision of the 
information about PPI might  not be adequate by more modern standards, I dont think that 
BoS breached  the duties and standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in providing information about  an insurance policy at the time.
For example, I think the premiums were calculated and charged  in the way the business 
described and the policy  provided  cover in a variety of circumstances as it described  albeit 
with limitations. So, Ive not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that BoS misrepresented 
the policy to Mr B.
In conclusion and after careful consideration of the evidence available in this case,  I think  the 
policy was ultimately suitable for Mr B based on his circumstances at the time. And Im not 
persuaded that BoS misrepresented the policy to Mr B inducing  him to buy it when he 
wouldnt otherwise  have done  so.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But BoS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Ref: DRN78471484Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7847148