K822xComplaint
Miss N complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) shouldnt have agreed to lend her money under a conditional sale 
agreement, because it was unaffordable.
Background 
In September  2017, Miss N obtained  a caravan using a conditional sale agreement with 
BPF. She says she couldnt afford to repay  the loan and that BPF shouldve  realised  this  
she had a poor credit rating, her only income was benefits and shes  disabled.
Miss N made two monthly  payments and then, following  receipt of a lump sum in 
December 2017,  she settled the loan.
BPF said Miss N passed its affordability assessment and met its lending  criteria.
Our adjudicators conclusion
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld,  concluding that BPF 
carried out enough checks during the application process to satisfy  itself that the loan was 
affordable.
Miss N didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
She couldnt have sustained the monthly  payments   shed given no proof that she 
would receive  a lump sum in December. Her benefits werent guaranteed and were  in 
fact reduced in May 2018.
Her monthly income was only £1,100 at the most  she couldnt have afforded the loan 
payments and the pitch fees.
The National  Caravan Council  (NCC)  awarded her £560  so it mustve thought 
something was amiss.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold  the complaint. I said that:
When Miss N brought her complaint to this service, she also complained that the 
supplier had misrepresented  the agreement. We concluded  that an independent  case 
examiner from the NCC had already considered this issue,  so we wouldnt consider that 
part of her complaint.  The NCC investigated  what the supplier had, or hadnt, done and 
any award it made has no bearing on the outcome here. My role is to consider the 
actions of BPF in deciding  to lend to Miss N.
What I need to consider is if BPF did enough  to check if the lending  was affordable for 
Miss N when it provided the finance. If it didnt, I need to think  about whether this 
wouldve affected its decision  to give Miss N the lending or not.
Ref: DRN76122282There isnt an exact set of checks that I would expect BPF to have made before 
deciding whether to lend to Miss N. But, it needed to make proportionate checks   
taking into account  things like the amount of the finance requested,  the monthly 
repayments and what it knew about  Miss N and her circumstances.
Miss N says BPF shouldnt  have  lent to her because her only income was benefits. I 
dont find that this, on its own, would be a reason for BPF not to agree to lend. Benefits 
are a legitimate means of income and whilst they may increase or decrease over time,  
BPF needed to consider whether Miss N was in receipt of enough income when she 
applied for the loan to meet the repayments  whether her income was in the form of a 
salary or benefits. 
For the same reason,  I cant see a reason why Miss Ns disability wouldve stopped  BPF 
lending to her. I havent seen anything to suggest  that her disability  affected  her ability to 
understand the loan she was entering  into.
The finance  provided was £32,550, with monthly  repayments of just over £460. I think 
this is quite a large amount of money  to lend.  And, the borrowing was taken  over seven 
years  so Im satisfied  this represented a significant  financial commitment for Miss N, 
who was retired. I would  expect the checks BPF did to reflect this.
BPF received information about Miss Ns income  from the supplier. BPF says Miss N 
declared her monthly income to be £2,167. But Miss N provided us with bank 
statements from around the time which showed her income to be nearer £1,200.  So we 
asked BPF for evidence  of Miss Ns self-declaration  of income. It could only provide 
paperwork showing Miss N had confirmed  her income was £1,200.
So I think its clear Miss Ns income was much  lower than BPF recorded in its records. I 
dont know who was responsible for the discrepancy. But I think  the cost of the loan was 
quite likely to be unaffordable,  based  on the correct  figures. I say this particularly  when I 
take into account the pitch fees Miss N had to pay of nearly £400 a month,  payable  for 
10 months of the year. I accept BPF says it doesnt  take into account these fees in its 
assessment of affordability. Thats a matter  for BPF. I cant tell BPF (or any lender) that 
its policies or procedures are wrong   thats  a commercial decision it is entitled  to make. 
But sometimes, the normal  application of a business standard policy or procedure leads 
to an unfair  outcome for a consumer. And thats  what I think  has happened here. Taking 
account of Miss Ns particular circumstances,  I dont think  BPF should have lent the 
money.
Ive thought about whether the fact that Miss N did manage to make two repayments 
and then repay the loan in full could demonstrate that the lending was affordable.  Shes 
told us she always intended  to repay  the loan in full in December  2017  because she 
knew she had a large sum of money  due to her. But I can see that she fell behind  with 
the pitch fees in the two months that she managed to make  the loan repayments.  And, 
whilst she did receive the lump sum and she did use it to repay the finance,  its possible 
she may have needed  some or all of that money for something else. And BPF didnt 
know that this was her intention, so it still needed to ensure she could afford to repay the 
loan when she applied  for it in September  2017. And I dont think she could.  So the fact 
that she repaid  it in full in December 2017  doesnt alter my conclusion.
Ref: DRN76122283If BPF had taken into account  Miss Ns correct income figure  and the pitch fees she was 
also committed to pay, I dont think it would have agreed to lend to her. So I find its fair 
and reasonable that BPF should refund the interest  that she paid. She paid BPF a total 
of £33,408.78 (made up of a deposit, two monthly payments and a final lump sum). The 
cash price of the caravan was £32,550 so I think its fair and reasonable that BPF pays  
Miss N the difference of £858.78. It should  also remove  the loan from Miss Ns credit 
file.
Miss N has explained  her financial and wider  circumstances  and its clear shes been  
upset by this experience.  I think she should  be compensated for the trouble and upset 
caused. Taking into account  that Miss N must take some  responsibility for whats 
happened here  she signed the paperwork which set out how much the monthly 
repayments would be  I think £150 is fair and reasonable.
BPF agreed  with my provisional decision.
Miss N responded  to say that she wanted more compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. She said, in summary, that:
The £150 compensation in the provisional decision will only cover the cost of her phone  
calls and postage,  but not the impact  that the loan had on her health  and wellbeing.
The salesperson put immense pressure on her and she was told she wouldnt have to 
pay a penalty  if she repaid  the loan early.  When she complained,  she had the trauma of 
being called a liar. She was compensated for this by the National Caravan  Council  
(NCC).
The salesperson deliberately gave BPF the wrong information.
She rarely uses the caravan because  the joy has been taken out of it. She wants  to sell 
it, but shell have to pay the site owners  15% of the sale price. In the meantime,  she 
struggles to meet the monthly expenses.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF has agreed with my provisional  decision and will refund Miss N the £858.78  she was 
charged in interest  and remove  the loan from Miss Ns credit file.
Ive considered carefully Miss Ns response  to my provisional decision and what  amount of 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset shes been  caused.
I dont underestimate  the distress  this has caused Miss N and I am sorry she feels  unable to 
enjoy her caravan.  But shes  told us a lot of her upset  was caused by the supplier and its 
salesperson. As I set out in my provisional  decision,  this decision is only about  the actions of 
BPF in deciding to lend to Miss N. The NCC investigated what  the supplier had, or hadnt, 
done and I cant  revisit  that or make  further comment. 
Overall, I think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN76122284My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance should:
1.Refund the interest Miss N paid under the terms of the agreement - £858.78.
2.Pay Miss N £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
3.Remove the loan from Miss Ns credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7612228