K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains on behalf of herself and her son, Master P that Santander UK plc 
(Santander) mis sold her financial products when she tried to open  a childs  account.   And  
about poor customer service .She would like £610 compensation.
background 
Ms W says in September  2018 she went into a Santander branch to open a childs  account. 
She said she was surprised she had to do this as other institutions allow such accounts to be 
opened online or by filling a form in at home.
She says she saw details  of the account online.  But says it wasnt clear she had to book an 
appointment in branch to open the account. So when she went  into the branch she was 
initially unable to open the account  as she didnt have an appointment. She says the staff in 
the branch were rude to her so she felt forced to log a complaint there and then. But she 
says she had no follow up to her complaint.
She says she was also not made  aware  in order to open a childs  account she had to have a 
Santander account herself.  She says if she had known this she wouldnt have pursued either 
account.
She says she subsequently  got a letter from Santander telling her the account she opened 
for herself  had a £5 monthly fee. And she needed to pay £500 each month into the account 
and to have two direct debits in place.
Ms W says she feels the accounts were  mis sold to her and Santanders customer  service  
was appalling.  She would like £200 compensation for the loss to her business in taking up 
two hours  of her time, £100 compensation for the time and effort to look elsewhere for a 
suitable account, £60 for loss of interest and £250 for stress  and inconvenience.  A total of 
£610.
Santander said it felt Ms Ws expectations were  unreasonable  in that she complained within  
a very short  time of being in branch.  Also  it was unreasonable for Ms W to go into a busy 
branch and to expect  to be dealt with immediately and to be able to open  an account without 
having an appointment booked to do so.
It said it made an exception to its own procedures to help Ms W by getting  the account  
applied for the same  day and opened four days later.  It noted  Ms W hadnt paid anything  in 
either account. If felt Ms W had suffered no financial loss and didnt feel it had done anything 
wrong.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that the childs  account  did need  to 
be opened in branch.   She felt Santander  had been  as helpful as possible in by passing its 
normal procedures to enable the application  to be submitted over the phone.
She also found that a criterion for opening the account was for Ms W herself to have an 
account with Santander. The account Ms W opened  was one which  charged £5 per month. 
She said if Ms W wanted to close the accounts she would have to visit a branch or call 
Santanders contact  centre.  Ms  W could  also downgrade her Santander account  if she 
wished to have  a non fee account. 
Ref: DRN75204422In conclusion she didnt  feel the products had been  mis sold or that Santanders customer  
service had been poor.
Santander accepted this view but Ms W didnt. She said when the account was advertised  
there was no mention  of having  to make an appointment  to open the account.  She said she 
had also made repeated  requests in writing to close her accounts to no avail.  She 
questioned why she had to go into a branch  or phone to close  an account.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said she felt the 
stipulations of the account terms would  have been displayed within the terms and conditions  
of the account  so Ms W should have been  aware  of these.  She said Santander had no 
record of Ms Ws signature on file which is why it couldnt accept  an account closure request 
in writing.
However our investigator then spoke with Santander and arranged  for Ms Ws accounts to 
be closed. Ms W thanked our investigator for this but asked if she would be getting any 
compensation for all the time taken.
Our investigator said she didnt feel she could recommend any compensation for Ms Ws 
time. But she did provide  confirmation that the accounts had been closed.
Ms W didnt  accept this. She asked  our investigator  to explain why she couldnt be 
compensated for her time. She said she ran her own businesses and the opportunity  cost of 
her time is very high. She felt she had to spend  an excessive amount of time on what  should 
have been a simple  matter.
Our investigator said she felt Santander  took reasonable  steps to assist  Ms W to open the 
accounts in waiving its own processes opening the childs account over the phone.  She 
didnt feel Santander  could have done more. She acknowledged the time that Ms W had 
spent on this matter  but said it wasnt something we could compensate for in itself. She 
acknowledged Ms W hadnt had a good  experience but said the accounts were  now closed  
another process overturned by Santander.
Ms W didnt  accept this and asked for a Final  Decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are two issues here for me to consider. Firstly the accounts  Ms W opened, if it 
was clear what Ms W had to do to open these and if there  is any evidence of mis selling. 
And secondly how Santander  dealt  with the problems that Ms W experienced.
Ms W has told us she didnt realise she had to open a Santander account for herself  in order  
to open a childs account. I can appreciate it must have been frustrating to realise she had to 
do this. But Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the childs account online  on the first 
summary page under eligibility it clearly states  that the trustee, who must have parental 
responsibility, has to have a Santander personal  account. So I think that information  was 
clearly available  for Ms W to see.
Ref: DRN75204423Ms W has said it wasnt made clear to her she needed to make  an appointment to open the 
account. I have  gone  through the account opening  process for the childs account myself. 
The online screen  makes  it clear that to open  an account  for a child this has to be done in 
branch. There is then the option to find a branch  and to book an appointment. I think  from 
this it seems to me, at the very least, the fact there is an appointments system in place is 
flagged up. And as Ms W has pointed out how valuable her time is I am surprised she didnt 
book an appointment.
I imagine if Ms W had gone to the branch at a less busy time, with no appointment, that she 
may well have been seen. I see no business  reason as to why that wouldnt have happened.  
Its unfortunate that she went  into a busy branch.
Ms W says she was surprised to find the account  she opened for herself had certain  terms 
attached to it  for example the account  had a monthly fee of £5, she had to make a £500 
per month deposit into the account and had to set up two direct  debits.
Santander has acknowledged in its phone calls that it didnt advise Ms W to open a specific  
account. As I understand it Ms W opened  her own Santander account online  whilst she was 
in branch and her ID documents were being  photocopied. By doing  so she accepted  the 
terms and conditions for the account.  I am inclined to agree with Santanders view here that 
given the situation at the time that Ms W may not have got around to reading  the account  
terms and conditions. 
I couldnt find any evidence in the phone  transcripts I read and the phone calls I listened to 
that Santander advised Ms W which account to open. Or that it read out any terms and 
conditions to her.
I think it might have  been helpful if, in the phone calls, Santander had advised Ms W of the 
fee and non fee account options available  to her. However given the situation  was fairly 
fraught with Ms W not happy, wanting to open her childs account there and then, and 
wanting to put in a complaint at the same  time I can understand  how this might not have 
been covered.
But ultimately Ms W seems to have opened the account herself online. So I think the onus 
was on her to make  herself  aware  of the terms and conditions she was agreeing  to. 
Santander did say Ms Ws could change her account to a non fee one  so there was an 
opportunity for Ms W to do this if she wanted to.
The final thing Ms W said she wasnt aware  of and doesnt feel is fair is that she had to either 
call the Santander  call centre or go into a branch to close her accounts.  Santander  has 
explained Ms W needed to do this as it didnt have a record of her signature on file so 
couldnt accept  a written  instruction. That doesnt  seem an unreasonable security precaution 
to me. Santander has now closed  Ms Ws accounts without the need for Ms W to call or to 
go into a branch which is not its usual procedure.
Looking at all of the information  I have  I cant reasonably conclude  that Santander mis sold 
financial products  to Ms W.
The second  part of Ms Ws complaint  is how Santander dealt  with her issues.
Ref: DRN75204424Ms W said she felt that Santander  ignored  her complaint. I can see that Ms W sent a 
complaint letter to Santander on 28 September 2018.  She sent in a complaint form to us 
dated 4 December 2018. Santander emailed Ms W to say it had tried to call her and wanted 
to talk to her  the email  was dated  9 January 2019. Santander then sent its final response 
letter dated  18 January 2018.
I havent seen  any evidence that Santander  acknowledged Ms Ws complaint letter and I 
dont know why that was. However  Santander  did respond within the timescale we expect 
when we contacted it.
I have considered Santanders  total response to Ms Ws issues   that is its actions as well as 
its response to her formal  complaint letter. I do feel it could have sent some  
acknowledgement of that letter. However in terms of its actions  I am not sure that it could 
have done much more.
It waived its usual process for opening  a childs account by taking Ms Ws instructions by 
phone on the day she went into branch  with no appointment.  And then waived its usual 
account closure procedure. 
I appreciate Ms W feels strongly she should be awarded some compensation.  And she has 
asked for compensation for a range of factors. She would like £200  for the loss to her 
business due to two hours  spent dealing with this matter. Ms W hasnt evidenced any actual 
loss that I could consider. And even  if she did I would  have  to be convinced  that Santander 
is somehow responsible for this loss  i.e. it made a mistake. But I dont believe Santander 
did make  any mistakes.  Also its unfortunate but it can take some time to resolve issues and 
we dont automatically award compensation for such time.
Ms W has then asked  for £100 compensation for the time taken to look elsewhere for a 
suitable account and £60 for loss of interest. But it was Ms Ws choice to look elsewhere. 
Santander set up the accounts  for Ms W but she chose not to use them. I appreciate  Ms W 
wasnt happy with the customer service but I havent  found Santanders customer service  to 
be poor. So I dont  feel its fair to expect Santander  to compensate  Ms W for time taken to 
look for an alternative account.
Finally Ms W has asked  for £250  compensation for stress and inconvenience. But I dont feel 
I can award this amount  as I feel Santander  did its best to help Ms W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7520442