K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000. 
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs D says that she feared her application  for a credit card would be refused if she didnt take PPI. 
She says at the time it was common knowledge that banks would refuse  credit  to those that didnt  
take PPI. I accept that Mrs D may have felt this way. But I can only look at what  happened  during 
this sale  and whether  I think  Barclays did enough  to make Mrs D aware the policy was optional  
and then got her agreement to it. And from what Ive seen I think  it did.
I say this having seen a copy of Mrs Ds postal  application form. I can see theres separate  section  
for PPI and Mrs D has ticked the box next to Yes, I do require Payment Protection  Insurance . She 
could have left the box blank if she hadnt wanted  it (which I note she has done for another  product  
on offer). There is nothing  on the form to indicate  she had to have the PPI to get the card.
It wouldnt be fair for me to hold Barclays accountable for an impression that Mrs D says she 
formed from general common  knowledge at the time. I think  Barclays did enough to make
Mrs D aware that she had a choice  about this policy and that she chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her (such 
as asking questions  about her circumstances  or any exiting cover she had).  But it did have to make 
sure Mrs D got the information  she needed so she could decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  her own employee benefits  and it looks 
like she still wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong, paying out on top of anything  she 
wouldve received  from her employer and for longer than she would have got her full rate of pay. I 
can see that Mrs D was working part-time when  she took out the policy,  but as shes told us it was 
for more than 16 hours a week, she would have still been able to benefit  from the policy. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable  for her. So overall,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. 
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because  in 2017, following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules about 
how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy 
 more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create  an 
Ref: DRN70128082unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right,  the FCA said that businesses should  
pay back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Barclays said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs D paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI for the time there 
was an unfair relationship.  It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate  Mrs D for 
the time they were out of pocket. 
Mrs D has said she should receive all the commission and profit share back because  she wasnt 
told that Barclays would receive any commission. But Barclays  has done what the rules it must 
follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Ds particular complaint and circumstances 
that means Barclays should do something different to put right the unfairness caused  by not telling 
them about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont think  there is. I think the 
offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling Barclays to do 
anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Barclays  should  also pay back to Mrs D any extra  interest she paid because  of 
that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs D the difference between  
what Mrs D owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mrs D 8%* simple  interest  if she 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs D any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7012808