K822xcomplaint
Mr As complaint against National Westminster Bank  Plc (Natwest)  concerns its treatment of 
him, and his business account, over a number of years.
background 
Mr A, trading  as B, held a business account with Natwest. He had concerns, and complaint 
points going back  to 2001,  but which he didnt bring  to Natwest until after 2015.
Natwest acknowledged some of the points  as correct, and apologised. But it felt the others  
either happened too long ago to be investigated, or that there wasnt  any evidence to uphold 
them. It didnt offer Mr A any compensation.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service,  asking us to look at everything,  going back  to 
2001, when he took out a business development loan with Natwest. Our Investigator 
explained why we couldnt look at everything, telling Mr A about our jurisdiction rules.  
He also said that on the complaint grounds  for which there was evidence,  and he felt could 
be upheld, Natwest should  pay Mr A £350  compensation. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with this, so an ombudsman issued  a provisional jurisdiction decision, in 
which he laid out clearly  which  complaint  grounds  we could consider, and those we couldnt 
 and why  referring to the rules  we operate under.
Natwest accepted  this decision, but Mr A didnt.  So a jurisdiction decision was then issued, 
confirming what the ombudsman had decided.
This allowed our Investigator to do another view on the remaining merits, taking into account 
further representations by Mr A. In this, he explained that he was still upholding the 
complaint on the administrative/service errors Natwest had made  with Mr A. Such as 
sending a confidential letter to the wrong address, not addressing  all of his complaint points 
originally, and failing to return his calls. 
He explained  that he still felt £350 was a fair sum of compensation for the errors  hed found  
Natwest had made.
Mr A still didnt  agree. He maintained he wanted  all of his original concerns looked  into. He 
said he believed our service was biased in favour  of the banks, and that as he didnt hold the 
power they did he was at a disadvantage.
As there was no agreement, the complaints now come to me for a final decision.  In reaching 
this, I have to make  it very clear to Mr A that the jurisdiction issues   which  are what 
complaint grounds  we can and cant look at  have  already been addressed very 
comprehensively and finally  by a fellow ombudsman in his provisional jurisdiction, and 
jurisdiction, decisions.  I understand Mr A doesnt agree with these,  but I wont be looking at 
these issues again. 
I can only consider the points that these decisions have already determined  our service can 
look at. And in doing so, I need to then decide  if I think the £350 thats been suggested, and 
which Natwests agreed to pay to Mr A as compensation  for its mistakes,  is fair and 
sufficient. 
Ref: DRN77172762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our Investigators done everything he can to assist Mr A in this 
complaint, and that his recommendation that Natwest pay £350 to settle matters  is fair and 
reasoned. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by this. He started this complaint with a long list of 
concerns, spanning  a period of over seventeen years.  So hes naturally  going  to feel 
disappointed that theyve not all been addressed. But Im satisfied weve  explained why 
there are certain grounds we simply cant look at  because theyve been  brought  too late 
and our rules dont allow us to  and why there are other complaint points where there  
simply isnt the evidence we need to uphold them.
Turning to the points I have  been able to consider, Im sorry Mr A feels hes had such a 
negative relationship with Natwest, and that he felt he couldnt complain sooner because  he 
felt that would further prejudice this relationship. 
The only issues I can assess for compensation are the more recent service-related ones, 
where Im satisfied on the evidence that Natwest didnt provide the level of service Mr A was 
entitled to. 
These are:-
The breach  of confidentiality when  Natwest sent a letter to the wrong address;
That Natwest failed to properly respond  in its final response  letter  to all of Mr As 
complaint points; and 
That Natwest failed to return Mr As calls.
I agree  that Natwest should have offered some compensation sooner for these failings, 
which its agreed took place. But now that its agreed to pay £350,  as suggested by our 
Investigator, I think thats a fair and sufficient sum to reflect  the impact of these  on Mr A. 
Mr A says he wants more, but hasnt  said how much. But in any event I think  the £350  is 
enough, so I wont  be asking Natwest to increase it. 
Ref: DRN77172763my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr A compensation of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, trading as B, 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717276