K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how Haven  Insurance Company Limited  dealt with his claim against
his taxi insurance policy following the theft of his car.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  March 2019, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and what  
Haven should  do to put matters right. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments or evidence. Both Mr H and Haven  said that they accept my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have agreed with my provisional decision,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached.  I find that there were significant delays in Haven repairing 
Mr Hs car. To put matters right, Haven should compensate  Mr H at the rate of £10 a day for 
his loss of use of the car for the period it delayed repairing  it  say, 1 October 2018 to 
12 December 2018. It should also pay him compensation of £200  in relation to his 
inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I now require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay
Mr H:
1. Compensation  for loss of use of his car from 1 October 2018 to 12 December 2018
inclusive, at the daily rate of £10.
2. Compensation  of £200 in relation to his inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77252832extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited dealt with his claim  against his taxi 
insurance policy following the theft of his car.
background
On 3 August 2018,  Mr Hs car was stolen from outside his home following a burglary  in which his car 
key was stolen. He made a claim  against his taxi insurance policy. Haven initially proceeded on the 
basis that the car was a total loss. On 5 September 2018, the police recovered Mr Hs car.
Havens engineer  inspected Mr Hs car on 14 September 2018. He said that the car was repairable 
and should be moved to Havens authorised repairer.  On 14 September  2018, Haven  instructed its 
authorised repairers. There was some difficulty about  the absence of the car key. I understand that 
Mr H sent in a spare key. It appears  that Havens  first authorised repairers couldnt  complete  the 
work and the second authorised repairers didnt  receive Mr Hs car until 23 October  2018. Mr H tells 
us that he got his car back on 13
December 2018.
Mr H is a part time driver for private  hire. He says that he couldnt work  and wasnt able to look after 
his family. He wants compensation  for his loss of earnings and reimbursement  of his monthly  
premium.
Our investigator said that Mr Hs policy  didnt  provide him with a replacement car. He said that there  
were significant delays  in repairing Mr Hs car. The investigator said that Haven should pay Mr H 
compensation of £300 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Haven accepted the investigators recommendation  but Mr H didnt. As there was no
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven isnt responsible for all of the time Mr H was without his car. For just over a month,  Mr Hs 
car was stolen and unrecovered. But after the police found Mr Hs car, there was significant  delay 
in Havens repairs of the car. There was a delay of over five weeks in getting Mr Hs car to the 
authorised repairer and further delay of over seven  weeks  before Mr H got his car back.
Based on what Ive seen, there was no good reason  for the delay  after the police found
Mr Hs car. I understand  that there was some initial  difficult about  the absence of a key. That cant be 
unusual where stolen cars are recovered. Mr H says that he sent in a spare  key in any event. It 
appears that some of the delay was because the first repairer Haven instructed couldnt do the repair 
but its not clear  to me why that was the case.
Ref: DRN77252833Ive seen from Havens case notes and engineer report that it expected the repairs to take 
somewhere between  one and two days. Considering everything, I think  Mr H could reasonably 
have expected  to have his repaired car back by, say, the end of September
2018. He didnt get it back until mid December 2018.
Mr Hs policy doest  require Haven to provide  him with a hire car during repairs. So, I dont think that 
Haven was at fault in failing to provide one.
Mr H says he wants Haven to compensate him for the monthly  premiums he paid while he couldnt  
drive his car. Mr H was obliged to pay the premium, whether or not he could drive his car. And the 
terms of the policy provide  that the whole premium is due if Haven  has paid a claim. I dont think its 
appropriate to direct Haven  to refund  his monthly premiums.
Mr H says that, at the relevant time, he had a part time job and in July 2018,  hed started part time, 
private hire driving.  Mr Hs policy excludes cover for consequential  losses,  including loss of profit  and 
hire charges. Thats not necessarily the end of the matter, as I could consider whether its fair and 
reasonable for Haven to rely on that term of the policy in this case. But thats not required  here, as 
Mr H hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence about his loss of earnings. Thats partly 
because hed only started private  hire driving  for a month before his car was stolen. Mr H hasnt 
shown that hes suffered any loss of earnings.
However, I think that Haven should compensate  Mr H for the loss of use of his car for the period it 
delayed in repairing it  say, 1 October 2018 to 12 December 2018 inclusive. Mr H says he looks 
after a large family and couldnt  do so without his car. Our usual approach in circumstances like the 
one here is to award  compensation  for loss of use at the rate of £10 a day. I think  thats fair.
In addition,  I think that Havens delays  in dealing  with the repairs caused Mr H 
inconvenience. Haven  didnt keep him sufficiently updated about  what  was going  on. 
Considering everything, I think fair compensation for that is £200.
my provisional  decision
I intend to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and require Haven Insurance  Company Limited to pay
Mr H:
1.Compensation for loss of use of his car from 1 October 2018 to 12 December  2018 
inclusive, at the daily rate of £10.
2.Compensation of £200 in relation  to his inconvenience.
Ref: DRN7725283