K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about the service he received from his financial adviser whilst he was 
consolidating his various pensions in 2017 and 2018. He says the consolidation took far too 
long to complete.  He is also unhappy that his entire  pension was mistakenly  paid to him in 
April 2018. 
Mr R first dealt with his adviser in 2015.  The adviser  was working for a different firm at this 
point. Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Advisers subsequently purchased that firm and it has 
since rebranded as Quilter Private Client Advisers. Its an appointed representative of Quilter  
Financial Services Ltd (formerly Intrinsic) which is the entity that is responsible for this 
complaint. For ease, I will be referring to Quilter  in my decision.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr R was looking to consolidate his various pensions,  take his tax-free  cash 
entitlement and then draw from his remaining funds as and when he needed  to. In May 
2017, he signed a letter of authority in order to allow Quilter  to investigate his pension 
arrangements. He had five pensions; four with Royal London and one with Legal & General.  
Quilter produced an advice report in November which recommended Mr R transfer three  of 
his Royal  London  pensions, and his Legal  & General pension, to Old Mutual Wealths 
Collective Retirement Account (a drawdown-type policy) with a view to taking a tax-free  lump  
sum and investing  the residual amount in a portfolio managed  by Old Mutual Investment 
Management Limited. Mr Rs other  Royal London pension  included a valuable  guaranteed 
annuity rate (GAR) so Quilter recommended Mr R didnt transfer this but instead  take the 
tax-free cash from this pension and use the residual funds to purchase an annuity at the 
guaranteed rate. Mr R accepted Quilters advice.  
It looks like the consolidation took place in early  January 2018 with Mr R receiving his tax-
free cash  in two payments on 17 January and 29 January.  In April 2018, Old Mutual  
mistakenly paid Mr R the remaining funds from his pension. Quilter accepted responsibility 
for the mistake. It said it had ticked an incorrect box on one of Mr Rs application forms. 
When the mistake was identified, Mr R repaid Old Mutual the amount he had been  
incorrectly sent and his funds were reinvested. Quilter  offered to pay compensation of 
£2,343 to Mr R to account for the unit price of his funds  increasing during the period theyd 
been uninvested. It reduced this figure  to £1,874  to account for tax. It also offered to pay 
compensation of £400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr R didnt think Quilter  had done  enough.  A tax form completed for Mr R showed him 
paying a significant amount of tax as a result of the mistaken pension payment. Mr R says 
this caused him considerable concern and prompted fears that his future  tax position may 
have been compromised as a result. Quilters  mistake also led Mr R to question the time it 
had taken to consolidate his pensions.  In Mr Rs view the consolidation should have been 
completed sometime in 2016  given he first started  working with his adviser  on this process 
back in 2015.  He also didnt think £400  for distress  and inconvenience went  far enough.
Ref: DRN79160112In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that Quilter did delay the consolidation. I concluded 
the cumulative  length of the delay caused  by Quilter was 140 days although I also noted this 
was an estimate. I used the 140 days figure  in my proposed compensation. With regards to 
the incorrect payment  of funds in April 2018,  I was satisfied  Quilter had taken the correct  
approach in putting things  right for Mr R. I also thought Quilters  offer of £400 for distress 
and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable. 
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision. Mr R accepted my 
findings but made one comment on my proposed compensation, which I address below.  
Quilter didnt provide  me with any further substantive evidence or comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings  especially as neither party  has provided  me with any further  
substantive evidence and arguments in response to my provisional decision. I therefore  
uphold this complaint and direct Quilter to pay compensation to Mr R in line with the 
approach detailed below.
fair compensation
Quilter should take the following steps to put things right for Mr R. Where applicable, Quilter 
should assume a tax rate of 20% for Mr R. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
award.
Delay in taking benefits from the pension  with the GAR
If it hadnt been for Quilters delays, Mr R would have received a tax-free lump sum payment 
140 days earlier than he did. Therefore, to compensate Mr R for the delay in receiving his 
tax-free cash, Quilter  should pay Mr R interest on his tax-free cash at a rate of 8% simple 
per year for 140 days.
In addition, to compensate  Mr R for the delay  in arranging the annuity, Quilter should  do the 
following:
past losses
Pay Mr R the difference  between  the net annuity  payments he would have received had he 
taken his annuity 140 days earlier and what he actually received each month, rolled up to the 
date of settlement  together with 8% per year simple interest from the date each payment 
would have been made.
future losses
A = The notional gross pension  per year which Mr R would have been receiving if he had 
taken it 140 days earlier;
B = The actual gross pension per year Mr R is currently  receiving;
C = Future gross loss per year = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres  a future  gain and 
no compensation is payable;
Ref: DRN79160113D = Quilter must  work out what  it would  cost to replace any lost income as worked out in C. 
It will need to refer to published annuity rate tables and get a quote from a competitive 
provider to do this;
E = The purchase  price  of the annuity found  in D is Mr Rs gross  future  loss. This should be 
paid directly to him as a lump sum after making  a notional reduction to allow  for income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid at Mr Rs assumed rate of 20%.
Delay in receiving tax free cash from consolidated  pensions
If it hadnt been for Quilters delays, Mr R would have received his tax-free cash 140 days 
earlier than he did. Therefore, to compensate Mr R for the delay in receiving his tax-free  
cash, Quilter should pay Mr R interest on his tax-free cash  at a rate of 8% simple  per year 
for 140 days.
Residual funds left in Collective Retirement Account
Quilter should compare the actual value of Mr Rs Collective Retirement Account to its 
notional value had it been set up 140 days earlier.  This will require Quilter to establish the 
earlier notional transfer values of the personal pension plans transferred to the Collective 
Retirement Account.
A = The notional transfer value of the Collective Retirement Account at the date of 
calculation, assuming that Mr R would have  been invested in the same  portfolio but switched 
his personal pensions to it 140 days earlier;
B = The actual transfer value of the current plan at the same  date of calculation;
C = A  B, representing  the loss to the date of calculation. If this is negative, there  has been 
a gain and Quilter doesnt need to do anything further for this element of Mr Rs 
compensation. 
D = Interest on C from the date of calculation  to the date of settlement at 8% simple  per 
year. 
Compensation of C + D should be paid into Mr Rs Collective Retirement Account less any 
tax relief the provider has confirmed  will apply. If this isnt possible or has protection  or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a 
deduction for his marginal  rate of income tax.
Incorrect payment  of funds in April 2018
If it hasnt  already done so, Quilter should pay Mr R the £1,874 it has previously offered. 
 
Distress and Inconvenience
If it hasnt  already done so, Quilter should pay Mr R £400 for the distress  and inconvenience 
it caused.
Ref: DRN79160114Payment of compensation
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr R says he wants  his payment to not be reduced  
by tax. He says his accountant will sort out any tax liability. 
First, its worth pointing  out that my approach to compensation is to put Mr R back  in the 
position he would have been in but for Quilters actions. This may mean  some  of his 
compensation is paid into his pension  rather than direct to Mr R. I outlined where this might  
apply in my provisional  decision  and I see no persuasive reason to change my approach. 
Second, with regards  to Mr Rs tax position,  I should  point  out that Mr Rs compensation 
(other than interest payments) is exempt  from income tax. So the tax adjustment  is to avoid 
Mr R being over-compensated; that is, receiving a payment that he doesnt have to pay tax 
on (other than the interest  payments)  but would otherwise have paid tax on if there  hadnt  
been a mistake on the businesss  part and he had received payment as retirement  income. 
So I need to make the tax adjustment before compensation is paid. Ive done  this by 
considering Mr Rs relevant past, and likely future, tax position.  Quilter recorded Mr Rs 
financial circumstances in some  detail during its advice  process.  And, having reviewed these 
submissions once again, Im satisfied  that, where applicable, its fair and reasonable to base 
compensation on Mr R being  a basic rate tax payer.  It means I see no reason to change the 
approach I outlined in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint.  Quilter  Financial Services Ltd 
must pay Mr R compensation  in line with the approach outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79160115COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr R has complained  about  the service he received from his financial adviser whilst he was consolidating his 
various pensions. He says the consolidation  took far too long to complete. He is also unhappy that his entire 
pension was mistakenly paid to him in April 2018. 
Mr R first dealt  with his adviser in 2015. The adviser was working for a different firm at this point. Old Mutual 
Wealth Private Client Advisers  subsequently purchased  that firm and it has since rebranded  as Quilter Private  
Client Advisers  Limited.  Its an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd (formerly Intrinsic) 
which is the entity that is responsible  for this complaint. For ease, I will be referring to Quilter in my decision.
background
Mr R was looking  to consolidate his pensions, take his tax-free cash entitlement  and then draw from his 
consolidated pension  as and when he needed  to. He wanted the remainder of his pension to be invested in a 
growth fund. 
On 12 May 2017, Mr R signed a letter of authority in order to allow Quilter to investigate his pension 
arrangements. He had five pensions;  four with Royal  London and one with Legal  & General  (L&G). Information 
from L&G was sent to Quilter later in May.  Information from Royal London  wasnt sent until August.  An advice 
report was drawn up in November which  recommended Mr R transfer three of his Royal London  pensions, and 
his L&G pension, to Old Mutual Wealths Collective Retirement  Account (a drawdown-type policy) with a view to 
taking a tax-free lump sum and investing the residual  in a moderate risk portfolio  managed  by Old Mutual 
Investment Management Limited. Mr Rs other  Royal London pension  included  a valuable guaranteed  annuity 
rate (GAR)  so Quilter recommended Mr R didnt transfer  this but instead take the tax-free cash from this pension 
and use the residual funds to purchase an annuity at the guaranteed rate. Mr R accepted  Quilters  advice.  
It looks like the consolidation took place  in early January 2018 with Mr R receiving his tax-free cash  in two 
payments on 17 January and 29 January. In April 2018, Old Mutual paid Mr R the remaining funds from his 
pension. Quilter has accepted that this was a mistake on its part. It said it had ticked an incorrect box on one of 
Mr Rs application forms. 
When the mistake was identified,  Mr R repaid Old Mutual the amount he had been  incorrectly  sent and his funds 
were reinvested. Quilter offered  to pay Mr R compensation  because the unit price  of his funds had increased in 
the interim meaning  his reinvested funds bought back fewer  units than he held previously. The proposed 
compensation was £2,343 which accounted for the increase in unit price  between  10 April 2018 (the date funds 
were disinvested) and 19 June 2018 (the date funds were reinvested). Quilter reduced  this figure to £1,874 
because it proposed paying  the compensation direct to Mr R so the reduction reflected the tax Mr R would have 
paid if the amount had stayed  invested and he withdrew the funds at a later date as taxable pension income. 
Quilter also offered to pay 
Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Quilter then issued its final response on Mr Rs complaint,  
in which it offered to pay him £2,343 (with no mention  of the tax deduction) and £400 for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Mr R didnt  think  Quilter  had done enough. A tax form that Quilter had completed showed Mr R paying a 
significant amount of tax as a result  of Quilters  mistake  which caused Mr R stress and prompted concerns  that 
his future tax position  may have  been  compromised  as a result. Quilters mistake also led Mr R to question the 
time it had taken to consolidate his pensions.  In Mr Rs view the starting point in any compensation calculation 
should have  been early 2016,  which is 200 days  after he first started the process, rather than the April 2018 date 
used by Quilter. He is also unsure about the approach Quilter took to rectify  the payment of pension monies in 
April 2018. And Mr R doesnt  think Quilters offer for distress and inconvenience was enough  given  all the above 
and the time he has put into the matter. 
An adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint. He thought there  were significant delays in consolidating  
Mr Rs four pensions and in him taking  benefits from the pension with the GAR.  He thought Quilter should 
compensate Mr R for these delays. Quilter disagreed.  It said that Mr R was difficult  to get hold of for long periods 
and this is the reason for the time everything took. It asked  for an ombudsman to decide  on the case.
Ref: DRN79160116my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
A useful starting  point  here is a timeline of key events:
On 4 May 2017, Quilter wrote  to Mr R enclosing  a letter of authority for Mr R to sign to allow  it to obtain 
information about his pension  policies. He signed  and returned the letter of authority on 12 May.
On 17 May Quilter  requested  information from L&G about Mr Rs pension. L&G responded  on 22 May.  
However, it doesnt  look like Quilter requested the same information  from Royal  London  theres no record 
on file of a request  being made and in August Royal London provided  the necessary information in 
response to what it called a recent request from Quilter.
On the morning  of 10 October, Mr R emailed Quilter for an update on what was happening. Mr R was 
overseas at the time. Quilter responded a few minutes later saying everything is now in and a telephone 
call for later that day (after  Mr R had flown back home)  was arranged.  On the same day an attitude to risk 
report was produced and it looks like an authority to proceed form was discussed as well.
The authority  to proceed form was signed  by Mr R on 14 October. This confirmed Mr Rs agreement with 
Quilters services  and terms of business, which were said to have been  provided  to Mr R on 10 October.
Pension projections, dated  13, 14 and 24 November,  were  produced along with a fact-find  (which  looks to 
have been printed, or modified,  on 8, 24 and 28 November). 
On 22 November, a Pension Planning  Report was produced which  outlined Quilters  recommendations. A 
Retirement Options  Report, dated 24 November,  was also produced.
The Pension  Planning Report referenced a meeting between  the parties on 10 October,  as does the fact-
find. The meeting  isnt likely to have  happened on a face-to-face basis given Mr R was returning  from a trip 
overseas at the time (see above) although it could be referring  to the phone conversation that the parties 
were looking to arrange  for later that day. Either way, its not critical to the outcome of the complaint.
It looks like a meeting did take place on 6 December.  Quilter says the report was presented on that day and 
this seems  plausible  given a series  of forms were  signed  by Mr R and his adviser to start the transfer 
process (application forms for the Collective  Retirement  Account and Royal  Londons financial advice 
confirmation form for example).  Quilter sent Mr R a letter, dated the same day, saying  the application to Old 
Mutual Wealth had been  sent. 
On 11 January 2018,  Quilter  sent Royal  London a confirmation of financial advice form for one of Mr Rs 
policies.
On 16 January 2018,  Quilter  sent Mr R an application  pack for him to complete in order  to start receiving 
benefits from the pension with the GAR.
On 17 January, Mr R received a payment of £2,645.90 from Old Mutual Life. He received  a payment from 
the same  source  on 29 January for £16,568.40.  I havent  been provided with comprehensive records  from 
either party to be sure what these payments were. But their combined total is £19,241.30 which  is very 
close to the tax-free cash Quilter estimated Mr R would be receiving  from his combined pensions (excluding 
the pension with the GAR) so I will proceed on that basis   that is, Mr R received his tax-free cash  from his 
consolidated pensions in January 2018.  The fact that there were  two payments  likely reflects the delay in 
sending Royal London the confirmation of financial advice form in relation  to one of Mr Rs policies.
On 18 January, Quilter sent Mr R an update  on what was happening which referenced L&G having 
requested identification  from Mr R on 2 January.
On 4 April,  Mr R received a payment of £249  from Old Mutual Life. Its not clear what  this was for. If either 
party has information  on this, and its material to the outcome of the complaint, they can forward details in 
response to this provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN79160117On 25 April, Mr R was mistakenly  sent payment  of £32,102  by Old Mutual Life. On a tax form provided by 
Mr R, but completed  by Old Mutual, it says a total of £55,377 was paid with a tax deduction of £23,275.  
Taking the tax off the £55,377 figure gets us to the £32,102  Mr R actually received in his bank  account.
Mr R returned the £32,102 on 17 May (in two tranches).  
Between May and September, Mr R corresponded with Quilter about rectifying its mistake. Quilters final 
response on the matter was dated 26 September 2018 although its overall approach  to rectifying the 
mistake had been outlined to Mr R in earlier emails.
Delays in consolidation
A cursory glance at the above timeline shows  not much seems to have happened between Mr R signing his letter 
of authority in May 2017  and Royal London providing  information on Mr Rs pensions in August 2017 other than a 
request to, and response from, L&G. Similarly,  not much seems  to have happened between the receipt of 
information from Royal  London  in August and Mr Rs chaser to Quilter on 10 October. There then followed a flurry 
of activity, including the production of an attitude-to-risk  report  (10 October),  the signing of an authority to 
proceed form (14 October), a fact find and pension projections (dated at various points throughout November), 
the Pensions  Planning  Report (22 November), the signing  of paperwork to proceed  with the consolidation (6 
December), the forwarding on of paperwork to take the pension with the GAR (16 January) and the payment of 
tax-free cash  from Old Mutual to Mr R in January 2018. So from October 2017 onwards there was considerable  
activity, but getting to that point seems to have  taken a considerable amount of time.
I wouldnt automatically take the view that the adviser  Quilter   would  be responsible  for all delays in a process 
such as this given the involvement of other parties.  In this case, Im aware of at least  five other  parties  Royal 
London, L&G, Old Mutual Wealth, Old Mutual Investment  Management Limited and Mr R himself. And I think the 
consolidation of a number  of pensions, and the paperwork  that it requires, means some delays are to be 
expected. However, it seems  to me that there  were quite significant delays here and that they were caused by 
Quilter. 
I say this because the delay  between May and August looks  to have been caused by Quilter not requesting  
information from Royal  London  as soon as it could  have done in May. It looks like it waited until August to request  
this information. Its possible that this isnt the case and that it requested the information much earlier  after all, it 
did request information from L&G in May. But Quilter hasnt provided  any information to show  it did contact Royal 
London earlier and the response from Royal  London in August  thanks Quilter for its recent request. So the 
evidence points to a delay on Quilters part. And even if Quilter had requested the information from Royal  London 
in May, I would have still expected it to have chased it up, especially given the prompt  response from L&G.
With regards to the delay  between August  and October, its not clear to me what  if anything  Quilter  was doing 
in this period. Again, I think its important to point out that advising on the consolidation  of a number of pensions 
can take time. So Ive kept this in mind. However, it seems to me that it was only Mr Rs intervention on 10 
October that galvanised Quilter into action. Even then, it still took over a month to produce  an advice report  even 
though Quilter was satisfied that everything it needed was already in.   
I recognise Quilter says Mr R caused at least  some  of the delays here.  It says Mr R was often difficult  to get hold 
of and elusive. But it hasnt actually pointed to any specific delays or blockages that Mr R caused. It hasnt 
provided any record of it telephoning  (or attempting to telephone) Mr R in this period or any evidence of it chasing 
Mr R by email. And it hasnt  provided any evidence  of it needing significant extra information from either Royal 
London or L&G in this period either,  or of those organisations not responding to its requests. So Quilters  
comments dont change my mind.
Quantifying the extent of the delay isnt an exact science.  But Im satisfied  with the approach taken by our 
adjudicator. He assumed Quilter should have received  information on Mr Rs Royal London policies by the end of 
May. This seems reasonable given another provider  L&G  did just that. Mr R could then have  been sent his 
authority to proceed  form in the two weeks that followed   so by 
14 June rather  than 10 October. This is a difference of 118 days. The adjudicator also found Quilter had the 
information it needed to complete the Pension Planning Report from 10 October onwards. Again,  this seems 
reasonable given Quilters  email to Mr R on 10 October where it said everything  is now in. The adjudicator 
therefore thought the Pension  Planning Report could have  been completed  by the end of the month. I dont think  
20 days is a particularly short period  of time to have turned such a report  around. Therefore, given  the report  
wasnt completed until 22 November, this adds  another 22 days to the delays caused by Quilter, bringing the 
cumulative total to 140 days.  
Mr Rs pension  with a GAR
Ref: DRN79160118The same considerations as above apply  for Mr Rs pension with a GAR.  The same process was followed  
Royal London sent information  about the policy  in August 2017, the recommendation  to take the GAR was 
included in the Pension  Planning Report in November and the paperwork to proceed was completed thereafter 
(with the application pack sent to Mr R to complete on 16 January  2018). There doesnt  appear to be any good  
reason why it took from May until early the following year for Mr R to take an annuity with his existing  pension 
provider. As such I think compensation should also reflect  the delays in this transaction as well. 
Final thoughts on the delays
Given the above, Im satisfied there were delays  here which  were caused by Quilter. Putting  a number on the 
cumulative delay  isnt straightforward but, as outlined above, I think 140 days is a fair and reasonable estimate. It 
means Mr R should have, but didnt, have  use of his tax-free cash in this period. It means he could have been  
receiving his GAR earlier. And it also means his residual  funds  could have been invested  in his new portfolio 
earlier. My proposed  compensation takes all this into account.  That said,  I recognise  its possible some  of the 
delays could have  been to Mr Rs benefit (for example, he may have benefited from not being invested in his new 
portfolio for a period depending on how investment markets performed). My proposed  compensation allows  for 
this as well.
Mr R has complained  about  the total length  of time his consolidation  took, including the period  prior to 2017 when 
he was a client of the advisers previous firm. Its the reason why he said to Quilter that the start  date for any 
compensation should be 2016.
I take on board Mr Rs point  that he may have been overlooked  in the period  around  2016 whilst the takeover of 
his advisers  firm was going through.  However, Quilter says it hasnt got access  to these earlier client records.  
And Mr R says his email  account from that time,  which  would have provided an audit  trail of sorts, was 
discontinued, and records deleted, by the email provider in May 2017. Similarly, landline telephone records have 
also been lost when Mr R moved  home. So there really is very little to go on here  certainly not enough to 
compile a chronology of events along the lines of the one outlined  above.  As such, I dont feel I can fairly say Mr 
R should be compensated for what happened prior to 2017.   
The incorrect  payment of funds in April 2018
With regards to the incorrect payment of funds  in April 2018, Im satisfied Quilter has taken the correct approach. 
As a result of its mistake 24,005 units  were incorrectly  disinvested  on 10 April. This equated to £55,377.  The 
proceeds were paid to Mr R after tax of £23,275 had been taken off according  to a tax form Old Mutual 
completed. This meant Mr R was paid £32,102, which  he received  on 25 April. Mr R repaid  the £32,102 on 17 
May which was then reinvested on 19 June. Quilter has said 23,031 units were repurchased which isnt far short 
of the number of units Mr R originally had. So it looks like the tax payment  was corrected  for. 
The small decrease in the number of units that were repurchased was because the unit price of 
Mr Rs fund increased in the period after the money was paid out, meaning Mr Rs reinstated  funds purchased 
fewer units  than previously. This is what Quilter attempted to compensate for. It calculated  Mr R should be 
compensated for the 974 missing units  (24,005 less 23,031). The unit price of the units  on 19 June was £2.4045. 
So buying these extra units would have  cost £2,343 (974 multiplied by £2.4045) which is the amount Quilter 
offered to Mr R. Im satisfied with Quilters approach. 
This just leaves  two outstanding  issues. The first is Quilters final response letter which proposed compensation 
of £2,343  whereas previously it had offered  £1,874. Both figures follow the same approach with the lower amount 
just being a tax-adjusted version of the higher  amount. Quilter originally applied the tax adjustment  because  Mr R 
would (ultimately) have paid income tax on the funds had they stayed invested. It looks like it was an oversight  on 
Quilters part that it didnt mention the tax adjustment in its final response letter. However, as our approach is to 
account for tax in a similar way, Im satisfied that £1,874  is the correct figure to use here. Therefore, if this 
amount hasnt  already been  paid, it should now be paid to Mr R in addition  to the compensation  for the delays in 
the consolidation process.
The second issue relates to Mr Rs future tax position. Hes concerned that his future tax will be impacted by the 
large amount  of income he was erroneously paid in April 2018. As mentioned above, it looks like the immediate 
tax charge  (the £23,275 that showed up on the tax statement) has been  corrected. However, Im not in a position  
to assess Mr Rs future tax position. I see no reason why it will be affected by what has happened. However, I 
cant be sure of this. And given Quilter chose  not to investigate  this issue (and instead put the onus back  on Mr R 
to seek  tax advice),  I dont propose to make a finding on Mr Rs future tax position in this decision. If, in future 
years, Mr R finds that he has paid too much tax and this stems from Quilters failure in April 2018, then he can 
Ref: DRN79160119complain to Quilter in the usual  way about this. Mr R will be able to refer that complaint on to us. It will be treated 
by us as a new, separate, complaint  one that hasnt been considered previously.  
Other issues
I recognise Quilter says Mr R hadnt complained about delays in the consolidation  of his pensions until the issue 
with the incorrect payment of funds  in April 2018  became apparent. It says Mr R had, in fact, been upbeat about 
how Quilter  had handled  this issue. However, I think its perfectly reasonable for significant errors   such  as the 
April 2018 error  to prompt a wider rethink on a customers  part about what happened previously and whether 
everything really had been  up to standard.  Besides, the fact is Mr R has expressed dissatisfaction with the delays  
in the consolidation of his pensions and its therefore incumbent  on me to address that.  
  
For the avoidance of doubt, I should also point  out that I havent looked  at, and I make  no comment on, the 
suitability of the advice given  to Mr R. If Mr R has concerns about the advice, he will have to raise that as a 
separate complaint detailing exactly why he thinks Quilters advice was unsuitable.
Fair compensation
My provisional  decision is to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. If I do uphold  his complaint,  I will be asking Quilter to take 
the following steps to put things right. Where  applicable,  Quilter  should assume a tax rate of 20% for Mr R. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest award.
Delay in taking benefits  from the pension with the GAR
If it hadnt been for Quilters  delays, Mr R would have  received a tax-free lump  sum payment 140 days  earlier  
than he did. Therefore,  to compensate Mr R for the delay in receiving his tax-free cash,  Quilter should pay Mr R 
interest on his tax-free cash of 8% simple for 140 days.
In addition, to compensate Mr R for the delay in arranging  the annuity,  Quilter should do the following:
past losses
Pay Mr R the difference between the net annuity payments  he would  have received had he taken his annuity  140 
days earlier and what  he actually received  each month,  rolled  up to the date of settlement together  with 8% per 
year simple interest from the date each  payment would have been made.
future losses
A = The notional gross  pension per year which Mr R would have been receiving if he had taken it 140 days  
earlier;
B = The actual  gross pension per year Mr R is currently  receiving;
C = Future gross  loss per year = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres a future gain and no compensation is 
payable;
D = Quilter must work out what it would cost to replace any lost income as worked out in C. It will need to refer to 
published annuity rate tables and get a quote from a competitive  provider to do this;
E = The purchase price  of the annuity found in D is Mr Rs gross future  loss. This should be paid directly to him 
as a lump sum after making a notional  reduction  to allow  for income tax that would  otherwise have been paid at 
Mr Rs assumed rate of 20%.
Delay in receiving  tax free cash from consolidated pensions
If it hadnt been for Quilters  delays, Mr R would have  received his tax-free cash  140 days earlier than he did. 
Therefore, to compensate Mr R for the delay in receiving  his tax-free cash,  Quilter should pay Mr R interest on 
his tax-free cash of 8% simple  for 140 days.
Residual funds  left in Collective  Retirement  Account
Quilter should compare the actual value  of Mr Rs Collective Retirement Account to its notional value had it been 
set up 140 days earlier. This will require Quilter to establish  the earlier notional transfer  values of the personal 
pension plans transferred  to the Collective Retirement  Account.
Ref: DRN791601110A = The notional transfer value of the Collective Retirement  Account at the date of calculation, assuming  that Mr 
R would have been invested in the same portfolio but switched his personal  pensions to it 140 days  earlier;
B = The actual  transfer value of the current plan at the same date of calculation;
C = A  B, representing  the loss to the date of calculation. If this is negative, there has been a gain and Quilter 
doesnt need to do anything further for this element of Mr Rs compensation. 
D = Interest on C from the date of calculation to the date of settlement at 8% simple.  
Compensation of C + D should be paid into Mr Rs Collective Retirement Account less any tax relief  the provider  
has confirmed will apply. If this isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly 
to Mr R as a lump sum after making a deduction for his marginal rate of income tax.
Incorrect payment of funds in April 2018
If it hasnt  already  done so, Quilter  should pay Mr R the £1,874 it has previously offered.  
 
Distress and Inconvenience
Its clear to me that Mr R did suffer distress  and inconvenience  here. Mistakenly being sent a large lump sum 
from his pension  and the tax charge that apparently resulted  would  have been stressful. And having to deal 
with the repercussions of that mistake would have been frustrating. So I think  an award for distress and 
inconvenience is warranted. 
In its 26 September 2018 final response letter, Quilter  offered  £400. I think this is reasonable. Our awards  for 
distress and inconvenience  tend to be relatively modest and our role isnt to punish businesses. We wouldnt 
ordinarily compensate individuals for the time they spent  complaining or referring their complaint to us either. 
Therefore, whilst I dont wish to downplay what Mr R went through, Im satisfied that Quilters offer is in line with 
what we would normally  award in situations such as this. 
Therefore, if it hasnt already done so, Quilter  should pay Mr R £400  for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Other issues 
I also note that Mr R has pointed to a number of smaller mistakes on Quilters part  for instance, he had to 
change his date of birth on a letter of authority and Quilters  complaint  response was inaccurate, contained 
contradictions and didnt include a leaflet  about the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  
Any mistakes or errors are clearly disappointing. But I dont think I can reasonably  say these smaller errors 
caused Mr R a financial loss, which is my key consideration here. Im satisfied any financial losses are accounted 
for in my proposed compensation above. And whilst I recognise  Quilters errors  would have played into Mr Rs 
distress and inconvenience,  Im satisfied  the award Ive made for this  outlined above  is fair and reasonable. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons given above,  and subject to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I intend to uphold 
this complaint.  
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Quilter Financial Services  Ltd to calculate and pay compensation as 
set out above.
Ref: DRN7916011