K820x#14complaint
S a charity,  complains that Clydesdale Bank  Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank twice declined  
its application for a business account and hasnt  explained why. 
S is represented in its complaint by Mr M.
background
In January 2019 S applied  for a business account  with Yorkshire  Bank on two occasions. 
Mr M said S wanted to open current accounts with Yorkshire Bank because it offered more 
favourable terms for charities than its current banking facility.  
Both applications were  declined  without explanation.  
Unhappy, Mr M complained to the bank. Yorkshire Bank declined to uphold the complaint 
explaining
when a customer applies to open  a new account  many factors  are taken into 
consideration to determine if the facility  can be offered or not. ..The  precise details of the 
application are confidential to the Bank for reasons of security  and we regret  that we are 
unable to offer any specific  reasons for our decision.
Mr M then brought Ss complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked at 
everything thats happened  but didnt think the bank had done anything  wrong.  He agreed 
Yorkshire Bank is entitled to decide  who it provides accounts to and it doesnt  have to 
provide a reason. 
Mr M didnt  agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
I appreciate S will be disappointed,  but Yorkshire Bank, like all banks, can make  commercial 
decisions about who it offers banking services  to and who it doesnt. In the same  way that a 
bank is entitled  to end its banking relationship with a customer  by closing accounts they hold 
with it, its also entitled not to accept an application  for new products. 
This is just the same as a customer of a bank being entitled to decide  to end the relationship  
themselves  or decide who it might, or might not, want to bank with. And, ultimately, no 
explanation is required to be provided  for its decisions. 
Of course,  Yorkshire Bank is expected to adopt  a set of procedures  for dealing with 
applications for new accounts. But the bank has such procedures in place. And these involve 
it making decisions about applications based on various criteria.  The criteria will take into 
account a number of factors but the detail of the process and individual  decisions are both 
commercially and security sensitive. Which is why it isnt required to tell S why it isnt willing 
to offer it an account  at this time.
Ref: DRN79261532Its a matter for the banks commercial judgment as to what  accounts  to agree to open  and 
what customers it wants to accept, or retain, and on what  basis.  Yorkshire Bank  is expected 
to exercise such commercial judgement, fairly and reasonably. And Im satisfied it has done 
so here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject  my decision before 18 August 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926153