K822xComplaint
Miss M (by the way of a representative)  has complained  that Indigo Michael Limited (trading
as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough  affordability checks before approving
her Safety Net facility. Miss M says that a large portion of her income  was spent exclusively
on payday loan repayments, and that in order to pay her regular expenses she had to rely on
further borrowing.
Background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
3 September 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Miss M (via the way of 
her representative)  and SNC agreed with the findings in the provisional decision and 
therefore, didnt  have anything further to add. 
My findings
Ive once more  re-considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have agreed with the findings I reached in the provisional decision.  
So, I dont see any reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional  decision.
So, I still think SNC was wrong  to have allowed Miss M to take further drawdowns on the 
facility after 25 March  2016. Ive outlined below what SNC needs  to do to put things right.
what SNC  should do to put things  right
Its not clear if Miss M has repaid  her account in full or whether she still has an outstanding
balance. So, if the debt has been  sold to a third party,  SNC  should, if it wishes,  buy the debt
back and then carry out the redress below.  If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt
back then it needs  to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
To put things right for Miss M, SNC should:
Remove all unpaid  interest, fees and charges from the outstanding  balance that were
applied from 25 March  2016
Ref: DRN72732442SNC should rework the account  from 25 March 2016 so Miss M only has to repay the
principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Miss M to SNC  (and
the third party  if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Miss M had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment  8% simple a year interest  should
be added  from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above,  an outstanding principal balance remains,  SNC
should make  an arrangement with Miss M to repay  the balance. But Id remind the
lender of its obligation to treat her fairly.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ms credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 25 March 2016  until the facility is closed,
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Ms
Complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN72732443EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss M (by the way of a representative) has complained  that Indigo Michael Limited (trading
as Safety  Net Credit (SNC))  didnt complete enough affordability checks  before approving
her Safety Net facility. Miss M says that a large  portion of her income was spent  exclusively
on payday loan repayments,  and that in order to pay her regular expenses  she had to rely on
further borrowing.
Background
Miss M approached  SNC for a Safety Net facility in February  2015. This was a running credit
account where  a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account  once their account  balance fell below  a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Miss M was initially given a facility with a £250 credit limit in February  2015. Her limit was
increased on five occasions  with her final increase taking her credit limit to £510
in June 2016.  The most recent  correspondence from SNC shows  there is an outstanding
balance of around £170  as of May 2019.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Miss Ms complaint.  She thought  the checks SNC  carried
out before granting  this facility were  proportionate. And that the information SNC gathered
about Miss Ms circumstances suggested she would be able to afford  the repayments she
was committed  to making.
But due to the way Miss M used the facility,  our adjudicator thought SNC  should have
stopped allowing  her to continue using  it from 25 March 2016.
It appears that Miss M agreed with our adjudicators opinion. SNC disagreed and provided
the following points:
SNC says its product  works in much the same  way as a credit card and, like a credit
card, the important factor is not the number of individual uses (in this case
drawdowns) but the outstanding balance, which  did not exceed £601.11.
SNC believes Miss Ms SafetyNet facility to have been affordable  at all times and it
does not believe  it to be treating customers fairly to withdraw affordable credit lines
from customers in the sort of manner  suggested.
As no agreement could  be reached  the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken  into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules  and good  industry practice  at the time the facility was provided.
To begin with, Miss M seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong to
approve her running credit facility. For the avoidance of any doubt,  I also dont think SNC
was wrong to have initially granted her facility  based on the checks  SNC carried out. So, this
decision will instead focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Miss Ms facility whilst  she
held it and whether there was a point which SNC shouldve halted any further  borrowing on
Ref: DRN72732444it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong  to have  initially granted the facility, I do think it was
unfair for it to have allowed Miss M to continue to draw down on the account  from
25 March  2016. This is because I think the way she was using the account  indicated she
wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think  this is the case.
Firstly, under the provisions outlined  in the relevant CONC (6.7.2)  which is the relevant
regulation at the time SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines  some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course,
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like:
The following matters, among others, of which  a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be
aware, may indicate that a customer is in financial  difficulties;
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation  to a credit card
or store card
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments  out of disposable income  or at all, for example,  where there is 
evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility
bills), the customer having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the
customer only being  able to meet repayments of debts by the disposal of
assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice
body) with a view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt
solution or to seeking debt counselling.
So CONC sets out that SNC was required  to monitor Miss Ms use of the facility  and
provides indications  which  could suggest that a customer was in financial difficulty. In
addition to this, SNC had a fairly good  indication  of Miss Ms actual financial position,
because throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only  access  to her bank
account.
In its recent correspondence, SNC has referred to (CONC) 5.2A.28  which states:
a firm should consider the customer's ability to repay the maximum amount of credit
available (equivalent to the credit limit) under the agreement within a reasonable period; and
may, in considering what is a reasonable period, have regard to the typical time required for
repayment that would apply to a fixed-sum unsecured personal loan for an amount equal to
the credit limit.
However, the above regulation came into effect  from November 2018,  which is after the
period Im considering  here. And as SNC  hasnt provided  any context regarding its referral  to
this rule, I fail to see the relevance of it in this case.
In any event I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC  to have  believed that Miss M would
repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time when the facility was initially
granted. And I think that this would have  resulted  in monthly repayments of around £20 
given a credit  limit of £250.  After all, this is what was expected, and the way this facility was
designed. But if Miss M wasnt using  the facility as intended, this could indicate to SNC  that
she was having wider  financial problems.
In order  to see whether I think it was fair to allow Miss M to continue to drawdown, Ive
Ref: DRN72732445considered the relationship  between when repayments were made  to SNC, the value of
those payments, and then when  Miss M returned for further  borrowing. After  all, if Miss M
was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking  a payment from her account, this
ought to have  indicated that SNC taking the full payment  from Miss Ms account was causing
her to re-borrow the funds that it had just taken.
By 25 March  2016, Miss M had had the facility  for just over a year.  Shed  had four credit
increases and her credit  limit was now nearly  double  the amount that she was initially
approved for. SNC would have seen that as soon as Miss M received her salary (around the
23rd of the month) she was clearing her balance  in full. But within a couple  of weeks,
sometimes within a couple of days, she had requested further funds,  mainly drawing up to
her credit limit. When the facility was approved, there was an expectation she would repay  it
over a reasonable  period of time. But as time went on, it was clear that this was not
happening.
In order  to see what Miss Ms circumstances  were  like and whether the facility was still
affordable for her, Ive considered three months bank statements leading up to 25 March 2016. 
During this time, SNC would have seen that Miss M was receiving an average  monthly  income of 
around £1,686. But it appears that Miss Ms income  had reduced two months in a row, for February  
and March  2016, in comparison to the income she had received since the start of the lending 
relationship.
I can see Miss M had outgoings averaging  £1,134 in January, February and March 2016.
These outgoings consisted  of £600 for rent which could be seen on her bank statements
since the start of the lending relationship, £291 for utilities, insurances, TV subscriptions and
general direct debits. Miss M was still using an overdraft, which she continued to be charged
around £12 a month for as well as charges  for using  an unauthorised overdraft  as well as
fees for using  her authorised overdraft. It is also evident that Miss M had a car as she was
paying around £50 for petrol each month as well as payments towards her car tax.
Miss Ms monthly costs for food averaged around £151 and she was still making payments
to debt companies. Miss Ms bank statements  shows she was paying  between £20-25 to
these debt companies at the start of the relationship with SNC.  But by March  2016, these
payments had increased to £35 as she was now paying  an additional  two debt companies.
This is something which suggests there had been  a slight deterioration in her finances as
she owed money to more  debt companies. Ive included all of these  regular outgoings as
part of my calculations when considering Miss Ms finances. And this leads me to conclude
that her disposable income was around £552 each month  so SNC may have thought 
Miss M had sufficient disposable income  to be able to afford the repayments she was committed  to 
making.
As SNC had access  to Miss Ms bank statements, it would have also seen that Miss M was
withdrawing large amounts  of cash each month and she was transferring  money  to and
receiving money from other accounts.  And on the face of it, it looks like these  transfers were
to and from friends and family. And the majority  of the time, Miss M was transferring out
more money to these accounts compared to what she received.
So, I think SNC should  have asked further questions about Miss Ms circumstances in order
to find out what these transfers were for. After all, SNC was already aware of Miss Ms
regular salary  and, ultimately,  adding the money coming  into her account  as additional
income would have  made a significant difference.
When we asked Miss M for further  information  about her circumstances,  she told us she was
regularly borrowing money from her family  and friends each  month to try to prevent her
direct debits failing as well as incurring  significant bank charges.  Miss M confirmed she was
living with her partner at the time, and he would transfer money into her account, sometimes
to contribute to household bills as well as to try and prevent direct debits failing  and incurring
Ref: DRN72732446overdraft fees.
I dont find what Miss M has told us unreasonable as Miss Ms bank statements  clearly show
she was receiving payment into her account every three months  as well as she was
borrowing and repaying money. As Ive explained, more of the time, she transferred out
more than what  she received. And she was withdrawing large amounts in cash  each month,
ranging between £300 - £670. So, when  considering Miss Ms overall ability  to sustainably
repay her borrowing, SNC needed to be minded  to consider the transfers but also the
significant amount of cash withdrawals considering these were visible on her bank
statements each month.
In short, Miss Ms monthly repayments were similar  amounts as her disposable  income.  I
acknowledge that Miss M could have  made smaller  repayments  each month in-line with her
credit agreement. But it was clear that she wasnt intending to use her account in this way
and was, in fact, using the facility to withdraw a series  of payday loans. To be clear  I am not
saying that this was a payday loan, merely that the manner  in which Miss M was using the
facility is similar to what we see when considering  similar  complaints about payday lenders.
The way she was using  her facility was likely to cause a knock-on  effect for the following
months  further demonstrated by Miss Ms need to continue borrowing  from SNC as well as
friends and family.
Whilst I agree with SNC that its not about the number  of drawdowns a customer has, if a
customer continues to come back for further borrowing shortly  after making  their
repayments, this could be a sign that the customer is potentially reliant on the facility. If the
facility was affordable,  then I think its reasonable to say that Miss M wouldnt  need to
drawdown as soon as she made her repayments. She was effectively borrowing what  she
had just repaid each  month.
In my view,  Miss Ms account activity  shouldve been enough for SNC to have proactively
contacted her to arrange smaller payments  as permitted by the agreement  and in line with
what it would take for the facility to be cleared within  a reasonable period. Rather than
continue taking  the full account balance on a regular  basis. After  all, I dont consider it fair,
reasonable and proportionate  to on the one hand argue  that the facility was affordable
because it could be repaid  within a reasonable period of time when it could  see that Miss M
was not making payments on this basis.
Ive taken on board what SNC says about the cost of the facility to Miss M. SNC says that
the facility was cheap  for her, but Im not persuaded by SNCs argument or its analysis of the
costs. The first reason  I believe this is because the interest  rate for this product is set at
0.8% per day. This is the same as the maximum  daily interest  rate high-cost short-term
credit providers are permitted to charge.
I think  its important to note that high-cost short-term credit providers  are only entitled to
charge these amounts  for short-term periods rather than over the longer term. I accept that
SNCs terms and conditions  meant  that it could  only charge  this rate for a maximum  period
of 40 days. But I dont think that this helped Miss M because  of the way that SNC  was
collecting payments from her. As Ive explained, Miss M was repaying her account in full
every month  which meant she wasnt receiving the full benefit of paying what she owed over
a longer period  of time.
I also acknowledge what SNC has said about the facility  being  similar to a credit  card - the
facility came with a credit  limit and a customer could drawdown available  funds. But
ultimately, SNCs facility  isnt a credit card and I dont think comparisons are helpful. SNCs
responsibility was to monitor for signs of financial difficulty, which I think had become
apparent by March 2016. And once this had become  known, SNC had a responsibility  to not
continue allowing  Miss M to unsustainably use a facility that was causing  further financial
Ref: DRN72732447detriment to her.
So I think SNC were wrong to allow Miss M to continue drawing  down on the facility from 
25 March  2016 onwards.
Ref: DRN7273244