K821x#15complaint
Mr A, as director  of C, a limited company,  complains  that UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  
cancelled Cs motor  fleet insurance as if it had never existed, known  as voidance.
Mr S is representing C.
background
C had a mini fleet motor  insurance policy, which was taken out through  a broker  and 
underwritten by UKI. The policy started  in July 2015,  and was renewed the following year.
The annual premium  for the policy  was paid in full. 
When a claim  was made on the policy after the theft of one of the insured cars, UKI became  
aware that Mr A, the director of C, had had previous personal insurance policies voided. And 
this information  hadnt been given to it when it agreed the insurance  for C. 
UKI said it wouldnt have  offered C the fleet insurance if it had known this. So it wrote to C to 
ask for the discrepancy to be explained. And, when it hadnt heard anything  more from C 
after two weeks, it wrote to say the policy would be cancelled  as if it never existed.
A few weeks  later Mr A was stopped by the police  for driving without insurance. He has 
since had points added to his driving licence because of this. Mr A complained and asked for 
a refund of the policy premium C had paid.  And he said he never received UKIs letter telling 
him his policy  would be cancelled.
But UKI believed  Mr A had deliberately provided  false or inaccurate  information when taking 
out the insurance. This was why it cancelled Cs policy as if it never existed. And it said that, 
under the terms  of the insurance, it was within its rights to retain  the policy premium.
Our investigator said a number of the policy documents  had included  a statement, which 
said: Neither the proposer, director or partner of your Trade or Business or its Subsidiary
Companies either personally or in any business  capacity: have ever had a proposal refused 
or declined  or ever had an insurance cancelled,  renewal refused or had special terms 
imposed...
The investigator thought Mr A had had the opportunity to realise  this wasnt  right for his 
situation. So she thought the decision to void the policy was fair. 
But she said UKI had made a mistake by sending the correspondence about the cancellation 
to the wrong address. It had been told Cs registered address had changed but this wasnt  
properly updated.  She didnt  think it was fair for the policy to have been voided  until after C 
became aware  of the intention to do this. She thought the actions  of Mr A driving  without 
insurance and the consequences of this wouldnt have happened if the letters  had been  
correctly addressed. So the investigator  said UKI should pay any legal and court fees 
incurred as a result. She asked Mr S to confirm what these were. 
However, Mr S said Mr A wanted a full refund of the premium C had paid. He said he wasnt 
asked about previous voided policies and hadnt  received any policy documents. He wanted 
all the court issues sorted out and for any record of the voidance to be removed. 
Ref: DRN76817262my first provisional  findings
I issued my first provisional  decision  on this complaint in January 2018. I thought the 
complaint should  be partly  upheld. 
I thought there were  three  main  aspects to the complaint: the voidance  of the policy; the 
retention of the premium and Mr A receiving penalty  points  on his driving licence.
UKI said it wouldnt have  offered the insurance  if it had been told that Mr A, as director  of C, 
had had previous  insurance policies voided.  
Mr A said he wasnt asked about  his own insurance  history and didnt receive  any policy  
documentation from UKI. But Mr As broker told us that the statement of facts document  was 
sent to C, and this documentation was also sent by UKI. 
This was when the policy was originally taken out in 2015, and then again when it renewed 
the following  year. It gives the information that was used in providing the insurance, including 
the statement  the investigator has referred to. The copy  of the covering  letter  for the renewal 
in 2016 is addressed to Cs registered address at the time.
I thought this clearly  set out what information UKI had been  given  when providing  the 
insurance. And Mr A had the opportunity to review  this and let UKI know that he, as director 
of C, had had previous  insurance policies voided.
So I thought  UKIs decision  to void Cs policy was fair in the particular circumstances. It 
wasnt told that Mr A had previously had insurance  policies voided,  and it had based  its 
decision to offer C insurance on incorrect information it had been  given. 
I looked through the terms of Cs insurance with UKI and, under  the General Conditions,  
point seven it says:  If you make or report a claim under this Policy  which  is in any way 
fraudulent, you will lose all benefit and the premiums you have paid. You may also have to 
repay money  we have  already paid to you. 
UKI became aware that Mr A had had three previous insurance policies cancelled  after C 
made a claim for the theft of a vehicle. Cs policy was cancelled  because this information  led
UKI to believe that false or inaccurate information  have been  given when  the policy started.
There were also two other pending claims on Cs policy, aside from the theft, which  involved 
other drivers. However, I understand  that these didnt result  in costs to UKI because of the 
voidance.
So I didnt think UKI acted unreasonably in retaining  the policy premium C paid.
UKI made a mistake as Cs change of registered address wasnt updated  on all of its 
systems. And this meant that its letter asking for an explanation about the discrepancy in the 
information and subsequent letter about the voidance of the policy were sent to Cs old 
business premises. 
I said Cs registered address wasnt changed with Companies House until after the letters 
were sent.  But UKI renewed the policy to the new address before this date and this 
shouldve been  reflected  on UKIs records.
Ref: DRN76817263Mr A was stopped by the police in November 2016  and it was this that alerted him that the 
policy had been  cancelled. 
Because of the difference in the address and UKIs  mistake, I thought  it was fair to say that 
the penalty points Mr A now has on his driving  licence couldve been  prevented  if the 
voidance letter had been  correctly addressed and Mr A had known C no longer had cover.
So I agreed that UKI should pay compensation for the trouble this caused. And I said it 
should also provide C with a letter to give to future insurers  to explain that, although the 
voidance was correct,  it was its mistake with sending  the voidance  letter  to a previous 
address that led Mr A to drive a fleet car without knowing C no longer had insurance.
We asked Mr A to provide  us with information about  the legal costs incurred for this matter. 
But I hadnt seen  that this information has been given to us. And it wasnt  clear that Mr A had 
legal representation when he attended his court hearing. So I said UKI should pay £250  in 
compensation to recognise that its mistake  meant  that Mr A drove without  insurance  and 
received penalty  points  on his driving licence as a result.
the responses
UKI said it wasnt always its practice  to contact  policyholders directly,  as the broker  acts as 
the point of contact.  It relies on the broker to contact  the policyholder to discuss the status 
regarding their premiums after a voidance as it is the broker who handles the customers 
account. 
It said it sent a full copy of the voidance letter to the broker before voiding the policy and so 
doesnt believe Mr A suffered a loss from a fault UKI was responsible  for. It assumed the 
broker would  contact  C to discuss the fleet policy and the retention of the premium.  
On Cs behalf,  Mr S said that no policy documents had ever been  received and this was the 
insurers responsibility. Mr A wasnt asked the questions about his own previous insurance  
history  it wasnt that he didnt supply  this information. C isnt now able to get fleet 
insurance because  of this. Mr S said the premium should be paid back. He also supplied  
information about the court fee and solicitors costs  incurred. The court  fee was £326  and the 
solicitors fee was £960. 
my second  provisional  decision
After considering the responses, and seeking  further clarification, I found Id reached 
different conclusions to the aspects of this complaint. And this led to my second provisional  
decision which was issued in February 2019.
On my behalf the investigator asked the broker for information relevant to the voidance  and 
also its knowledge of any past cancellations.  And it said it was aware that Mr A had had 
previous private  car insurance policy cancelled because  his proof of no claims  bonus  wasnt 
acceptable to that company, and this explanation  had then been accepted by an earlier  
insurer. It said that no policy it had set up for Mr A had been  cancelled. 
Ref: DRN76817264We also asked Mr A for information  about the previously  cancelled policies he had referred 
to but he no longer had this information  though  he accepts that he has had policies 
cancelled in the past which he or the broker  didnt  tell UKI about. The Marine Insurance Act 
1906, which was the relevant law when the policy was taken out, says that the consumer 
and broker have a duty to provide full disclosure of every material  circumstance known to 
them and, if they dont, the insurer can avoid  the contract, as UKI had done.
UKI provided  further information about  the previously cancelled  policies, along with a 
recording of its discussion with Mr A in 2016  when  Cs policy was voided. From this, I 
understood that Mr A has applied for insurance with different parts of the group UKI is part of 
from 2012. The first of these was voided  as the no claims bonus document wasnt  valid.
Mr A applied for insurance  with another part of the same group  two months later,  but didnt 
declare the voidance, so that policy was also voided. He then applied  again for insurance 
with UKI in 2015,  without declaring  that hed previously had policies withdrawn. The call 
recording indicated that Mr A was made aware in 2012 that hed need to declare them  to 
future insurers.
UKI said, had it been made aware  of the previous policy cancellations, it wouldnt have 
insured C in 2015 or in 2016. It provided information from its underwriting criteria  that 
showed an application for insurance would be declined if the proposer, director,  partner or 
associated business  had previously had insurance  withdrawn. So I thought UKI acted fairly 
and reasonably in voiding  the policy. But I said I thought it shouldve voided  it from 2015 
rather than 2016,  because this was the first point  that UKI wouldnt have offered C 
insurance.
UKI provided  a copy of the cancellation letter sent to Cs broker,  and I considered the point  
made that it relies upon the broker to contact its client as it is the broker  who handles  the 
account. The broker confirmed that it hadnt received the letter from UKI with the copy  of the 
voidance letter to C and the first time it was aware of the voidance  was when the complaint 
investigations had started.
However, the voidance  of a policy is a significant fact. In this case, the insurance  covered a 
number of vehicles  and drivers for C. UKI did have the correct address for C, although this 
may not have been updated on all of its internal systems. So I saw no reason to put fault 
with C or the broker for UKI not doing this  they are unlikely to have known there could be a 
problem, if it was believed  the current address had already been provided.
Mr A attended a court appearance for driving  without third party  insurance.  And I thought this 
couldve been prevented if the voidance letter had been correctly addressed and Mr A had 
known C no longer had insurance  cover.
The insurance contract in question  was Cs as a company,  rather than Mr As himself. Whilst 
the consequences for Mr A came about  because of his position as director  of C, I said I can 
only consider the effects on C as a company, rather than Mr A as an individual.  
I said that, if it could be shown that court  costs  and solicitors fees were incurred directly  by 
C, UKI should refund these to C.
I also gave further  thought  about the wording of UKIs terms of business and the reasons it 
gave for not returning the insurance premium for the avoided  policy  to C. UKI said that 
because it wasnt declared that Mr A had previously had policies cancelled,  he acted 
fraudulently and so it could  retain  the premiums.
Ref: DRN76817265But I didnt agree that it had been  sufficiently demonstrated that C acted fraudulently  or 
behaved deliberately in a manner that meant the premium  should be retained.  
Mr A doesnt  feel that he was asked about  his own insurance history  when C was applying 
for insurance. It seemed that his broker was aware that hed had at least  one previous  policy  
cancelled, the explanation  of which had been  accepted by a different insurer.
But I didnt think this lack of disclosure could be said to be fraudulent  on the part of C. Also, 
the wording of the specific term UKI referred to says If you make  or report  a claim under this 
policy which  is in any way fraudulent.. I said C made a claim after the theft of one of the 
insured vehicles so it doesnt seem that this was a fraudulent  claim.  UKI told us that it 
incurred no costs through the three recorded claims while  the policy was in place. 
So I said that I thought UKI should refund the full premium C paid for the avoided  policy  
years, from when UKI wouldnt have offered C insurance. This included the insurance 
premium and tax for the years 2015/2016 and 2016/2017  together with simple interest at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date C paid it to the date its refunded. I said UKI should provide a 
breakdown of this calculation.  I also said it should refund the related legal costs should it be 
sufficiently demonstrated  that these were  paid by C.
the responses
UKI responded to say that it agreed with my provisional findings.
Mr S responded on Mr As behalf  to say that he thought my findings were fair. However  he 
clarified that no claim had been made  for the stolen car, he had only informed the broker 
about it so it could be taken off of the insurance.  He is aware that sufficient evidence  of the 
court and solicitors  fees being paid by C is still needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As clarification of the circumstances of the declaration of the theft of the car, 
however, this doesnt change the conclusions I reached  relating  to UKIs decision to void Cs 
policy. This is because it wouldnt have agreed  to provide the insurance  if it had been aware 
of the previously voided insurance policies. Whether the theft claim  had been  made  or not 
wouldnt have changed the underlying reasons for the decision to void the insurance. And, if 
there wasnt a claim, this couldnt have been  fraudulent with regards  to the retention of the 
premium.
As neither UKI nor Mr A as director of C has added  anything which may alter my provisional 
findings, I see no reason  to change the conclusions I reached.
Ref: DRN76817266my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require UK Insurance Limited to:
refund  Cs insurance premium and tax for the years 2015/2016 and 2016/2017
and add simple  interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date C paid it
to the date its refunded. UKI should also provide a breakdown of this calculation;
refund  the related legal costs  should  it be sufficiently demonstrated that these
were paid by C. 
With regards to the refund of the premiums, UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days  
of the date on which we tell it C accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7681726