K821x#15complaint
Mr B feels  that Tesco Personal Finance Plc has treated him unfairly in his section 75 claim 
regarding some mechanical work carried out on his car.
Background
In May 2020  I issued  a provisional  decision saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. Tesco has responded with its further thoughts on the matter. Mr B has not 
responded within the time limit set.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Tesco feels  my position  regarding the mileage  is unfair. But I think  Tescos logic is 
unpersuasive. It has said Mr B has confirmed he drove the car twice,  and it took over a mile 
of driving before the car went into limp mode.  This is inconsistent with what  the expert has 
said would  happen;  the lack of power  would be immediately obvious to a layperson. It goes 
on to use this to question the validity of what Mr B has said.  However and clearly to my mind 
a lack  of power and limp both suggest  that there is some power but greatly  reduced. It is 
not called  dead stop mode and the expert  didnt  refer to no power. So I think this 
argument falls some way short of being  persuading me Mr B is unreliable.
Tesco also says if you believe there was something wrong with the original cambelt
hence the need for a change, this enforces the idea that other components of the engine 
were faulty  due to the original cambelt  showing signs of fault' prior to Mechanic A being  
involved.  I do not agree  with the thinking here. My point that Tesco  refer to was that there 
was a reason  for replacing it-that  is all and it wasnt key to my decision making anyway. But 
Im not persuaded that because this cambelt  needed  replacing it had already damaged  the 
engine-because there  is no persuasive  evidence  to support this argument.
Tesco goes  on to argue  the other  reports are not conclusive. The test I have to apply is 
balance of probabilities. And I consider Ive applied this to the reports and overall, fairly.
Ive considered everything Tesco  has said but I do not think it has made  any persuasive 
comments on my provisional decision and having  considered the matter again, I see no 
persuasive reason  to change my position. Consequently, I uphold  this complaint as I 
described in my provisional  decision and below.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I uphold  this 
complaint I direct Tesco Personal Finance  Plc to:
1)Pay the costs  of repairing the car following submission of quotes  for that work  by Mr 
B. Or, if the quotes show the cost of repairs to be more  than £3368 Tesco can 
choose to buy the car for £3368.  Ive considered  two valuations  from car valuers for 
this car and they are £3086 and £3650  respectively.  So I have averaged  the two to 
find a fair market cost.
Ref: DRN775773022)And upon proof of payment refund to Mr B the cost of the inspection together  with 
simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN77577303COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION 
complaint
Mr B feels that Tesco Personal  Finance  Plc has treated him unfairly in his section 75 claim  regarding some 
mechanical work carried out on his car.
background
In July 2017  Mr B paid a motor repair company (Mechanics  A) to supply and fit a cambelt to his car. Mechanics 
A did this and when Mr B picked up the car, he says a warning light came on. He says he was assured  by 
Mechanics A the car was fine. 
The next day he describes  how he drove the car a short  distance when it lost power. He told Mechanics A about 
this and it said to go to its appointed repairers (Garage B). Garage B inspected the car and a new crank shaft 
pulley was fitted. Mr B says Garage B also told him that the turbo had failed.  He then asked for the car to be 
delivered a couple  of miles away so he could take possession of it.
In August 2017 Mr B says he towed his car to another garage,  one independent  of those mentioned (Garage C) 
to have the turbo replaced. During this inspection they said the turbo had failed due to being oil starved  which 
they considered couldve  happened as a result of a poorly fitted  cambelt. 
When asked, Mechanics  A said they thought the turbo  had become  damaged  due to the oil pump or a blockage 
in a pipe which  is unrelated to the cam belt change.  They  said even if the cam belt wasnt timed correctly it would  
still drive the oil pump   which is why the vehicle was still able to be driven without the turbo.
Tesco asked  Mr B for an independent  report. Mr B says when he asked  about this, he was told the cost of the 
report and that hed need  to have the engine stripped.  He says he had to save  up for this and whilst he was doing 
this, he had a friend  strip the engine for him which took hundreds of hours.
In August 2018 the independent inspection was completed, and a report issued.  This included the following  
comments: 
The slight  impact damage to the valve edging and piston  crowns is indicative of incorrect  valve timing  
caused by a poorly aligned cambelt.
In the engineers opinion, the most probable  cause for the original turbo  to fail would have  been from 
poor valve  timing as the oil pump is connected  to the crankshaft and runs in time with the valve timing 
and if incorrectly aligned then the oil pump will not operate correctly.
By now Mr B was unhappy with the situation and had complained  to Mechanics A who had rejected his 
complaint. As hed used his Tesco card to pay Mechanics A he had also complained  to Tesco. Mr B wanted 
either all the consequential issues fixed in the car and compensation for additional costs or to be compensated 
for the value of the car.
Tesco issued  a chargeback to Mechanics A which was successful, and Mr B was refunded the amount he paid 
Mechanics A. But Mr B didnt think this fully covered his losses. So he asked Tesco to cover his further costs and 
consequential losses through  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Tesco looked at what  had happened 
under section 75 (and other relevant legislation) and has said to this service  that there is no evidence to suggest 
that the issues  the customer has experienced  with his car are related to the work  carried out by (Mechanics  A). 
Tesco goes  on to say that a number  of parties have  inspected,  accessed  or worked on the engine between when 
Mechanics A worked on it and when the inspection was carried out. It also points to evidence suggesting  that the 
car had driven  hundreds of miles after leaving Mechanics A and before being inspected.  It also says that the 
independent inspection  is inconclusive .
Mr B, not being happy with Tescos position, brought his complaint here.  Our investigator looked into the matter 
and decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Mr B doesnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My provisional  findings
I have considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of their complaint.
Ref: DRN77577304Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I have to base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities in other  words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances .
Having considered what has happened  here I think my reasoning is substantially different to that of the 
investigator. As a consequence Ive decided to issue a provisional decision  in order to allow both Mr B and Tesco 
one final say on the matter  before I issue my final decision.
There are a number of parties that have been involved in what happened here. However this decision is only 
about Tesco. Tesco is responsible for its actions  and in this case under the legislation it is also equally  liable if 
there's either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by Mechanics A for goods or services. My role isnt to 
decide Tescos liability under Section 75. Instead, its whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably  in dealing with 
his claim, considering what  Section 75 says. 
Tesco has pointed  towards evidence  that between the car being  with Mechanics A and being inspected  (a period 
of just over a year) it appears  that the car was driven approximately 397 miles. Mr B disputes this strongly. Tesco 
points to the independent reports finding  on the mileage and a piece of paper  from Mechanics A with its business 
stamp on it and some handwritten  brief notes which include  mileage. 
Having considered the independent report and the information in it I think  it likely the mileage recorded in it is 
reliable. Mr B has said in his response  to our investigators view that Mechanics A guestimated (sic) the cars 
mileage from memory  when  writing the receipt out he was stood next to the car and did not look at the 
dashboard. I also note that Mr B said in his original complaint  to us that at the time Mechanics A did the work  
that the engineer had said  it was all done and signed a receipt on the driveway without actually  checking the 
odometer. I also note the independent reports  comments on the matter  which notes that the car could have 
been driven but an immediate lack of power and engine noise would have been clearly  noted to a layperson. 
Bearing in mind Mr Bs consistent testimony on this issue  and the independent  engineers  comments  on the 
driveability of the car I think  on balance Mr Bs comments on this matter are persuasive. Accordingly I am not 
persuaded this car drove hundreds of miles with these  issues.  I prefer  Mr Bs position that it only covered  a very 
limited number  of miles (as Mr B says I drove approx. 100m (metres)  and the next day approx.  one mile).
Tesco also point  to the fact that Garage C and Mr Bs friend had access  to and worked on Mr Bs car prior to the 
report being  done. It also says the independent report is inconclusive.
Clearly Mechanics A and Mr B believed  there  to be a problem with the original cambelt otherwise it wouldnt have 
been replaced. Mechanics A have provided no detailed description of the car on first inspection or a detailed 
explanation of how it went about the fitting of the cambelt. But I can see from the cars MOT history that it was in 
constant use beforehand  and had passed its previous MOT. And Mr B has said to Tesco  I had driven 40,000  
miles in this car and never had any mechanical issues.  So Im not persuaded the car had sustained significant 
damage before going  to Mechanics A other  than needing  a new cambelt.
But in providing a service  Mechanics A are required to act with reasonable skill and care. Ive considered the 
Motor Ombudsmans guidance around cambelts.  It says:
When a timing belt is faulty and comes apart,  the pistons  in the engine will collide with the valves  in the cylinder 
head, generally causing  the valves to bend or brake. The stress of the impact can also cause damage to cylinder 
heads, cam shafts,  valve  guides and rockers. Also, in extreme cases, pistons  can be subject to damage which is 
often expensive to repair.  
So clearly a cambelt  replacement  needs to be done with reasonable care and skill. Mr B has given  clear 
testimony that once the cambelt fit had been done by Mechanics A (which  had been done on his driveway) they 
had left without  test driving the car to see if it had been done  correctly. Ive considered the available  evidence 
from Mechanics A, which  amounts to a handwritten note from the time and an emailed response which says I do 
not accept the cambelt has damaged  the engine in anyway. I can see that Tesco has not provided any further  
evidence from Mechanics  A. 
However Garage C has noted  that the turbo  was oil starved when there was the correct  amount of engine oil in 
the sump  and having learned  from Mr B that there had been a cambelt change they said and if the cambelt isnt 
fitted correctly can cause major engine  damage which is present on this vehicle . It is important to note that this 
inspection by Garage  C and its finding of major engine damage is prior to Mr Bs friend touching the car and 
about eight  days  since  Mechanics A last touched it. So I think Tescos pointing to the friend touching  the car isnt 
persuasive as an independent  inspection noted  major engine damage before  this happened.
Ref: DRN77577305And as the independent report  engineer confirmed to Tesco directly with the visible markings to the piston 
crowns and valves this is a clear indication of incorrect valve  timing/fitment  of the cambelt.
So both Garage C and the independent engineer  point to damage that is indicative of incorrect fitting of the 
cambelt. So Im currently  satisfied such damage has been done to this car. And Mr B was entitled to rely on 
Mechanics A saying the car was ready to drive  after it replaced  the cambelt as they are providing  that service and 
hes not an expert  in the matter.  So I dont  think any damage caused by Mr B driving the car the very short 
distances hes described should be his responsibility. And Mr B says that Mechanics A did drive/tried to drive the 
car later. 
Mechanics A should have run the car after working  on it to ensure  the cambelt was fitted properly. And if it had 
done this it would have had opportunity to identify any other problems  caused by the cambelts fitting. It chose not 
to do this and as a consequence I think it fair to be responsible for this. So I consider it to be more likely than not 
that the engine  was damaged by Mechanics A when it installed the cambelt and/or  during the subsequent  work  it 
did on this car or when it was driven after the cambelt was fitted. That would be a breach of contract by 
Mechanics A because  the installation  service  wasnt  provided with the required level of care and skill  and Tesco  
is jointly  liable  for that breach under section  75. 
Ultimately Mechanics A (and hence Tesco) have  provided  very little evidence or explanation  step by step of what 
they actually did to Mr Bs car throughout the time of working  on it. Mr B has provided  his own extensive 
explanation of what happened and written documentation from two independent sources which although  not 
wholly conclusive does point towards failings in fitting the cambelt. And this was work carried  out by Mechanics  
A. And as the test I must apply is balance of probabilities Im satisfied that Mechanics A actions did cause the 
damage suffered. And as a consequence I dont think Tesco acted fairly when declining his section 75 claim.  I am 
currently minded to uphold this complaint  against  Tesco. 
So my current thinking is that it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco to:
Pay the costs of repairing  the car following submission of quotes for that work by Mr B. Or, if the quotes 
show the cost of repairs to be more than £3368  Tesco  can choose  to buy the car for £3368. Ive 
considered two valuations from car valuers for this car and they are £3086 and £3650 respectively. So I 
have averaged the two to find a fair market  cost.
And upon proof  of payment  refund the cost of Ms inspection together with simple interest at the rate of 
8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement
I dont doubt  Mr B has experienced inconvenience  but most of this arises from the actions of Mechanics  A. Tesco 
is only liable for those actions of Mechanics A which  amount to a breach of contract  and/or misrepresentation. So 
I dont think Tesco should pay the car rental, lost wages, insurance administration costs or other losses which  Mr 
B refers to in his claim to Tesco of 01 October 2017.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons set out above, I am currently minded to uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
Plc and for it to pay redress  as set out above.
I now invite both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within the timeline described above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7757730