K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them PPI policies.
 
background
This complaint is about PPI policies that Mr and Mrs J took out in connection with mortgages 
they arranged  in 1998 and 2001. They took out a policy that covered them  both for accident,  
sickness and unemployment in 1998. In 2001  they took out a policy that covered Mr J alone 
if he was off work sick because of accident  or sickness. Unemployment cover was added  to 
this policy  in 2002. Mrs J took out a policy at the same time, which covered her if she 
became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  find that the policies had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with 
the adjudicators  conclusions,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Mr and Mrs J consider  Nationwide  advised them to take out the 1998 policy.  They  refer to 
leaflets Nationwide  gave  them at the time, which included phrases such as we strongly 
recommend, we advise  and wed advise against.  Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs J have 
said. 
But to conclude that a customer received advice, I would expect there  to be some  evidence 
of a discussion  either  face-to-face or over the phone  so the business  could have found  
out about the customers particular circumstances and needs. From what Ive been told that 
didnt happen  here. I think  its more likely  that Nationwide  gave  Mr and Mrs J information 
about the policy so that they could make a decision about what  to do. 
Im not persuaded that Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs J personalised advice, or did or said 
anything that in my view would reasonably have led them to believe it was doing so. That 
means Nationwide didnt have to check whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
They had to decide that for themselves, including taking into account any other  means they 
might have had to cover their mortgage  repayments.
Im not persuaded that Nationwide  advised Mr and Mrs J to buy any of the PPI policies. So 
the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs J information  that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading in order  to put them in a position  where  they could make an informed 
choice about the insurance they were  buying?
Ref: DRN71469962If the answer to this question  is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs J are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  such  as not taking out 
the policies  if there had been no problems with the sales?
I have concluded that Mr and Mrs Js PPI policies  werent mis-sold. Ive set out my reasons 
below.
Given the amount  of time thats passed  since the 1998 sale,  I dont think  its unreasonable  
that Nationwide no longer  has a copy of the actual credit agreement. And its similar  to some 
other cases Ive seen.
But Nationwide has been able to provide a sample of the mortgage application form that it 
says wouldve been used around the time Mr and Mrs J arranged their borrowing. Its also 
provided samples of the wording that wouldve been included in the document, depending on 
whether or not the customer  wanted  to take the PPI.
Having considered the information carefully, and taking into account what I know about how 
Nationwide usually sold PPI at the time, Im satisfied  that the PPI would only have been  
included in Mr and Mrs Js mortgage application if theyd chosen to buy it. 
Mr J signed the 2001  mortgage application to show that he wanted sickness  and accident 
cover. It seems  he decided  not to take unemployment cover  at that time, but I understand 
the policy was later amended to include that cover.  
Nationwide has told us that when Mr J added unemployment cover  to his policy in 2002, 
Mrs J took out a policy for unemployment cover at the same  time. Nationwide says Mr Js 
revised policy and Mrs Js new one were taken out over the phone. 
The level of benefit chosen by Mr J in 2001,  and the subsequent amendment  and new policy 
bought by him and Mrs J suggest to me that they realised they had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and decided to take it.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, Im satisfied that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs J 
aware that the PPI was optional.
The cost of the 2001 PPI was set out on Mr and Mrs Js mortgage offer. So it seems they 
knew what they would be paying for that policy and found it acceptable. 
I cant see that the cost of the other policies was made clear to Mr and Mrs J before  they 
agreed to buy them.  But they chose to take out the policies, knowing they would have to pay 
something for them. The policies were competitively  priced and apparently affordable for 
them. So I dont think Mr and Mrs J would have made a different  decision if better  
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs J good enough information about  the PPI 
terms. But Mr and Mrs J satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policies when taking them  
out. And their circumstances  dont suggest  they would have been caught by any of the 
conditions limiting the policies main benefits (such  as those affecting  self-employed  people 
or people  with pre-existing medical conditions). So I think theyd probably still have bought 
the policies anyway. 
Ref: DRN71469963Mr and Mrs J have mentioned they might  have been able to buy PPI cover at a better price 
elsewhere. But Nationwide wasnt obliged to tell them  about  policies from different providers, 
so this point doesnt change my overall conclusions.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the policies  were mis-sold. 
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI sold in 2001 to Mr and Mrs J 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mrs Js policy  sold in 2002 was less than half 
of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Nationwide has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Js commission was less than 
half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think Nationwide needed to tell her 
about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated her unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mrs J back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  for the policy  sold in 2001. I 
understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7146996