K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros  
(Mapfre) hasnt settled  a claim he made under  his travel insurance  policy.
background
Mr C explained that in June 2018  his mobile phone  was stolen  whilst  he was on holiday in 
the UK. He said he had put the phone on the floor next to him whilst he was sitting  at the 
dockside near his accommodation. And he later noticed this had gone missing.
The next day Mr C said he went to a local mobile phone shop to get a new SIM card to use 
(he had bought  a second phone along with him on holiday). Whilst he was in the shop his 
bike was also stolen.  Because of these losses Mr C put in a claim under his travel insurance  
policy.
Mapfre hasnt provided settlement  for Mr Cs claim at this stage. It said it had asked for 
information on the bike and mobile  phone  such as evidence to show  ownership of the 
items, as well information showing Mr Cs phone had been blacklisted.
Mr C has said he provided Mapfre with this information. He sent it a photo  of himself with the 
bike, which he said showed  he owned the bike he was claiming for. He also provided 
reference numbers  that he got from the police on reporting his losses. The IMEI number for 
the phone  was not provided. Mapfre didnt think this information was sufficient enough for it 
to accept the claim.
Mapfre said the police reference numbers given  werent correct.  And it said it still needed 
information to show Mr C owned both the bike and mobile phone.  It again  asked for the 
stolen phones IMEI number, and a letter from the network provider to show  the phone had 
been blacklisted. Mr C said he had provided  sufficient information to prove his claim, 
including the things Mapfre had asked for. And he asked  Mapfre to provide  settlement for his 
claim. Because this didnt happen  Mr C referred his complaint  to this service  for an 
independent review.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think this should be upheld.  She said 
Mapfre has asked for a number of pieces of information from Mr C, but it hadnt received 
these. She thought Mapfre  were reasonable to ask for information and the bike,  phone  and 
circumstances of the loss. So, she didnt ask Mapfre to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He reiterated that he had provided information to Mapfre previously. Mr C 
then provided further information to this service  in support of his claim,  which  was passed  to 
Mapfre to review. This information  included, but wasnt  limited  to;
images of the bikes manual, after Mr C had been able to locate this;
an email from a bike store in June 2012, which Mr C said was from when he went to 
get parts added to his bike;
an email from the police to say it had looked  at CCTV, but been  able to identify 
Mr Cs bike, or any faces from this, as well as business card from the party that held 
this CCTV.
Ref: DRN73995692In relation to Mr Cs phone he sent in;
some  information from a mobile  phone store confirming  purchase of a mobile phone  
in 2016  and provided the IMEI number  for this handset. But, this was for a different 
phone from that originally claimed  for. Mr C explained he must have been confused 
about the model of the phone;
some  conversation history with the same  mobile  phone provider. But this seemed to 
refer to a different  phone.
After looking at this information Mapfres position on settling  the claim did not change.  It 
emailed Mr C, noting it has concerns  about  the validity of the claims Mr C had made for the 
phone and bike. The email contained  a number of questions  it said it needed answers to. 
And it noted it couldnt consider Mr Cs claim further  until it had received this. 
At the moment,  Mr C has not responded to all of these concerns. Our investigator  felt Mr C 
should do so. Because  Mr C didnt agree with our investigator, this complaint has been  
referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint.  
Ive explained  why below.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs policy documents, to see what cover  his policy  provides.  And I can see 
it does give him cover  for theft of his bike and mobile phone whilst on holiday. Within the 
policy booklet the following condition is detailed;
You must give InsureandGo Travel  Claims and/or  Emergency Medical Assistance all the 
documents they need to deal with any claim.  You will be responsible  for any costs involved  
in doing this.
Given this condition Im aware Mapfre are entitled to ask Mr C for documents it needs to 
handle the claim. 
It is also normal practice within the insurance industry for the insurer  to ask for information  to 
validate a policyholders  claim. 
Ive looked at the questions Mapfre initially asked Mr C, and Im satisfied these were  relevant 
to the claims being made. In September 2018 Mr C provided a photo  of him with this bike, 
evidence of his holiday accommodation and crime reference numbers he received when 
reporting the thefts to the police. So Im aware Mr C did give Mapfre  some information.  But, 
Mr C didnt provide the rest of the information Mapfre  had requested  such  as the IMEI 
number, proof of the phone being  blacklisted,  or any further proof of ownership for his bike.
Because the information Mapfre asked Mr C to provide was relevant to the loss, and was in 
line with it attempting  to validate Mr Cs claims Im satisfied Mapfre  acted fairly in saying it 
wasnt able to settle Mr Cs loss at that stage. And Im satisfied Mapfre  wasnt  unreasonably 
delaying Mr Cs claim by asking for this information. 
As explained above, since the involvement  of this service Mr C has provided further 
information in support  of his claim. Mapfre has had sight of these items. 
Ref: DRN73995693After seeing this further information Mapfre wrote to Mr C (via email) and asked for him to 
answer a number of questions  in relation to the claim. Some of these were  questions that 
had been asked and answered by Mr C previously. These questions were  about the precise  
location of Mr C and the bike when it was stolen, the address of the holiday  accommodation  
he had stayed in, evidence of Mr C telling his accommodation the phone was stolen. And 
whether he bought a replacement mobile  phone whilst on holiday to replace the stolen one. 
Mr C has already answered these questions. Mapfre has agreed it wont  ask these questions 
any further. As Mr C has already answered these Im satisfied  thats fair.
But, the remaining  questions Mapfre  asked Mr C to respond to were new questions that 
Mapfre hadnt asked  before.  These  questions were  asked in response  to the further  
information Mr C had provided. For example, it asked Mr C about the make and model of the 
phone that was stolen from him  because it had been  provided with inconsistent  information 
about what model of phone  Mr C had owned and was stolen. Mapfre also wanted to know  
further information about Mr Cs bike  such as how his bike was locked when it was stolen, 
and what it was secured  to. 
Im satisfied its reasonable  for Mapfre to ask these questions. I say this because  they are 
relevant to the subject of the claim.  And as above,  Mapfre is entitled to ask questions, or 
request information,  in order to validate a loss. So, I dont require Mapfre  to do anything  
more. Mr C would need to answer the questions asked of him.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, my final decision 
is that Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros (Mapfre) dont 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7399569