K822xcomplaint
Ms S has complained about  advice she received from Mr A, a financial adviser with Dhanda  
Financial, an appointed  representative of TenetConnect Services  Limited. Ms S was the 
victim of a fraud perpetrated by Mr A, and she holds Tenet responsible.
background 
Ms S had been  a client of Mr A for some  time before the events complained  of. Early on in 
the relationship  she had begun paying  £100  each month for his financial advice.
In June 2010 Mr A started to propose  new investments to replace existing ones.  She has 
specifically complained about the following recommendations:
1.June 2010   a £90,000 investment into an Indian property scheme.
2.September 2010  a further £8,000  invested into the property scheme.
3.January 2011   a £40,000 loan to Mr A and £10,000 into the property scheme.
4.October 2011  a further loan arrangement with Mr A for £26,000.
5.January 2012   a further payment into the property scheme of £10,500.
Its since become apparent that these arrangements were  part of a wider fraud and Ms Ss 
funds were stolen by Mr A. He was prosecuted and imprisoned.
Ms S complained about Mr As acts to Tenet, the principal of Dhanda  Financial. Tenet  didnt 
accept that is should  be held responsible. It didnt think the complaint was one we could look 
at. So Ms S referred the matter to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 December  2018.  In this I said:
We can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of 
one or more listed activities, (including  regulated  activities), or any ancillary activities  carried  
on by the firm in connection  with those  activities.  
DISP 2.3.1 says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates
to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following  activities:
(1) Regulated activities
Or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance  at DISP 2.3.3 says:  
Complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the firm  
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  the 
firm... has accepted responsibility).
Ref: DRN79271112And section  39(3) of the Financial Services Markets Act (FSMA) 2000 says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility.
This means  that in this particular  case there are two questions  to be considered to decide  
whether this complaint is one we can look at:  
1. Were the acts about which Ms S complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity? 
2. Were those acts ones for which Tenet was responsible?  
Were the acts about  which  Ms S complains  done in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
The key question in this respect is whether Ms S was advised by Mr A to sell some of her 
regulated investments in order to make the investments in the India Fund/make personal  
loans to Mr A.
Normally regulated financial advice  is well documented but it this case, not surprisingly, it 
isnt. However, the lack of documentary evidence that confirms advice was given doesnt 
mean that advice wasnt given. Financial advice can be given  in an informal non 
documented way. In deciding whether Ms S was given regulated financial advice I must do 
so on the balance of probabilities i.e. is it more likely  than not that advice was given.
The background to the various  investments in the India fund is set out in detail in Ms Ss 
original complaint letter to Tenet of 20 January 2014. In this letter Ms S makes clear  that 
each of the five surrenders to fund the Indian  investments were made on the advice of Mr A 
 the letter  does not mention the money that was loaned to Mr A.
For example in respect of the original investment of June 2010  Ms S said:
In particular Mr A told me the India fund would  generate 50% return  on investment  within  18 
months. He said it presented a very rare opportunity, as such funds  were  typically  reserved 
for preferred investors, however he was aware  of someone who had dropped  out and 
having reviewed  my portfolio said it offered a great opportunity as a replacement for some of 
my then under-performing investments.  He said he was investing his own money  too and 
that he would be the named person in respect  of the India Fund,  which he said was 
necessary because of rules and regulations in India, though I did not know what  this meant. I 
did however take comfort  from the fact that Dhanda Financial was so closely  associated with 
the India Fund. Without waiting for my response, Mr A suggested I move £90,000 from my 
existing portfolio to the India Fund and pointed out exactly which £90,000 could  be readily 
moved. More particularly he suggested  I cash in an ISA (valued at £76,267.19)  and an 
investment bond  with St. James Place  (valued at £16,995.71). He was really  quite pushy 
and at pains to point out how foolish it would be for me to pass on such  a fantastic  
opportunity. 
 
Similar comments to the above were  made  for all the other investments surrendered  by Ms 
S i.e. that they were  as a result of advice  from Mr A.
Ref: DRN79271113In her original letter of complaint Ms S did not mention money she had also lent to Mr A 
personally. As I will discuss  later the money  to fund these  loans  also came from the 
surrender of regulated investments. My conclusion from this is that Ms S attributed  the 
losses she had suffered to advice  to invest in the India fund but didnt think she could 
complain to Tenet about the personal loans. In terms of jurisdiction the key issue is whether 
she was advised  to surrender the regulated investments. As a layperson Ms S was unaware 
of this important distinction. I consider that when she made these statements she was 
unaware of the significance  of the surrender advice and was merely providing background 
information on the transaction. As far as she was concerned the primary focus of her 
complaint was the advice to invest in the India fund and not the advice to surrender  her 
existing investments.
Because of this I consider  that it is reasonable to attach greater weight to these statements 
than would normally be the case.  Non contemporaneous statements which  are unsupported  
by any additional  evidence would normally be treated with caution.  Especially in a situation  
where there  is a clear right and wrong answer from the perspective of the person making 
the statement. However, I dont think Ms S appreciated the significance of the surrender 
advice and therefore had no incentive  to be anything other than truthful  when describing the 
surrender advice.     
As part of the prosecution of Mr A, Ms S completed a sworn witness statement. This was 
completed on 14 March  2014 i.e. a short time after the above letter  of complaint sent to 
Tenet. Ms S signed  to acknowledge the following:
I shall be liable for prosecution if I have willfully  stated anything which I know to be false or 
do not believe to be true.
Given the nature of the sworn statement made by Ms S I consider that I should attach 
greater weight to it than I would normally attach to a statement made by a consumer.
The witness  statement made by Ms S is consistent  with her letter of complaint in terms of the 
Indian investments.     The witness statement also discusses the circumstances of the 
personal loans  not covered in the complaint letter. She wrote:
In January 2011he pointed out that my Sterling ISA was not performing very well. He 
suggested I cash this in and give the funds to him, in return I would receive 5% interest. 
Ms S received around £43,000 from the surrender of the ISA and loaned  £30,000  to Mr A 
and paid a further £10,000  to the India  fund.
In October  2011 Ms S made a further personal  loan to Mr A. This is described in the witness  
statement as follows:
During another meeting  with [Mr A] in October  2011 he informed me that one of my 
investments with St James Place was losing more money. Again he suggested  I give him the 
money and he would give me 5% interest  on this over 4 years.
Based on what Ms S had said in her witness statement and original letter  of complaint  I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr A advised her to sell regulated investments to 
fund the Indian investments and the personal loans.
This conclusion is supported by the following:
Ref: DRN79271114There is clear  evidence  that the surrender  of the regulated investments and fraudulent Indian 
investments are connected. Each  Indian investment/loan was accompanied by the surrender 
of a regulated  investment. As soon as the money  from the sale of the regulated  investment 
arrived in Ms Ss bank  account it was immediately transferred  to an account  in the name  of 
Mr A. 
Ms S was paying  a monthly  retainer of £100 to Mr A for the provision of ongoing  advice. As 
such any advice that Mr A gave would  not involve any additional cost to Ms S. Ms S had no 
significant cash sums available and so the funding of the Indian investments needed to be 
funded by the sale of some of her regulated investments. In deciding which investments to 
sell to fund the Indian investment/loans, Ms S could  make  the choice herself or ask her 
trusted financial adviser for his advice. In my view it is more  likely than not that in the 
circumstances Ms S would have  asked Mr A which investment(s) he recommended  selling.   
The Indian  investments never in fact existed  and the money was used by Mr A for his own 
purposes  which appeared to be to fund his extravagant lifestyle and pay gambling debts. It 
is reasonable to assume that when  Mr A approached Ms S his need for further funds was 
pressing. An important factor in deciding to go ahead with the fraudulent investment/loan 
would be the prospects  of the new investments compared to the existing one. In my view a 
persuasive fraudster, such as Mr A, would  be very likely to use such  a key argument when 
trying to obtain money from Ms S.
For the reasons  set out above my provisional conclusion  is that each sale of the regulated  
investments set out above was based on regulated investment advice given by Mr A. 
Therefore the first jurisdiction test set out above has been met.
The second  test is whether Tenet  is responsible for the acts of its AR.
Section 39(3) of FSMA says 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted it, for anything done  or omitted  by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The ombudsman service  has already dealt with a number of complaints about advice given 
by Mr A of which some  have been  upheld. In the case  of Tenetconnect Services  Ltd v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2018] EWHC  459 (Admin) Tenet  attempted  to quash  an 
ombudsmans decision upholding a complaint involving Mr A. Many of the arguments put 
forward by Tenet in the above case are the same as put forward  in this case.
In the above case the judge explained  that where a consumer has been advised to sell a 
regulated investment in order to make an unregulated investment or loan this would form a 
single piece of regulated  investment advice.  The above case  largely mirrors  that of Ms S. 
The consumers were  advised by Mr A to sell regulated investments in order  to invest  in an 
Indian property  and also to make two personal loans to Mr A. 
The judge  said the following:
I would have concluded, even had the Ombudsman  not, that the advice  to buy, to put it 
simply, though  taken  by itself and in isolation, was unregulated, was here all part and parcel 
of the advice to sell, and was "regulated". This is not a case  where the advice to sell arose 
Ref: DRN79271115from the need to dispose  of an underperforming or risky asset, whereafter the IFA would 
look for something better.  It is not simply that the advice was given at the same  time, or that 
the trades took place so closely in time. That helps to evidence  that the advice to buy was 
what led to the advice to sell. The advice  to sell was given so that the alternative unregulated 
investments could be made; they were compared,  and their advantages persuaded Mr and 
Mrs Thorpe to accept  the advice to sell. The advice, put simply was that, because  they could  
do better in unregulated investments, they should sell the specified investments. The advice  
on unregulated  investment  justified the advice  on the specified  investments, and in that way, 
became part of the regulated advice.  The Ombudsman was bound  to conclude  that they 
were part and parcel of the same advice. I conclude  that the whole advice  was regulated  
activity, and that the Ombudsman had jurisdiction.   
I am satisfied that the judges comments set out above are also applicable to this case. 
Without the surrender of the regulated  investments there could have been no unregulated 
Indian investment  or loans. It is therefore  correct in my view to consider the sell and the buy 
advice as being inextricably linked. Because of this linkage  the connected pieces of advice 
form a single piece  of regulated advice. The judge went on to say that if one piece of this 
advice was the responsibility  of Tenet  then it would be responsible  for the whole of the 
advice. 
Tenet accepts that it authorized its appointed representatives to give advice to surrender the 
regulated investments that Ms S held. In an email to this service  of 29 January  2016 Tenet  
said:
Subject to representations  previously made, Mr A was not restricted  in his ability to advise 
on the surrender  of investments insofar  as he could advise on the surrender of investments 
from any provider. 
Tenet therefore accepts  that the advice  to surrender the regulated investments is advice that 
it is responsible for. However, for the reasons set out above I am satisfied that Tenet  is 
responsible for all aspects  of the advice and not just the regulated  elements.
  
Therefore the second test as to jurisdiction has been met. I consider that a complaint about 
the advice to sell regulated investments  and reinvest/loan the money is one that we can look 
at.  
The suitability  of the advice that was given
It has been established by the courts that the Indian property investment was a fraudulent  
enterprise that never in reality existed. Advice to surrender  a suitable investment and 
reinvest in a fraudulent scheme can only be unsuitable advice.
On the advice of Mr A, Ms S sold regulated  investments and loaned  the money to him. 
Whilst some  interest payments were made these stopped and the loan hasnt been repaid. It 
isnt clear what Mr A did with the money  loaned to him - whether it was to fund his 
extravagant lifestyle and gambling debts or to pay interest to other investors who had loaned 
him money.  However, I consider it safe to assume  that there was a very real risk that this 
money would  never be repaid. As such advice to Ms S to surrender her existing suitable 
investments and to loan the proceeds to Mr A for his own fraudulent purposes was 
unsuitable advice.   
Ref: DRN79271116My provisional conclusion is that the advice Ms S received from Mr A to surrender regulated 
investments to invest in the Indian  fund or to loan money to him was unsuitable. Because  of 
this the complaint should be upheld. 
At the time of her dealings  with Mr A Ms S was approaching retirement. The money she lost 
represented the bulk of her savings. This was deeply upsetting for Mr S - as set out in her 
victim statement. I therefore propose  to award  Ms S £500 to compensate her for this.  
I also set out in my provisional decision how I thought Ms S should be compensated. I said 
that Tenet  should  calculate what Ms Ss investments would  be worth if they had not been 
surrendered and pay this sum to Ms S. The monthly retainer paid to Mr A by Ms S should  
also be repaid.
Neither Ms S or Tenet  had anything further  to add
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further  to add I confirm that for the reasons set out above this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
fair compensation
Had the advice  to surrender her regulated investments not been  given I consider  that Ms S 
wouldve remained in her existing investments.  But I recognise  that Ms S did receive  a return  
from some  of the arrangements Mr A put in place  so that will need to be taken account of. 
So, to work  out what compensation  should  be paid, Tenet should calculate what the 
amounts withdrawn would  now (i.e. at the date of this final decision) be worth, if they had 
remained invested as they were. Tenet  should  then take from that any amount that was paid 
to Ms S by Mr A. The resulting amount will be the compensation that is payable. 
I understand that Mr A has now been declared bankrupt.  I therefore  think it unlikely Ms S will 
recover any of their money through other means,  and will not make an allowance  for that. 
I also need to consider  whether compensation should be paid in relation to the £100 a month 
retainer paid to Mr A. Ms S paid this for ongoing advice. As set out above,  the advice that Ms 
S received was unsuitable. I have not seen any evidence that in the period from June 2010 
onwards Ms S received  any suitable investment advice. These retainers were  in effect 
payment for unsuitable investment advice. Because of this I consider that it is reasonable to 
refund the monthly retainers paid by Ms S. These  should be repaid (from June 2010 
onwards) and simple  interest at the rate of 8% a year added from the date Ms S paid them  to 
the date of repayment.
I understand Ms S has received a payment as a result of a November 2016 POCA hearing.  
It seems  very likely that Ms S will not be fully compensated by the proposed  award as full 
compensation will exceed the award  limit of the ombudsman service. I assume that Tenet  
will not accept the recommendation to pay the full award.   Because of this I consider that 
the POCA payment should not be taken into account in the calculation  set out above.  
Ref: DRN79271117my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
look at and that it should be upheld.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Tenet Connect 
pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that Tenet  Connect  should pay the 
amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including  distress 
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  set out above.
If Tenet Connect does  not pay the full fair compensation, then no deduction should be made 
for the POCA payment  received by Ms S.  
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Tenet Connect pays Ms S the balance  plus any interest  on the
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7927111