K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains about charges that PSA Finance UK Limited  applied  when her hire
purchase agreement  for a car came  to an end.
background
I set out the background  to Mrs Ys complaint in my provisional decision.  But I repeat it 
again, in summary,  below.
Mrs Y entered into a hire purchase  agreement with PSA in April 2015 for a car. The 
agreement was part of a promotion  run by PSA which was marketed under the name of just 
add fuel. The agreement  was due to run for 37 months and to end in May 2018.
However, Mrs Y told us that as far as she was aware, her agreement lasted 36 months.
Further, she said, she thought the just add fuel agreement  was an all-inclusive  contract. In
particular, she thought her monthly repayments  covered  all of her motor  insurance payments 
and any MOT that might be required. But towards the end of the contract, in the 35th month,
Mrs Y received a letter from PSA saying  she would  not be insured for the final month of the
agreement and the car needed a MOT and she had to pay for this.
Surprised by this turn of events, Mrs Y immediately decided she wanted  to end the
agreement early and contacted PSA to arrange  this. However, she said, first it told her this
was okay and told her to contact another part of the business to arrange this. But, then, 
when she did this, it would not accept the car back.  She told us it said it was too early to 
hand the car back, even  though she no longer wanted it as she couldnt drive it without 
insurance. And even  though she wasnt in a financial position  to take out a new insurance 
policy as well as maintain her repayments.
Later on, she called  PSA again  to try to arrange  collection  of the car but again, it wouldnt
accept the car back because it had not had its MOT. Her response was she was not meant
to pay for the insurance and the MOT  separately, as they were part of the all-inclusive
contract. But her protests got her nowhere. Rather,  she was told, if she wanted the car
collected, first she would need to get its MOT done.
Mrs Y was perplexed by this circular sequence  of events. Having made  no progress with
PSA, Mrs Y went  to the dealership instead. It told her she said, that this couldnt be correct
and it would sort this out with PSA. She waited two weeks,  but nothing  happened. It seems
she felt she had no choice  now but to get the MOT done. She did this and returned the car to
PSA via the dealership.
After this, and out of the blue, PSA contacted Mrs Y. It wanted  her to pay for, amongst other
things, damage repairs  and for the last month of the hire purchase agreement. Mrs Y wasnt
prepared to do this. As a compromise, she suggested shed pay for the last month provided
PSA agreed to reimburse  her for the MOT. PSA declined her offer. 
Mrs Y explained that all of this to and fro and finding out that the agreement was not what 
she thought it was, had worn  her out. She had mental health difficulties and the contact from 
PSA was just making this worse.
PSAs position was that all it had done was charge Mrs Y in line with the agreement  that she
had freely entered into. On that basis, it wasnt going to give her a refund as she wasnt
Ref: DRN72415332entitled to one. Further, it wanted  her to pay it what it said she owed it.
Dissatisfied with PSAs response,  Mrs Y came to our service.
I looked into Mrs Ys complaint in my provisional decision. I thought the contractual  terms 
dealing with insurance and the MOT  were  so unusual and caused  such  detriment to Mrs Y 
that they ought to have been brought to her attention before the contract  was made. In the 
circumstances, I was persuaded they had not been. Therefore, I found it wasnt fair and 
reasonable to allow  PSA to rely on these provisions.
Further, I was satisfied  that the contract had been misrepresented to Mrs Y by the credit 
broker and I thought PSA could fairly and reasonably be held accountable for this.
For all of these reasons I found  Mrs Y should not be asked to pay for the MOT  or the final 
month of the agreement.
As to the damage to the car. The agreement  said Mrs Y had to pay for damage that went  
beyond fair wear and tear. PSA had provided us with a report, that showed the damage to 
the car went  beyond wear  and tear. I realised that Mrs Y said shed  not caused this damage. 
But I thought given that she had the car for years  and PSA only had the car for a matter
of weeks before the report was done, it is more  likely than not that the damage  happened
when the car was in her possession, rather than in PSAs.  I thought  PSA was acting fairly 
and reasonably in charging her for this damage. Although I noted it had agreed to take 25% 
off the amount it had initially asked for.
I thought that PSA had caused Mrs Y avoidable  distress and inconvenience. It had made her 
go around the houses to return the car and it had treated  her unfairly  in relation to the terms 
of the contract  that shed not known about.  Mrs Y has mental  health  difficulties  and a home  
situation that she finds stressful and I thought that PSAs  actions could only have made  this 
already difficult situation worse. I thought  a payment of £400 was a fair and reasonable 
award.
I concluded that PSA should:  
1. Waive the final repayment  and stop pursuing Mrs Y for this. If it has registered anything
with the credit reference agencies about  this missing payment it must remove that
information and mark the agreement as settled.
2. Refund Mrs Y for the MOT she paid for. Plus, it must add interest on this refund at the
rate of 8% simple per year. The interest  to run from the date Mrs Y paid for the MOT
until the date of settlement.
3. Reduce the bill for the repairs by 25% as it has already agreed to do.
4. Pay Mrs Y £400 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited Mrs Y and PSA to respond  to my provisional decision. PSA said it had no further 
information to send us about this complaint. However, it thought the award  of £400 was too 
much. It wanted to me to confirm I meant  £400 and to give a further and better  explanation  
of my reasons for awarding  it. It said this amount was out of line with the awards  made in 
similar complaints.
Ref: DRN72415333Ive not been told that we have received any response from Mrs Y.
my findings
I thank PSA for its response to my provisional decision. I regret  that I have received no 
response from Mrs Y. We have tried on several  occasions to contact her. Ive considered  
again, all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have received no new information  from either party regarding the substance  of this 
complaint. Having looked at all of the information Ive got again,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. My reasons are the same as set 
out in that provisional decision and as I summarised above.
I am happy to confirm  that I did mean to award Mrs Y £400 for distress  and inconvenience.
PSA did not make  the terms of the contract  in relation to the MOT and the insurance  as clear 
as it should have done. Also, it is responsible for the contract being misrepresented  to 
Mrs Y. I think these  issues  alone would have caused Mrs Y quite a degree of distress and 
inconvenience.
But that is not all that PSA did. Mrs Y has told us her financial  situation was precarious, she 
had worries at home,  so I think she was in a vulnerable situation. And then it seems both 
parties agree that she got inaccurate information  on more than one occasion from PSA. As a 
result of which she was going  back and forth trying  to get a solution. When  PSA could simply 
have given her accurate  information in the first place. I was not as if her query was a 
complex one.
All of this I am satisfied left her worrying about  paying bills that she had no idea were  coming  
and which  she could  barely cover. Its not hard to imagine how that most likely made her 
feel. I also think this caused  her a great  deal of inconvenience. 
Im not sure what previous complaints PSA has in mind. But even if I had found such  a 
complaint, I would not be bound by my colleagues  decision in that complaint, because 
ombudsmens decisions are not binding precedents in the way that the courts decisions are. 
I am required to form my own view of this complaint, rather  than to follow  the views of others 
in other  complaints.
In the circumstances, for all of these reasons, I am satisfied that £400  is a fair and 
reasonable award.
my final decision
My final decision is that PSA Finance UK Limited  must: 
1. Waive the final repayment  and stop pursuing Mrs Y for this. If it has registered anything
with the credit reference agencies about  this missing payment it must remove that
information and mark the agreement as settled.
2. Refund Mrs Y for the MOT she paid for. Plus, it must add interest to this refund at the
rate of 8% simple a year. The interest to run from the date Mrs Y paid for the MOT
until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN724153343. Reduce the bill for the repairs by 25% as it has already agreed to do.
4. Pay Mrs Y £400 for distress and inconvenience.
I think it will help Mrs Y if PSA uses the money  I have ordered  it to pay in 2 and 4 above  to
settle the bill for the repairs. It then should pay her the balance.
PSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs Y accepts my final
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £400  from the date of my
final decision  to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple  a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7241533