K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that a used car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
background 
In July 2016 Mr W acquired a used  car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS. The car was four years old with a mileage of around  33,000  at the point of sale.
In June 2018 the air suspension bag failed and had to be repaired but within a short time the 
entire air suspension  system failed leaving Mr W facing a costly  repair.  Mr W enquired with 
the dealership  that had supplied the car about  returning it. This was declined  and so Mr W 
had the car repaired though the manufacturer also made a goodwill gesture towards the 
cost.
In December 2018 the cars engine cut out and Drivetrain fault appeared. The car had to 
be towed back to another dealership where an investigation was carried  out. This revealed 
that there  was swarf in the fuel system  and a quote  was given for replacing the entire  fuel 
system. Mr W was also advised that there was an outstanding recall on the car for a faulty 
exhaust gas recirculation  (EGR)  cooler.
Mr W complained  to BMWFS about the quality  of the car. BMWFS said that due to the length 
of time Mr W had now had the car there was no evidence it hadnt been  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale.
In January 2019 Mr W received the safety  recall notice for the car regarding the cars cooler 
for the EGR.  This safety notice said that this part may develop  a leak over its service life. 
Symptoms of this problem  included a Drivetrain warning message being  displayed to the 
driver and a loss of power  from the engine when driving. Mr W says he raised  this safety 
notice with the dealership that still had the car and was told that they had fixed it. Mr W says 
he wasnt provided with an invoice or job card for this work.
In March 2019 the car was still unusable so Mr W decided to have it towed to another 
garage for a second opinion. He agreed for the repairs to be carried  out at this garage. 
When he collected the car he was advised  to run it in and then bring it back  for checks.  
However, within a short  period of time the Drivetrain error message re-appeared and he 
returned the car to the garage.  
Mr W says the garage informed him that it had checked the error codes and this had 
confirmed there was an issue with the EGR  and not the fuel system. Mr W called  the 
manufacturer who said the car had not had any repairs to its EGR unit. Mr W also checked 
with the DVLA  which  said the same  thing. 
Mr W says he contacted  the dealership again  who said they would check whether the work  
required by the safety recall  notice had been  carried out. Mr W says he hasnt heard again 
from the dealership.
Mr W says he has chosen not to use the car again  as he was concerned about its safety. He 
says he lost faith with the dealerships and wants to reject the car. Mr W says he has had to 
purchase another car so that he could get about.
Ref: DRN70551122Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said that under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (The Act) goods that are supplied  must be of satisfactory  
quality. This meant  if they met the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  the age of the goods, general  state  and condition  and also 
the durability.
Our investigator said that with a used car it would be reasonable to expect some 
components to have  suffered some  wear and tear and there would be a greater risk that 
repairs would be required. But a reasonable person would expect the car to be durable for a 
reasonable period of time.
Our investigator said she didnt know whether the faults that had been repaired had arisen 
from wear or tear or were faults  with the car that had been  present  at the point of sale. But 
the car was subject  to a safety  recall notice that was still outstanding and that the symptoms  
the car was exhibiting  were the same  as those outlined in the recall notice. She said this 
suggested there were  underlying issues with the car from the point of sale and while  she 
appreciated Mr Ws complaint had occurred two years after hed acquired the car she didnt 
think a reasonable  person would have  expected  that taking into account  the age, mileage 
and cost of the car.
Our investigator said she was satisfied  that there had been an opportunity  for the dealership 
to look into the fault but it hadnt done so. And so she thought it was fair for Mr W to be able 
to reject the car. She recommended that the car was collected and the agreement ended  
with any deposit  paid reimbursed together with interest. Our investigator also recommended 
that BMWFS paid Mr W £150  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
for the multiple  visits to the dealerships  sorting out the issues with the car.
Mr W has agreed with our investigators suggested  solution to his complaint but BMWFS  
disagreed. It said the car had been four years old at the point of sale so there was a greater 
risk of faults developing  over time.  Mr W had been able to use the car for two years before 
problems arose. It says there was no evidence that the car had been  faulty  at the time Mr W 
had acquired it.
BMWFS also said that safety recalls were issued  to a number of vehicles within  a certain 
product range that the manufacturer felt might be impacted  by a fault. The notice didnt mean 
the car was faulty. It said Mr W could  take the car into a dealership and have the issue  
checked and repaired. BMWFS said this recall notice wasnt evidence that a fault had been 
present at the point of sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out under the Act a car must  be of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale.  And 
satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
relevant circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. Durability is also 
part of satisfactory quality as although  no one would expect  all the components of the car 
to last forever  they also wouldnt reasonably  expect  issues to arise with the car for a 
reasonable period of time.
Ref: DRN70551123And if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer  would have  
an opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful  then the consumer would be able to reject  
it.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ws car has an outstanding safety recall notice for the EGR 
module. Ive seen  the letter sent to Mr W in January 2019 and it says that following 
ongoing  quality analysis .it was determined  that that cooler  of the Exhaust  Gar 
Recirculation (EGR) module fitted to your vehicle may develop a leak over its service  
life. It then sets out a list of symptoms  that may be related to this problem. These 
include Drivetrain warning messages being displayed and the car losing power while  
being driven. Both of which were problems raised  by Mr W prior to this safety recall 
notice being sent to him.
I think its reasonable to say that this letter is highlighting a potential  inherent fault with 
the cars  EGR. I also think its fair to say that the part had been found by the 
manufacturer not to be as durable  as would reasonably be expected. So this would 
mean that the car couldve  been  developing a fault at the point of sale.
Mr W has had a number of repairs carried out to the cars suspension and fuel 
system. I agree with our investigator that there isnt enough evidence to say whether 
those repairs were  due to faults  with the car or wear and tear. I also accept a car of 
this age and mileage would need repairs from time to time and I think  a reasonable 
person would expect  them to arise.  So because of this I think  it would be 
unreasonable to require  BMWFS to reimburse  Mr W the costs  of the repairs  and 
investigations that have been  already  been undertaken.
However, the car still has a fault and Mr W has repeatedly raised the Drivetrain  
messages and loss of power issues before he even received the safety recall notice. 
In light of what the safety notice says and that Mr W was advised by the garage that 
the fault codes  were  related to the EGR I think its more likely than not that Mr Ws car 
has the fault with the EGR module that the manufacturer  highlighted. 
So I think its reasonable to say its likely the car has an inherent fault that was 
developing at the point of sale. And that the car wasnt  as durable as a reasonable 
person would expect  given  its age and mileage. So I think  its fair to say the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale,
However, the business should have an opportunity to repair a fault and that was the 
purpose of the safety recall notice. But I think the dealership has had this chance.  Mr 
W has contacted it about this notice on more  than one occasion but its response 
appears to have been confusing. I dont  think  it would  be fair for Mr W to have to take 
the car back  again  for this issue  to be looked into.
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. To resolve this 
complaint Im asking  BMWFS to cancel  the agreement with nothing  further  to pay and 
collect the car at no cost to Mr W. Im not going to ask BMWFS  to reimburse Mr Ws 
payments as he has had use of the car and I think he could have mitigated his losses 
for the period he hasnt used the car. I see he chose to buy another  car rather  than 
have this one repaired.
Ref: DRN70551124However, BMWFS  should reimburse  any deposit put down by Mr W for the car 
together with interest. I also think that dealing with the faulty car has caused Mr W 
distress and inconvenience and I think compensation of £150  is fair to reflect that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. To resolve this complaint Im 
asking BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited  to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr W.
Reimburse any deposit  put towards the car together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  dealing 
with the faulty  car
Ensure there is no adverse information  regarding this agreement  recorded on Mr Ws 
credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7055112