K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK PLC (trading as Cahoot) failed to investigate  or refund a 
transaction hes disputing.
background
On 2 December  2017, Mr B spent £24 on a takeaway. He went  to the restaurant to collect  it, 
but realised when he got home that it had got the order wrong. He says the restaurant 
offered to replace it if he went back in, but he wanted a refund instead   and it agreed.
Mr B says the restaurant didnt issue the refund. So he disputed  the transaction  with his 
card-provider, Cahoot. It rejected his claim.  When Mr B complained about this, it said the 
decision was made due to lack of evidence. Unhappy with its response, Mr B referred  the 
matter to our service. Our investigator was satisfied that Cahoot had acted fairly in 
investigating the claim. He didnt think it should refund the transaction.
Mr B was still unhappy that Cahoot hadnt made  enquiries with the restaurant.  He said the 
only evidence he had was his statement. I then reviewed the complaint and issued  a 
provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold  it. I said: 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs account  make  it clear that unauthorised transactions  will 
be refunded. Term  2.1.e  says:
Where you dispute  a transaction, if following our investigation, we find that you have 
not authorised  the transaction we will refund  the amount of the transaction  and 
restore the payment  account to the state  it would have been in had the transaction 
not taken place.
Mr Bs claim form makes it clear that he did authorise the payment. So Im not persuaded 
that hes entitled to a refund under the account  terms.
There are other reasons why I might expect  Cahoot  to refund the transaction. Under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  borrowers have the rightunder certain conditionsto  
make a like claim  against a creditor for misrepresentation and/or breach of contract  by the 
supplier. One of these conditions is that the cash price of the goods or service  being claimed 
for must be at least £100. As Mr Bs order came to £24, hes not eligible for a section 75 
claim.
Cahoot could  also have raised  a chargeback  for Mr B. This is a voluntary scheme whereby 
the card-scheme  provider  decides how to resolve  payment disputes. It doesnt appear that 
Cahoot raised a chargeback. It wasnt obliged to raise  one  but Id consider it good practice 
to have done so if the claim was likely to succeed.  Its down to the claimant  to provide 
evidence to support  their claim. So what I need  to consider is: based on the information Mr B 
provided, should Cahoot have raised  a chargeback?
In this instance, Mr B says the order was wrong.  And he was promised a refund over the 
phone. Under  the relevant  scheme rules,  the order not being as described or the restaurant 
not crediting an agreed refund are potentially valid reasons for a chargeback.  But it seems 
that Mr B didnt have  any evidence to substantiate  that his order was wrong. And he was 
offered a replacement  which Id consider a suitable remedy.  Additionally, he says a refund 
was offered over the phone  but didnt provide any record of this.
Ref: DRN77135552I say all of this not to call Mr Bs version of events  into question.  I appreciate why hes not 
able to provide  anything  further, and I have  no reason to doubt him. But Im not deciding 
whether the restaurant has done anything wrong; Im deciding whether the claim was likely  
to have succeeded under the relevant card-scheme rules. Due to the lack of independent  or 
contemporaneous evidence, Im not convinced it would have succeeded. Im therefore  
satisfied it was reasonable for Cahoot  not to attempt  a chargeback. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Cahoot considered Mr Bs claim  fairly  and reasonably. So
I wouldnt expect it to refund the transaction or compensate him.
Cahoot has accepted my provisional decision  but Mr B hasnt. He says the fact Cahoot 
didnt contact the vendor shows it didnt investigate properly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
Although Mr B thinks Cahoot shouldve contacted the restaurant, I havent seen anything  
which persuades  me that it was required to do so. Nor do I consider it likely  that hed be in a 
better position if it had done so. In my provisional decision I concluded that Cahoot  wasnt  
liable for the transaction   regardless of the information held by the restaurant. Thats 
because Mr B isnt alleging that he didnt  authorise  the transaction,  and Im satisfied that it 
didnt meet the criteria  for a section 75 claim. 
I have also considered whether Cahoot  shouldve done more to support Mr B in raising a 
chargeback claim  which may have enabled  him to obtain a refund from the restaurant.  As 
explained in my provisional decision,  I wouldnt expect Cahoot  to raise a chargeback  that 
was likely to fail. And ultimately,  although  Mr B thinks  Cahoot shouldve contacted the 
restaurant for further information, it was his responsibility to support his claim. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded that Cahoot shouldve requested anything 
further from the restaurant.  Save  for an admission of liability by the restaurant, I cant  see 
what else Cahoot couldve  requested to substantiate the claim. And I dont consider it likely 
that the restaurant wouldve provided such an admission at Cahoots  request. I say this 
because Mr B wasnt able to obtain  an admission  of liabilityor any other supporting 
evidencewhen he complained to the restaurant directly. If it had been willing to make this 
admission, its unlikely Mr B wouldve needed  to raise a claim with Cahoot in the first place. 
I therefore consider  it reasonable  that Cahoot  decided not to raise a chargeback  or contact 
the restaurant for more information. 
Overall, Ive decided that Cahoot considered Mr Bs claim fairly  and reasonably.  
Ref: DRN77135553my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713555