K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains, with the help of his father, that Santander UK Plc wouldnt let him have 
access to a £3,000 deposit in his bank account.
background
Mr N tells us he sold a car and the proceeds of that sale,  £3,000, were paid into his account 
in October 2018.  Santander asked him for proof of the source of the money. Santander  said 
he gave it a handwritten  proof of sale and entitlement to funds documentation . Mr N said 
he also provided the buyers  bank statement. But Santander wanted further confirmation of 
the source of the money. Mr N said he only had the car for eight days  and didnt transfer  
ownership into his name  and he didnt insure it. And hes not in contact with the buyer any 
more. So he couldnt  give Santander any more proof. Santander  closed his account in 
December 2018  with a closing balance  of £1.32 not including the £3,000  in dispute. But it 
accepted there were  some service failings  and it paid him a total of £130 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had been  unfair when it wouldnt let him have access  
to the £3,000 that had been deposited  into his account. He explained that banks such as 
Santander have  to follow certain  regulations. That means they can review  customers 
accounts and can stop access to certain funds until the customer  has given it enough 
information for them to be satisfied about the source  of the money.  And that is what has 
happened here. So he couldnt  ask Santander  to release the £3,000.
Mr N wasnt happy about this. His father said this wasnt Santanders money. Mr N said hed 
given Santander  the bank  statement of the account  from where  the money had come.  He 
said he was insured  on any account  up to £85,000 and waited details of how he could 
claim. He said £250 was also transferred  on the same day into his account  from the same  
person and there wasnt any problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres very little I can add.
Banks have various  legal obligations and have to follow certain  procedures  to comply with 
them. That means  they can ask a customer to provide evidence about where certain 
deposits have  come from. Mr N says hes given Santander what  he can and that it should be 
satisfied with that. But we cant tell a bank how it should carry out its legal  responsibilities. 
So we cant  tell it what documents it should accept before it can release  Mr Ns money. All I 
can say is that I dont think its acted unreasonably or unfairly in asking for more  information. 
The process Santander has set up to carry out its legal requirements  was triggered when the 
£3,000 was deposited into Mr Ns account. But it wasnt triggered  when  £250  was paid in 
from the same person  on the same  day. As Ive already said, we cant  tell a bank how to 
carry out its legal responsibilities so I cant comment on why the smaller deposit  didnt trigger 
Santanders process.
Mr N says he was insured on his account. I think he is referring to the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) which is a scheme  to protect  bank account holders  if their 
bank or building society stops trading. But it doesnt  apply  in Mr Ns situation.
Ref: DRN74188142I know Mr N will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons Ive given I cant fairly  
ask Santander  to let him have the £3,000.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418814