K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy at the way their mortgage account has been administered  by 
Santander UK Plc. In summary,  Santander  paid compensation for accounting  errors into the 
mortgage account, leaving it in credit. This has caused inconvenience  for Mr and Mrs M. 
They want  the account put back in the position  it was in before  Santander  paid the 
compensation into it. They also want compensation of £500  and for Santander to admit that 
its actions were wrong and potentially illegal.
background 
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with a business  which is now part of Santander. In October  
2018 Santander wrote  to Mr and Mrs M explaining that it had miscalculated their mortgage 
payments. 
Santander explained that Mr and Mrs M had overpaid by £1,452.02 because the bank had 
miscalculated the monthly repayments. As a result, it offered compensation which,  after tax, 
amounted to £756.77. Santander paid into the mortgage account, putting it in credit by 
£491.50.
On 9 October 2018 Santander explained  that, in order to retain the flexible benefits, the 
account needed to have  a minimum debit balance of £500.  Santander  said it would make the 
drawdown in 28 days if it didnt hear from Mr and Mrs M. 
In a letter dated 19 October  2018 Santander explained how the error on the account  had 
occurred and how the remediation compensation had been  calculated.
Mr M, whos dealt  with the complaint throughout, told Santander  on 10 October 2018 that he 
didnt want the compensation payment to be made  to the account, but Santander had 
already done this. Santander told Mr M hed need  to make a drawdown from the account to 
allow it to remain open. 
He was told that hed need to drawdown £991.50,  as this would then leave him with the 
minimum balance of £500 on his account. Mr M thought that put him in a worse position than 
he was in before,  because it left him owing  slightly more on the mortgage   as he said his 
balance was under  £500  before.
Santander promised  to look into this and call Mr M back. It didnt do so and on 7 November 
2018 a drawdown of £996.19 was made. Mr M complained, as this had been done without 
his permission. This left the account with a balance of £491.74. Santander said that, in order  
to put the account back into its original position, Mr M would need to transfer £239.42 back  
to the account.
Santander paid compensation  of £75 for customer service issues.  In its final response, when 
Mr and Mrs M were  asked  to pay £239.42 to the mortgage account, Santander also offered 
compensation of £50. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this and complained to us.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He was satisfied Santander had made  errors  
in the way it had dealt  with the remediation. He asked Santander to pay the £239.42 rather 
than expecting Mr and Mrs M to pay it. Santander agreed this was fair and confirmed that 
this superseded  the £50 previously offered. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept it. Mr M says that he 
Ref: DRN70819412thinks the complaint  has had only a cursory review, but he has provided no further 
evidence or arguments  other than those in his original complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats happened  here isnt in dispute   in trying to correct an accounting  error,  Santander  
made a bit of a hash of things and put Mr and Mrs M into the position where theyd lose 
flexible benefits  on their account.  Mr and Mrs M were  also caused some  inconvenience in 
trying to resolve the matter.
Im glad to see that Santander has accepted that its handling of the matter hasnt been up to 
the standard of service Mr and Mrs M should have received. There was poor communication  
and Santanders  letters were confusing at times. I can understand why Mr M was frustrated.
But because Santander has acknowledged  its errors, all I am required to do is to decide  
what is fair compensation for its mistakes.
Santander has agreed to credit the mortgage account with £239.42 in full and final 
settlement of the complaint.  Mr M wants compensation of at least £500  and for Santander to 
acknowledge that its actions were wrong  and potentially illegal.
In its letter  dated  15 November 2018 Santander  said that it was truly sorry for the 
inconvenience caused. And in its letter dated  6 December  2018 Santander said: I would 
also like to apologise for overlooking the call back when promised and appreciate  the 
inconvenience of having to contact  us instead. You believe  there  has been a lack of 
consistency in the way your account  has been managed and from reviewing  your concerns I 
agree that this matter could have been  handled  differently.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Santander has acknowledged its mistakes and 
apologised for them.  As the Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a court or a regulator, I dont 
have any power to determine whether  or not Santanders  actions  are potentially illegal. 
Beyond the poor service,  I havent  seen anything that I think  would amount to any regulatory 
breach, but that would be a matter  for the regulator, not the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As far as compensation is concerned,  I think a payment of £239.42  is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the inconvenience, trouble and upset caused  to Mr and Mrs M in trying  to 
resolve this matter. This is in addition to the £75 already  paid by Santander.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Santander UK 
Plc to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £239.42 for trouble and upset. 
If Mr and Mrs M want this payment made directly to them rather  than to the mortgage  
account, they will need to confirm this with Santander. In the absence  of such  confirmation 
Santander will make  the payment  into the mortgage account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Ref: DRN70819413Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7081941