K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains, with the help of his representative, that Lloyds Bank  PLC chased him for a 
debt of over £78,000  which he didnt owe.
background
Lloyds says it lent Mr Z £25,000 in 2009  which it paid into the joint account he held with his 
wife. He says theyve never had this money  and he says Lloyds told him in a recent  
telephone conversation that its a computer error.  This situation has affected his health and 
he wants £20,000 compensation. 
Lloyds said it applied  a hold on Mr Zs loan in 2011  but interest continued to grow on it. Due 
to an error  which  happened when it changed  its debt management system, the hold was 
removed and the debt was referred  to an agency  to collect repayment.  It apologised and 
said that it would waive the debt in full, delete  the loan record  from his credit file and pay him 
£200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience itd caused.
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds had done enough  to put matters right. She listened  to the 
phone calls and concluded the banks representative explained  that there were two systems 
errors. The first was that Lloyds didnt remove the hold in 2011. The second was that it was 
removed as a result of a move between debt management systems in 2018 which  led to it 
erroneously sending a letter to Mr Z demanding repayment. But she thought  the actions 
Lloyds had taken  to put this right were fair and reasonable.
Mr Z didnt  agree. He said he was going  to take court proceedings because of the breach of 
trust and the financial hardship he and his wife have suffered. But he would wait for the 
Ombudsmans final decision first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr Zs loan statements that it appears repayments  were made for over a year 
after the £25,000 was paid into his and his wifes bank  account. But I cant  see any 
repayments from the end of 2010.  And I can also see from Mr Zs joint account bank 
statements that the money was paid in and the majority of it withdrawn over the counter and 
by debit card a few days later.
I cant make  a decision on the circumstances around the loan application and what 
happened to the money  after the loan was granted as that would be a separate  complaint  
and could be time barred. If Mr Z wishes to pursue this the adjudicator  will explain the next 
steps to him. 
But I can say that, from the information the bank had, it wasnt  unreasonable  for it to proceed 
on the basis that the loan application had been processed correctly  and the money was due 
to be repaid under the terms of the agreement. 
 
Mr Zs representative  says the bank  has agreed there was a computer error. But Im satisfied 
that the mistake  the bank has accepted is that there was a systems error in processing  the 
debt. It didnt accept  that it didnt  give the loan to Mr Z in the first place.
Ref: DRN78730672Lloyds said it placed the loan on hold when arrears began to build up on the account.  It 
didnt manage  that process properly and eventually, sometime  in around 2017 or 2018  it 
passed the debt to an agency to collect. It said it shouldnt have done that. Its waived 
payment of the debt, adjusted Mr Zs credit  record. And its paid him £200 for the trouble and 
upset that its caused  him. I think thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances so Im not 
going to ask it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873067