K820x#14complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of the estate of Mr G, has complained  that the late Mr G was given 
unsuitable advice  to transfer his pension to a Qualifying Registered Overseas Pension 
Scheme (QROPS) in 2014. In addition, when  the QROPS value was paid out after the death  
of Mr G, a reduction was applied. Mrs G says that Mr G had been assured that 100% of the 
value would be paid out on death.  She believes that deVere and Partners (UK) Limited 
(DPL) are liable for these matters. 
 
background
My understanding is that the late Mr G transferred his pension  to the QROPS in 2014. Mrs G 
says that the late Mr G was advised  to do this by an adviser based  overseas, representing 
another business (not  DPL). That adviser later left that business  and joined  DPL.  After the 
death of the late Mr G, the QROPS was encashed.  A reduction was applied  by the QROPS 
provider. 
DPL provided a response to the complaint.  In summary it said:
The reduction was applied to the QROPS value because of the way in which it had 
been set up originally. DPL did not have any control  over that. DPL advised Mrs G 
not to surrender the QROPS but she surrendered on the advice of another  business. 
There was an error  in respect  of some of the pension values Mrs G was supplied 
with. She was provided with a figure of about  £332,000 in a letter  of 28 November 
2018. The correct  amount  was about £327,000. The correct amount was paid out.
The pension could  not continue in Mrs Gs name because of the way the plan was 
set up at outset. It was possible to change the plan basis  before Mrs Gs return  to the 
UK, but this was not done.  Mr and Mrs G did not start dealing  with DPL until after 
their return  to the UK  and by that point it was too late to change  the plan basis.  If 
Mrs G had been added as a life assured then it would have been treated as a full 
surrender and the reduction would have  applied in any event. 
It does not believe  its actions have caused  Mrs G distress  or inconvenience. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint but did not uphold  it. He explained 
that the advice  to transfer the plan to the QROPS had not been given by DPL,  as the adviser 
involved was not its representative at the time. He was representing another business. He 
joined DPL later. He also thought that DPL had not given any misleading information about 
the amount that would be supplied on death. He discussed a report  provided by DPL in 2017 
that set out a reduction would be applied. And he set out that DPL was not in control of the 
reduction that would  be applied  by the QROPS provider and it could not arrange the waiving 
of the surrender reduction.    
Mrs G asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the further submissions  Mrs 
G has made since the investigators  assessment.
Ref: DRN76216222the transfer of the pension  to the QROPS
The evidence I have  seen  shows  that the advice to transfer was given when the adviser  was 
acting for another business.  
As the investigator  set out in his assessment, DPL was not the business  that advised  the 
late Mr G to transfer his pension. The responsibility for that advice remains  with the business  
for which the adviser was working  when he gave that advice. The business the adviser  was 
working for at the time takes responsibility for the advice, not the individual  adviser. Whilst 
the adviser joined DPL after the advice was given, this does not mean that the responsibility  
or liability for that advice follows him to DPL or that DPL then takes responsibility for it. 
What this would also mean is that if the late Mr G was misled by the adviser at this time 
about the sum that would  be supplied on death,  then this business would also be 
responsible for that.  
So Mrs G would need to complain to the business that the adviser was representing at the 
time the advice was given. 
the reduction applied  to the pension
The evidence is that the adviser continued to provide  advice and guidance to the late Mr G 
after he moved to DPL.  The material  issue is whether  he gave misleading advice or 
information about the sum that would be supplied on death whilst he was representing DPL.  
As the investigator  set out, Mrs G refers  to statements made  by the adviser or employees  of 
the business he was representing  at the time, in 2014. He was not representing DPL at this 
time and so DPL would not have responsibility  for these  statements. 
In terms of the information or advice provided by the adviser when he was representing  DPL, 
I have not seen that misleading information about the value that would be supplied on death 
was provided. 
The DPL report dated 13 October 2017 that the investigator referred to does set out that a 
significant reduction will apply. It sets out the value of the QROPS and then the reduction 
that would  apply if a surrender was made. This reduction was more than eventually  
deducted due to a higher pension value at this time. The report  also set out the charges 
being applied  to the QROPS by the provider. 
So DPL did set out what reduction would apply and did not supply any misleading 
information. I have  not seen  any other evidence that DPL led the late Mr G or Mrs G to 
believe that a reduction would  not apply. 
It has been discussed that adding  Mrs G as a life assured to the plan could have allowed the 
plan to continue   thereby avoiding the surrender reduction. However, I believe  DPL are 
correct that this could  not have been  done  whilst Mr and Mrs G were in the UK and being  
advised by DPL  because  of applicable pension regulations. If Mrs G was added by DPL it 
would have triggered the surrender reduction in any event. In addition  DPL did not 
recommend the surrender of the plan  which triggered the reduction to be applied. I have 
considered Mrs Gs further submissions as to whether DPL could have done more or offered 
further advice  considering  the late Mr Gs situation.  But I dont believe it could have 
materially altered the situation that occurred  after the late Mr G unfortunately passed away.
Ref: DRN76216223I also note that there was some incorrect information  provided  about the surrender value to 
be supplied  but this was corrected and the correct amount  has been paid out.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621622