K821x#15complaint
Mr S  on behalf of Company C  complains  that Metro Bank  PLC ought to pay him 
significant compensation, interest and costs  following an act of fraud on his business 
account. 
background
Mr S was the victim of a scam and had £20,000 taken from his companys  account with 
Metro Bank  on 11 August  2017. They were able to recover £7,297.99 from the beneficiary 
bank, which  they paid back to Company Cs account  on 12 October 2017. But the remaining 
£12,702.01 could not be recovered and, having investigated the fraud,  Metro  Bank  initially  
did not consider  they were liable to refund  the money that had been taken. 
Mr S instructed a third-party representative  to assist him in challenging Metro Banks 
decision as he considered they were  liable to repay the outstanding amount.  He brought his 
complaint to this service  in October 2017  and Metro  Bank subsequently  agreed to refund the 
remaining funds in August 2019.  However,  they mistakenly paid the entire amount of 
£20,000 instead of the £12,702.01  that ought  to have been paid after factoring in the amount 
they had already refunded  in October  2017.  
Metro Bank  have requested that Mr S return the £7,297.99  mistakenly paid to Company  C. 
However, Mr S has not yet returned  this amount. He submits  that Metro  Bank  should  pay 8% 
interest on the entire amount  of £20,000 that was taken, as well as covering the £1,300  he 
incurred in costs  through  instructing his third-party  representative to assist  him in recovering 
his money. Mr S also submits  that Metro Bank ought to pay significant compensation due to 
the detrimental impact  their handling  of the matter has had on his health and his business, 
and that they should  cover his loss of earnings  over the period in question.  
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ss complaint. He agreed  that they should pay 8% interest, but 
only on the £12,702.01 they initially failed to refund rather than the full £20,000. He also 
recommended that they pay £500 compensation for the inconvenience that was likely 
caused to his business. But he considered that Mr S would be liable to repay the £7,297.99 
that he was overpaid  by Metro Bank,  so he recommended  that the award of interest and 
compensation be deducted  from the amount owed rather than being  payable by the bank. 
The investigator also did not think it would be fair to ask Metro  Bank  to cover the fees 
charged by his representative, as he didnt think it was necessary for Mr S to be 
professionally represented  in order to bring  a complaint to Metro  Bank  or this service. 
Metro Bank  accepted the investigators  proposals. Mr S disagreed,  so the matter  has been  
passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Costs
Mr S submits that the costs he incurred in submitting  his complaint to Metro Bank and this 
service should be reimbursed, as he says the money would not have  been  refunded  without 
the involvement of the third-party representative.  The power to award costs is set out in the 
Ref: DRN74511802rules that govern our procedures. The guidance to the relevant rule is set out in the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook (DISP 3.7.10) which states:
In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, so awards of costs  are unlikely to 
be common.
I appreciate this guidance talks about  the costs involved in bringing a complaint  to our 
service. But our service also takes the same approach  to considering  any costs involved in 
appointing professional advisers to make  a complaint to a business  in the first instance. And 
the Financial Ombudsman Service only awards  compensation for such professional fees 
where, in the ombudsmans view, it was necessary for the consumer to have incurred these 
fees in order to bring the complaint, which I do not consider  it was.  
I appreciate that Metro  Bank initially declined to refund the full amount to Company Cs 
account, and that it took quite some time for the refund to eventually  be agreed.  But I do not 
consider that this necessitated the appointment of a professional representative, as Mr S 
could have brought a complaint to Metro Bank himself in this regard (and subsequently to 
our service  after remaining dissatisfied  with their response)  without  incurring any fees. 
Mr S also submits that it was only as a result of his representatives involvement that his 
money was refunded. But Im not persuaded  this was the case, as Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that his money would not have eventually been refunded if he was not 
professionally represented.  This office  considers complaints  in line with relevant law, 
regulations and good industry practice  irrespective of how the case  is presented.  And if 
Metro Bank  decided not to refund Company Cs money in circumstances where  they should 
have, we would have asked them to put things right by doing so (again, irrespective of how 
the case was presented  by either  side).  So I do not accept that Company C would not have 
had its money reimbursed if Mr S had not been professionally  represented. 
As Mr S could have  brought his complaint to both Metro Bank and this service  without  the 
use of professional advisers, I do not consider it appropriate to make a costs  award  in these 
circumstances. 
Interest
Given that Company  C has already had £7,297.99 refunded in October 2017, I do not 
consider there to be any fair or reasonable basis in which to ask Metro Bank to award 
interest on the full amount of £20,000  that was fraudulently taken from its account. However, 
I accept that the company was wrongfully  deprived of the remaining £12,702.01  that Metro  
Bank ought to have  refunded, and that they did not include any interest in the amount paid in 
August 2019.  So I consider that they should  pay 8% simple interest per year on this figure up 
until the date it was refunded. Metro Bank have agreed to this proposal and have calculated 
the interest to equate to £2,079.65. But given that Mr S would be legally obliged  to make 
restitution of the £7,297.99 if it was mistakenly  overpaid by Metro Bank, I consider it would 
be fair and reasonable for this amount to be deducted from the amount owed by Mr S rather  
than it being directly payable by Metro  Bank.  
Compensation
Mr S submits that Metro  Banks handling  of the matter has caused significant distress  and 
inconvenience and has caused his health  to deteriorate to such an extent that he was 
Ref: DRN74511803hospitalised and now has to take regular  medication. He says that they should pay a 
significant amount  of compensation  and should also cover the losses his company sustained  
and his loss of earnings throughout the period they refused to refund the money. 
In terms of Company  Cs losses,  Mr S has not provided any contemporaneous evidence to 
demonstrate what losses were sustained. So I cannot reasonably make an award for 
damages in the absence  of any such evidence. 
Im also sorry  to hear about  the impact  this has had on Mr Ss health, and I appreciate how 
difficult this time must have been  for him. However,  as pointed out by the investigator, the 
eligible complainant in this instance  is Company  C given that the money was taken from its 
account. And given  that Company C is a separate legal entity from Mr S, I can only make an 
award for the inconvenience that Metro Banks actions  (or inactions) have had on the 
business rather than the distress  caused to Mr S personally. 
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the inconvenience caused by Metro Bank. Given  the size of Company C, I 
consider that the business would  have likely  been inconvenienced by the loss of the money 
that Metro Bank failed  to refund for over two years, as well as the absence  of Mr S as its 
director following the deterioration of his health. And having taken this into consideration, I 
consider the amount of £500 recommended by the investigator to be fair compensation  in 
the circumstances, and a proportionate reflection of the inconvenience  that was likely 
suffered by Company C. 
So I will not be directing  Metro Bank to award any further amount. And for the reasons 
outlined previously, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for them to deduct this amount 
from the money that is owed to them rather than it being payable directly to Company C. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Deduct 8% simple interest  per year on £12,702.01 (from the date of the withdrawal of 
the funds to the date of settlement) from the amount  owed by Company C.
Deduct £500  compensation from the amount owed by Company C in recognition  of 
the inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S  on behalf of 
Company C  to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7451180