K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined her claim
for subsidence under her landlord  insurance policy.
All references to RSA include their appointed agents.
Background
Mrs C owns a property which she rented out. In November  2017, her tenants noticed  the
floor in the conservatory had lowered. Mrs C submitted  a claim for subsidence to RSA in
January 2018,  and it appointed a contractor to investigate the cause of the damage.
RSA declined Mrs Cs claim as it said the cause of the subsidence was due to defective
foundations of the conservatory. It said the foundations were too shallow to mitigate the clay
soil shrinkage underneath.
During the investigation, RSAs contractor highlighted an issue with Mrs Cs drains and a
second claim was set up to investigate the cause. RSA declined  this claim as its
investigations found the drain itself had not been installed correctly, which had caused the
soil pipe to dip.
Mrs C complained about RSAs decision to decline both claims. She said that RSA hadnt
done enough investigations to decline  the claim for faulty workmanship or show that her
claims werent valid. RSA responded to Mrs C and maintained its position for both claims.
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mrs C complained  to our service. She said her tenants  gave
notice in December  2018 and moved out because  of the distress  and upset caused  by the
ongoing claim. Mrs C said as a result  of her claim being declined  she has had the
conservatory restored  at great expense to herself.  But she said she hadnt been able to get
anyone in to do a quote or to do the work  to repair the soil pipe.
Mrs C added she had tried a number of specialists, and one had said the pipe had dipped
through subsidence and needed sorting  straight  away. Mrs C says that RSA are assuming 
this pipe is faulty but dont  have evidence of it. And she said that by not doing any further
inspections, RSA havent followed the correct  procedure  in dealing with her claim.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She
found RSA had done sufficient investigations  to show the problem was due to the defective
design of the foundation of the conservatory, and also that the drain  pipes hadnt  been
installed correctly. Our investigator said that if it could be established the ground movement
had been caused by something else which was covered by Mrs Cs policy,  then RSA would
consider it.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators findings.  She said nothing had been investigated
with regard to the underground pipes apart  from a camera being sent up them.  She said she
had never  had problems with pipes  in the past and asked how RSA could be sure that it
wasnt tree roots causing  the damage.
Our investigator responded and referred Mrs C back to RSAs  expert report.  She explained
that if the damage to the pipes was solely down to tree roots, then our service would expect
RSA to deal with it accordingly. But based on what she had seen, she was persuaded the
Ref: DRN79386982evidence showed  the pipes werent installed correctly, so it was fair for RSA to decline the
claim.
The complaint was referred  to me and on 12 May 2020, I set out in my provisional decision 
why I felt RSA should accept Mrs Cs claim and reimburse her for the repair  work which has 
now been carried out. Ive repeated an extract below:
Claim for damaged drain pipes
Ive considered the expert reports and Mrs Cs testimony in order  to determine  if RSA have
fairly declined her claim for the damaged drain pipes.
Mrs C says she hasnt had any problems  with the drains since she bought  the property. And
Ive no reason to doubt her testimony  here.  But an insurer is entitled to rely on an exclusion if
it does enough  to show that exclusion applies.  In this case, the exclusion RSA is relying on
in Mrs Cs policy states Damage caused  by A) its own faulty design or defective  materials.
The exclusion falls under the section  10 of the policy which  covers  Any other accident.
Mrs C made  the claim on the recommendation of the first contractor who attended  the
property. RSA then sent out a drain  specialist who provided their own report.
The report  states  the CCTV survey showed a section being found  to be bellied from 2.0m
through to 9.3m.  The report goes on to say, the bellied section of pipework suggests there
to be insufficient  granular bedding material which has allowed the pipework to slump.
I appreciate Mrs Cs comments  about not being able to get anyone in to repair the pipe, and
Ive considered that one of these did mention subsidence as a possible cause. But in this
case my role is to determine  if RSA has declined the claim fairly, not to determine the actual
cause of the pipe failing.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I am persuaded by the expert reports, which  state the
damage to the pipe was down to the way it was laid, and as such  ruled  out Accidental
Damage as a cause.  I dont think it would be reasonable  to require RSA to carry out further
investigations once  it determined the damage wasnt an insured event under Mrs Cs policy.
So I dont  intend  to require it to do anything  further in regard to the claim for the damaged
drain pipes.
Ive also not seen anything from the reports to suggest the subsidence  in the conservatory
contributed to the damage of the pipes. I say this as the first contractor  who attended the
property stated, whilst the leaking drains are not a factor in the movement of the property it
would be prudent  to repair them.  So I will address Mrs Cs claim for the conservatory floor
as a separate issue.
Claim for conservatory floor
RSA has relied on an exclusion to decline Mrs Cs subsidence  claim. Mrs Cs policy terms
state under  what is not covered Defective construction  or designDamage,  caused by or
arising faulty workmanship, design or materials.
So, in order for RSA to decline  Mrs Cs claim fairly, it needs to show this exclusion applies.
Ive considered if any building regulations and/or requirements applied at the time the
extension was built in 2002. The Building  Regulations  2000 are the closest  regulations I can
Ref: DRN79386983see to the 2002 construction  date,  and state under Schedule  2 that Exempt  Buildings  and
Work includes The extension of a building by the addition at ground level of  (a) a
conservatory, porch,where  the floor area of that extension does not exceed 30m2. So I
cant see any building regulations that apply  here.  However, I will still take into account good
industry practice, and what would  have been considered  a reasonable foundation at the time
the conservatory was built to decide  if RSA have shown the foundations  were defective.
I asked RSA which regulations it relied on to decline Mrs Cs claim, and as it said the
foundations were too shallow, how deep did it think they need to be? I also asked it to
explain how the regulations werent  met at the time Mrs Cs conservatory was built, and what
evidence it had that the builder needed  to be held to these  regulations or requirements at the
time the conservatory  was built.
RSA responded  and attached a table of guidelines attributed to a certain builder of new
homes  who Ill refer to as N  from 2000.  It said that based on the nearby vegetation, the
foundations of the conservatory should have  been at least  3.07m.
RSA added that the building  regulation  guidelines  showed the foundations of the
conservatory should have been  at least 1m, and deeper where vegetation  is present based
upon the subsoil identified. RSA said the site investigations identified  the depth  of the
conservatory foundation is 1.1m, compared to the foundations  of the main house which has
foundations to a depth of 2.5m. RSA didnt comment on how the builder  needed to be held to 
these regulations or requirements at the time the conservatory was built.
Having considered RSAs response, Im not persuaded it has shown the exclusion for
defective design or faulty workmanship applies here.  I think  it has relied on building
regulations which dont apply to conservatories,  and the requirements  it has stated are
designed to apply to new build properties covered by Ns guarantee. In other words, only
builders that work for N must follow the requirements. Mrs Cs conservatory  was built
separately to the main  property and as such the requirements quoted would not have  been
relevant to the builder at all.
Ive taken into account that the main property  foundations go down to 2.5m,  and based on
the evidence Ive seen, have never been  prone to subsidence since the property was built.
I also think that RSA has relied  on a number of investigations which happened after the
conservatory was built (such as the soil sampling in 2018), and as such  have relied  on the
benefit of hindsight to show the underlying  root network around Mrs Cs property.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think a foundation depth of 1.1m for the conservatory was
reasonable, in line with good industry practice, and complied with the spirit of the regulations
at the time it was built. If the conservatory had started to subside soon after being built then
this would indicate there was an issue with the ground conditions and/or design.  But the
subsidence has occurred  more than 15 years after it was built, so I dont think it is
reasonable to say the foundations didnt take into account the soil conditions at the time.
I think that for RSA to decline the claim fairly for defective  foundations it either  needed to
show Mrs C knew  there  were underlying  problems  with the soil at the time the conservatory
was built, and didnt  take the conditions into account, or that the planning and design
process was inherently defective. And from everything Ive seen Im not persuaded it has
shown either  of these  things. So in summary, I dont  think it was fair or reasonable for RSA
to rely on the defective construction or faulty  workmanship, design,  or materials  exclusions
to decline Mrs Cs claim.
Ref: DRN79386984As RSA has confirmed there is an insurable  event from subsidence caused by clay-soil
shrinkage, it now needs to accept  Mrs Cs claim and reimburse  her for the reasonable costs
she has incurred in repairing her property. It would be helpful if Mrs C could provide a list of
costs and invoices  for the repairs in response to my provisional decision, along with any
other evidence of costs  she feels she incurred. I will then consider this before issuing my
final decision.
Compensation
Mrs C has said that this claim  has had an impact on her health and caused her a great deal
of worry and stress. She has also said her tenants  gave notice on the property in December
2018 and moved  out as a result of the inconvenience of the ongoing claim.
When considering  compensation here,  Ive considered RSAs actions as a whole, and the
impact to Mrs C by declining her subsidence claim.  I havent  seen any evidence of any
avoidable delays  during  the course of the claim. It appears that RSA responded to Mrs Cs
concerns and carried out two separate investigations to determine if her claims should be
accepted. This seems  a proportionate  response to the issues  with Mrs Cs property.
But I think RSA declined  Mrs Cs claim for subsidence unfairly and this did have an impact
on her. I acknowledge that Mrs Cs tenants  gave notice and moved out as a result  of the
ongoing claim. However, it is possible the tenants  could  have moved  out in any case
because of the repairs required,  and I note that Mrs C decided  to move  back into the
property, and as such has mitigated any further  loss of rental income. However,  Mrs C was
left to sort the repairs to the conservatory  herself and at her own expense. So there  would
have been a degree of inconvenience  in arranging  the repair  works.
So based  on the disruption  caused  to Mrs C and the inconvenience of arranging the repairs
herself, I am intending  to require RSA to compensate her £500.
Developments
Mrs C responded and provided  some further evidence about the stress she had suffered in 
dealing with the claim and covering the expense of the repairs herself. She added that living  
on her own meant she had no-one  to help with the claim, so it was an extremely stressful 
period of time for her.
RSA rejected my decision. In summary, it said:
It believed the contractor used a standard  footing of circa  1m for all projects. So they 
didnt take the specific  site conditions  into account or assess them before building  the 
conservatory;
Although it agreed the conservatory wasnt subject to building regulations or Ns 
requirements, it would have expected the conservatory installer  to make a specific  
assessment of the site to assess its individual requirements rather  than a one size 
fits all approach;
Ref: DRN79386985Mrs C had a duty of care to engage  a competent and capable  contractor.  If an 
assessment had been done  the footings  should have been taken to a depth reflective  
of the house foundations and depth  of roots otherwise the structure was always  
destined to fail;
Because of this, it doesnt matter that the structure has remained  unaffected for a 
reasonable period of time. In addition the subsidence was triggered  by an event 
year (i.e. the climate made  the ground  conditions more susceptible to movement), 
and the foundations are still considered to be inadequate;
Because the contractor used a standard foundation, the insurers  will be required  to 
potentially provide Mrs C with betterment if deeper foundations are required.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint. And Ill explain why RSAs response hasnt changed  my mind  about what Ive 
seen.
RSAs main argument here is that the contractor used standard circa  1m footing for all their 
building projects,  so didnt take the specific ground  conditions into account for Mrs Cs 
conservatory and tailor the foundations  to match.  But RSA still hasnt said what it deems to 
be a necessary depth for the foundations,  now that its agreed buildings  regulations and Ns 
requirements dont  apply. Its also not provided  any evidence to support the allegation  the 
contractor used a standard  footing for the project.  Based on the evidence Ive seen,  it could 
be argued the contractor  did do an assessment of the site and decided  a 1.1m footing was 
suitable for the ground conditions at the time.
Such an argument is subjective here.  So in order to make  my decision Ive again considered 
the building  regulations at the time, with specific reference to the code of practice  referenced  
within that applies to foundations. The code of practice BS8004  states,  shallow 
foundations should never be adopted  in any cohesive soil without careful  consideration of 
the vertical and horizontal movements that can occur due to moisture  content  changes.  It 
goes on to state, Under such conditions the strip foundations of traditional  brick and 
masonry buildings should be founded  at a minimum depth of 900 mm below finished ground  
level in order to reduce  the relative  movement  to acceptable limits.
So, whilst all parties agree the conservatory  itself isnt subject to building regulations, the 
1.1m foundations depth is beyond that stated in the regulations that applied  at the time. So I 
cannot see how the foundations can be classed as defective in this case. In order  to so, I 
would need to see evidence of what a specific site analysis would have shown at the time 
and why a 1.1m foundation was unreasonable in the circumstances. As such, RSA needs  to 
accept this as a valid claim for subsidence.
RSA has said the subsidence was triggered  by an event year, and that putting in deeper 
foundations would amount to betterment.  But I havent seen  anything  here that would be 
different to a standard subsidence claim. Ultimately, RSA as the insurer is responsible  for 
providing Mrs C with an effective and lasting repair to her structure  in the event of a valid 
claim. So as I think the claim  should  be accepted, RSA should reimburse Mrs C for all 
reasonable repair costs associated  with an effective and lasting repair. Mrs C should provide 
Ref: DRN79386986RSA with evidence  of these costs as soon as is practical to allow it to calculate  the 
settlement.
RSA hasnt commented on the award  of compensation I suggested in my provisional 
decision. Having  considered everything again,  including Mrs Cs comments, I still feel a 
payment of £500  is fair for the trouble and upset  caused, and for the same reasons as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc must put 
things right by:
Reimbursing Mrs C for the reasonable costs she incurred in repairing her 
conservatory, subject  to satisfactory evidence being provided of the work completed, 
and in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy;
Pay simple interest  of 8% per year on the sums  above, from the dates the payments 
were made by Mrs C, to the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs C £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2020.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7938698