K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them  two protection  policies  a 
Mortgage Repayment Protector (PPI) policy and a Mortgage Protection Plan with Critical 
Illness.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr 
and Mrs As complaint  about the mortgage protection plan should  be upheld.  In summary, 
this was because  it was a requirement of their mortgage to have life cover in place. And I 
thought the additional  critical illness cover was suitable for them.  I also explained that I 
thought HBSCs offer in relation to the PPI policy  was fair.
HSBC responded  to say it didnt have any further representations to make.  Mr and Mrs A 
also responded. They didnt agree with what Id said. In summary they said:
-Had either of them  been diagnosed with a critical illness they would  have lost their 
home anyway. The healthy partner would  have been  responsible for the others full 
time care, which means they wouldnt  be able to work at their business.  So although 
their mortgage repayments would have  been met, they were still at risk of losing their 
home to the creditors they wouldnt have been  able to pay.
-They realised at a later date they had options for life insurance when an HSBC  
adviser mentioned  that all they needed  was a basic life insurance  policy. So they 
cancelled the mortgage protection plan and arranged a much  cheaper policy.
-They feel let down  by HSBC as it knew they were self-employed  and they both 
worked at their business.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think Mr and 
Mrs As complaint about the mortgage protection plan should  be upheld.
I understand the point Mr and Mrs A have made about there  still being  a chance they could 
lose their home, even with the critical illness cover. But it seems to me that this would be the 
worst case scenario.  I still think having  cover that would  completely repay  their mortgage if 
one of them was seriously ill, would be useful.  While  theyd still have their business  to worry 
about, they would have  one less expense, as they wouldnt have to make any further 
mortgage repayments. And if the worst did happen  and they had to close  their business, it 
would mean  they had a mortgage-free asset to use towards any debts.
The mortgage protection plan with critical illness cover wouldnt have been  the cheapest 
option for Mr and Mrs A to fulfil the requirement  to have life insurance to arrange the 
mortgage  Im sure they could have got a life cover  only policy  for considerably less. As I 
said in my provisional decision, the critical illness cover did come  at an extra  cost. 
But in 1997,  when HSBC recommended they take out the mortgage protection  plan, keeping 
costs as low as possible doesnt seem to have been  a priority. Based on what  Mr and Mrs A 
Ref: DRN70307462told HSBC about  their income and expenditure, the plan including critical illness cover does 
seem to have been affordable and as Ive already explained, I think  they had some need  for 
the cover  it provided. So I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation for them.
I do have sympathy for Mr and Mrs As situation, particularly the difficulties theyve had since 
the plan was sold. But I dont think the mortgage  protection plan was mis-sold. So HSBC 
doesnt have to refund the money Mr and Mrs A paid for it. 
HSBC has already refunded the money Mr and Mrs A paid for their PPI policy. And I think 
this is a fair way to resolve this part of their complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about the mortgage protection  plan. And the 
compensation HSBC  UK Bank Plc has already paid in relation to the PPI policy  is fair. I dont  
award anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70307463provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold them two protection  policies  a Mortgage 
Repayment Protector (PPI) policy and a Mortgage Protection Plan with Critical  Illness.
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs A arranged  a mortgage with HSBC.  At this time they were  sold a joint Mortgage 
Protection Plan with Critical Illness. This had a sum assured of £50,000 and term of 25 years to match  
the mortgage. It would repay the mortgage if either Mr or Mrs A died or were  diagnosed with certain 
serious illnesses. 
They were also sold a PPI policy. Since the complaint was referred  to us, HSBC  agreed to refund the 
premiums Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI, plus interest. A cheque was sent to them in December 2014 
in settlement of this part of their complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint about the mortgage protection  plan should be 
upheld. Because Mr and Mrs A didnt agree,  the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs As complaint  about their PPI policy appears to have been resolved because HSBC  has 
refunded all the money they paid towards  it, plus interest.  Although our adjudicator said HSBC had 
made a further offer in relation to the commission  they paid,  this was wrong.  Because Mr and Mrs A 
have already had all the money back for the PPI, HSBC doesnt have to pay them anything  further. So 
my decision  will focus on the sale of the mortgage  protection plan.
HSBC explained that it was a requirement to have suitable life cover in place  when arranging an 
HSBC mortgage. HSBC  is allowed to decide what basis it wants  to lend to a customer. If it decides  to 
make certain  types  of insurance a condition of getting  a mortgage, then theres  nothing  wrong  with it 
doing this. So Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have been able to have the mortgage  at all if they hadnt taken 
out this cover  they didnt  have any similar cover in place  already. 
I think  its likely Mr and Mrs A understood the life cover was compulsory  as its referred to in the 
paperwork from the time. And they went ahead and took out the mortgage on that basis. If they hadnt 
wanted to take out the cover, they wouldnt have been able to get a mortgage with HSBC  and were 
free to arrange a mortgage elsewhere.
The mortgage  protection plan sold to Mr and Mrs A didnt just provide  life cover, it also included  
critical illness cover. Critical illness cover wasnt  a requirement of the mortgage and came at an extra 
cost, so HSBC should have made sure it was right for them before recommending they take it out.
If either Mr or Mrs A had been diagnosed  with a serious illness, I think its likely they would have 
struggled to make their mortgage repayments. They  might have been unable to work and as they ran 
their own business, its likely  to have impacted  on their earnings. So cover that would repay their 
mortgage in this situation  seems like it would have been useful.  It would  mean  they wouldnt have to 
worry about  keeping up with the repayments and give them  peace of mind  that they wouldnt lose 
their home.  They had two young children, so it seems that this might have been important to them.
Mr and Mrs A didnt have any existing arrangements that would repay their mortgage if either of them  
were seriously ill. So I think they had a need for this type of cover. As Ive said, it did come at an extra 
cost and Mr and Mrs A have  said they ended up cancelling the mortgage protection plan in November 
Ref: DRN703074641999 because they couldnt afford it. But based on the information they gave HSBC in 1997 about  
their income  and expenditure,  it looks like it was affordable at that time.  I appreciate their 
circumstances might  have changed over the following years but HSBC couldnt have known that was 
going to happen.
I currently dont think the mortgage protection plan was mis-sold. So HSBC  doesnt have to refund the 
money Mr and Mrs A paid for it.
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about the mortgage protection  plan. And the 
compensation HSBC  Bank Plc has already  paid in relation to the PPI policy is fair and I dont award 
anything further.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030746