K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1993 in connection with a mortgage.  Mr C says Yorkshire  Building Society mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think YBS made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. Ive seen  documentation from the time of the sale which  shows  Mr C chose to 
take the policy by ticking a box. He also completed a separate application form to apply 
for it. There  is nothing in the documentation  Ive seen which  makes  it look like PPI was 
compulsory. I appreciate Mr C says he was forced to take it out but based on the other 
evidence available  to me, I cant conclude that its more likely  Mr C was forced  to take 
the policy.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
When the policy was sold,  YBS got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr C about that. Because  YBS 
didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said including what hes said about not knowing what  
PPI was at the time of the sale.  But these points dont change my decision. In the section of 
the mortgage application where Mr C ticked to take PPI, it set out that payment protection 
was for the purposes of meeting the monthly  commitments  for up to 12 months in the event 
of unemployment  or accident/sickness. So I think Mr C should have been aware of what  PPI 
Ref: DRN76575762was at the point  at which he chose  to take it out. And I dont think it was YBSs  fault if he 
wasnt aware.
what Yorkshire Building Society needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr C any extra  interest Mr C paid because  
of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr C the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7657576