K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he hasnt received a Recommend a Friend payment  from Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).  
background
Mr M has been a customer of Nationwide for some years. 
In 2015 he recommended  a third party, A, to Nationwide, using a refer  a friend scheme.  A 
transferred his account to Nationwide and both A and Mr M received a reward  payment in 
late 2015. 
A subsequently  left Nationwide and in April 2018 Mr M completed a second referral for A. 
The scheme offers to pay £100 to the referred  friend  and £100  to the recommender. The 
scheme sets out details  of when a payment will and will not be made, and how multiple 
recommendations for the same  person  will be treated. 
A completed  his transfer to Nationwide, but Nationwide  did not credit the referral payments 
to Mr M or to A. 
Mr M contacted Nationwide in May 2018  to ask where the payments  were. He was informed 
that neither he, nor A, were eligible for payment as they had been paid for a switch  in 2015. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide, arguing that the terms  and conditions  of the scheme did not 
cover his situation and that he should  receive a referral payment for A. 
Nationwide sent Mr M its final response  in June 2018. This rejected Mr Ms complaint and 
quoted part of the terms of the scheme, which said that if more than one person 
recommended the friend then Nationwide would pay the recommender whose  identification 
number is received first. 
Mr M was not happy with that response and contacted us. He accepts that the terms do not 
allow A to be paid a second time,  but he thinks that his referral qualifies  for a payment. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that Mr M was not eligible  for a reward payment because the terms and conditions 
provide for only the first recommender  to be paid the reward. 
Mr M queried what ID number had been assigned to him in 2015 and argued that if there  
was no unique ID in 2015 then he should  be paid for the 2018 referral.  Mr Ms argument did 
not change the adjudicators view so Mr M asked for an ombudsman review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  considered the terms and conditions of the scheme at the time Mr M 
referred A in 2018, and the arguments  of the parties. 
Ref: DRN77098902There has been discussion  about  the terms and conditions  that applied  in 2015 and 2018,  
and what unique identification number and start date would apply to Mr Ms referrals, both in 
2015 and in 2018. Mr M thinks  that if there was no unique identification number in 2015, or 
that the unique reference number was different to his 2018 number, that would mean that 
Nationwide should  treat him as a new referrer in 2018 and pay him the referral fee. 
The adjudicator considered that, even if the unique number was different, the terms were 
clear that a recommender could only be paid once  for referring a specific  friend.
I agree  with that view, and think the terms of the scheme  are clear that the spirit of the 
scheme is to apply to new customers who have not been referred  previously or who are not 
returning customers. 
Beyond this, I also do not think there  was a qualifying referral in this situation. 
The terms and conditions  in force  at the time of the 2018 referral  set out The offer is we will 
credit your current  account and the recommended friends current account with £100 for 
each qualifying recommendation  made on or after 12 February  2016.  
Mr M has acknowledged that A is not qualified to receive the payment because  of a 
subsequent term which states The recommended friend will only be entitled to receive  one 
payment for being recommended even if they switch more  than one account  to us or are 
recommended by more  than one person. 
On that basis, A is not a qualifying recommended friend, and consequently  I do not think  that 
there is a qualifying recommendation.
I have shared this view with the parties  and neither  party has added  made  any further 
submissions. 
I therefore do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Nationwide  to do anything  further.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709890