K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs W, I dont  think this PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill explain 
my reasoning.
The store card application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what  the policy was for 
and what it cost. There was a space below where  Mrs W could sign if she wanted it, or which 
could be left blank  if she didnt want it. The application reiterated that she should  only sign 
there if she wanted PPI. Mrs W signed  specifically  to say she was happy to pay for PPI, and 
separately she signed for the agreement as a whole in a different and distinct  section. 
I understand Mrs W may have been  in a rush at the time, but Im afraid it was still her 
responsibility to read what she was signing  for. Overall, I think that Mrs W was given a clear  
choice about whether  she wanted PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  even if, 
understandably, she doesnt  remember doing so after so many  years.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so they didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs W enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Mrs W chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. And she doesnt  seem to have 
had any other protection or work  benefits in case she was off sick or lost her job, aside from 
the very limited statutory  measures. I understand Mrs W had some savings, but since  she 
had no other  cover  shed  have needed those savings for all her living costs  not just her 
store card  if shed  been off sick or out of work. And the PPI meant she could protect her 
savings and use them for more important things.  So I think the policy  would have been  
useful for Mrs W in case something went wrong.  And so I dont think  better information about 
the PPI was likely to have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN79503942my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950394