complaint
Mrs P says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought two PPI policies, the first in July 1998  and the second  in August 1999 at the 
same time as taking  out loans. She applied for the loans and PPI policies  in branch. I 
appreciate Mrs P thought the policies  had been sold by post,  but the evidence Ive seen 
(business system notes) shows that these were branch sales.
The loan taken  out in 1998  was repayable over a 180 month term. The monthly  loan repayment 
was £165.25 with the PPI costing an additional £16.82  making the total monthly  repayment  
£182.07. This loan agreement  ended  in September 1999. Mrs P took out another  loan in 1999. 
This loan was repayable over a 168 month  term. The monthly loan repayment  was £221.71 
with the PPI costing  an additional £22.57  making the total monthly repayment
£244.28.The policies  didnt attract interest  and could  be cancelled (by BoS with 30 days  written  
notice or by Mrs P giving BoS written  notice) without penalty.
The policies provided cover for Mrs P for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  They offered  to repay  Mrs Ps monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 in the event of unemployment.
At the time of the sales, Mrs P was employed as a manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying her credit card should she 
be unable to work due to sickness. However, she has told us she would have received at least 
3 months worth of redundancy  pay. Mrs P has said she had medical  conditions  at the time of 
the sales.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the first loan account opened in 1998  and closed in 
1999. The second loan account opened in 1999  and closed  in 2007.
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Mrs Ps representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN7081461The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  BoS should have 
told Mrs P about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs P and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint
This sales took place  in 1998 and 1999 before the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG).
The credit agreements themselves concluded in 1999 and 2007. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Ref: DRN7081461There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ps case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
Ref: DRN7081461to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including drawing 
to her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were  optional.
I have seen a copy of the application form Mrs P completed in July 1998.  This form provided 
two equally clear options as to whether  or not to take PPI. I can see that Mrs P selected the 
option to take PPI by signing for it.
Although I dont have  a copy of the application form completed by Mrs P in August 1999, I 
have a seen a copy of the credit agreement. This again provided Mrs P with a choice as to 
whether or not to take PPI. I can see that the a printed  x appears in the box to take PPI. As 
the rest of the form has also been  completed  with printed personal details relating to Mrs P, I 
think the x reflected the discussion  between Mrs P and the representative.  If Mrs P didnt 
want PPI at this stage, she couldve informed the representative. Instead  she went on to sign 
the agreement.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policies  were  
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mrs P agree that advice was provided  during  the sales.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policies  were  a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs P. It seems Mrs P cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies. This is unsurprising in 
respect of sales during  meetings.  The adviser had some limited  information about Mrs Ps 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs P would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policies did not fully meet her needs.  For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Mrs P had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Ref: DRN7081461Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policies were suitable  for Mrs P given  her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mrs P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policies.
-Mrs P had a need for the policies as she would not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness, her redundancy benefits were limited and she 
didnt have any savings she could fall back on. The policies would have  helped  Mrs P 
manage the consequences  were  she unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mrs P. I 
appreciate Mrs P says she was financially stretched but the information  around her 
income and outgoings  at the time of the sales shows the policies  were  affordable  for 
her.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mrs P. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding the three pre-existing  medical  conditions  Mrs P 
has told us about, the first two happened in 1978  and the third in 1983 and it doesnt 
look like she had any ongoing  problems because  of them. Given the nature of these 
conditions and the length of time between the conditions and the sales, it does  not 
appear that these  conditions  were likely  to reoccur.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies to enable her to understand what BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs P was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  her payments if Mrs P 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability). I have reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mrs P would have taken out the policies without any sense of 
what the policies  were for and of how much the premium might be. The credit  agreement Ive 
seen from the 1999  sale shows that the cost of PPI would have been  set out clearly.
Although I havent  seen  a copy of the credit agreement for the 1998  sale,  my understanding  
of the sales process  is that Mrs P would have  had to complete a similar credit agreement  to 
the one in 1999 which would have set the cost of the PPI out separately. So I think Mrs P 
would have known  the cost of the PPI before  finally agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs P agreed to take out the policies.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mrs P Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
Ref: DRN7081461and reasonable to Mrs P. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs P all of the information she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her.
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs P suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold the policies to Mrs P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs P 
would have still taken  out the policies, had BoS done things properly.
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mrs P, I have found that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs P would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN7081461Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her loan payments in the event she was unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. 
But she made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  she thought she 
was getting is not exactly  what she got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ps circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs P was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policies, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs P would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ps expectations about 
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs P knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies or which  Mrs P asked 
about or got advice, treatment or counselling about, from a doctor  during the 12 
months before the start date which recurs within 24 months of the start date;
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs P pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policies werent as 
good as she thought she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in the sales, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking  out the policies.
The evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sales shows that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for their benefits and 
they provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
her should  the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs P says she had medical 
conditions when the PPI was taken  out and the policies may not have provided cover had
Ref: DRN7081461she needed time off work because of these  conditions, I dont think  better information about  
this exclusion would  have  put her off agreeing to them. I say this because the medical 
conditions Mrs P has told us about occurred in 1978  and 1983.  Given the nature of the 
conditions and the length of time between receiving  treatment for these conditions and the 
sales, I think its unlikely that these conditions were the main reason Mrs P would be taking 
cover out.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policies  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
from taking out the policies,  Mrs P, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to 
take them out.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her job 
or any similar job but also unable to do any job which she might reasonably be qualified  for, 
it might  have played into her thinking  about what she would do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  given Mrs Ps circumstances and the limited other 
means she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt working, on balance, I still think she 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs P would  still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable  for her, 
were sufficiently close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits 
that would  help her manage the consequences were Mrs P made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mrs P would have taken out the policies in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P
Ref: DRN7081461found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies.
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done.
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of BoSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mrs P, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1998 and 
1999 when providing information  about insurance policies.
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs P and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN7081461K820x#14Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7081461