K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a guaranteed  over 50s plan  a without  profits  whole 
of life policy  by National Westminster Bank Plc. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
In 2006, Mr K started  whats commonly known as an over 50s plan. It was designed 
to provide cover for people aged  over 50. It wasnt designed or marketed as a 
savings plan. 
The monthly premium paid by Mr K was used to cover the cost of the benefit 
provided. 
No withdrawals could  be made  at any time,  and the plan could never accrue  a 
surrender value. 
The business has confirmed that in 2006  branch staff werent authorised  to give 
advice. They were, however, permitted  to provide information  limited to giving  a 
consumer the sales literature that related to a particular product  they were  promoting 
at the time. 
He was unable  to reasonably conclude what was and wasnt said to Mr K at the point 
of sale.  However, hes seen nothing to persuade him that Mr K was told he could 
make future withdrawals from the policy.
The documentation  made clear that the plan would provide life cover as long as      
Mr K continued to pay the £10 monthly premium.  It also warned that if the plan was 
kept long enough  then at some  point Mr K would have paid in more than the plan 
would pay out. 
Mr K signed the declaration thereby confirming hed received, read, and understood 
the documentation provided.  
He was satisfied  the plan provider  would also have sent him the policy schedule 
setting out the nature  and operation  of the plan.  
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view.  He maintained that he and his wife were advised  
he could make withdrawals in the future. But he accepts  hes no evidence to support this.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view and for much the same  reasons. Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. 
In this instance, on balance, I dont think the business has acted incorrectly.     
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by Mr K and the business and reach what  
I think is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts  of the case.
Ref: DRN71119752In deciding whats fair and reasonable Im obliged to take into account the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice.  Although I must take this into account Im not bound by 
it.
As a fresh pair of eyes looking  at the complaint, its for me to decide,  based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mr K. But I wont be addressing  every  
single point  and Im not obliged to. Instead,  my decision  will concentrate on what I think are 
the key issues.
On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the plan was taken out on a direct basis. In 
other words, it was sold without financial advice when  Mr K came  in to branch looking for a 
plan to be used  for funeral expenses  as a result Im unable to consider the suitability  of 
the plan. 
That said,  these plans  were commonly used for this purpose and ensured guaranteed  
acceptance without  the need  for medical  underwriting. And this remains the case  today.
Im conscious that mis-selling  can take place based on the nature of advertising  and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, Im satisfied the policy documentation 
supplied to Mr K before  he accepted  the plan was clear, fair, and not misleading. 
It made  reasonably clear  the amount payable upon claim. And because the plan had a fixed  
sum assured and premium, it was possible that more could be paid in than paid out in the 
event of death. I dont  think Mr K needed  to have  done a calculation  to realise this was the 
case. 
In this case, the onus was on Mr K to make sure the plan was suitable for his circumstances. 
I note he was also given  cancellation rights, in case he changed his mind.  
If Mr K didnt read the documentation  provided,  I dont  think  the business can be held 
responsible for that.  
Its important to note that any potential surrender value isnt a full refund of all the premiums  
paid since the policy began. The premiums  Mr K has paid have been  used  to cover the cost 
of insuring his life since the policy  began, and the expenses the business has incurred in 
setting up and administering  the plan. 
I understand the policy sum assured and premiums  were fixed from the outset based on a 
number of factors including Mr Ks age, sex, health  and mortality  tables. I note he paid a 
relatively large sum of money  over the period  hes had the policy; 
But if he lived longer  than his predicted age, it was a natural consequence that he would 
have paid substantially  more than the sum assured. But had he died before then, the policy 
would have paid out more  than the amount of premiums paid in. Thats just how the policy  
operated. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ks frustration Im unable to require the business  to do anything 
because I dont think it has done  anything wrong.  
Ref: DRN71119753In conclusion, this was a non-advised sale, and sufficient policy documentation was provided  
that made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the plan. And notwithstanding  the 
points made  by Mr K, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111975