K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policies. 
Background
Mr A bought a regular  premium policy alongside  a loan in 1994, 1995  and 1996.  Mr A bought a 
single premium PPI policy  alongside a loan in 1998 and 1999. Each loan consolidated the 
previous loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A says he was told that he had to take out PPI in order to be accepted  for the loans. So 
Ive looked first at whether Nationwide made it clear to Mr A that he had a choice, and 
obtained his consent, in taking out the policies. 
No documentation  exists for the loans taken with regular premium PPI in 1994, 1995  and 
1996. Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents available from 
the time of the sale, as is the case here.  The sale happened, at the least,  over 22 years ago, 
so Im not surprised that neither Nationwide nor Mr A have been able to provide any of the 
specific sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. So whilst acknowledging that things could  have happened  
just as Mr A said they did, considering how long ago the sale was in these cases, I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  to be able to uphold  the complaint on these points for these 
policies. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreements that Mr A signed to get the loans in 
1998 and 1999. The credit agreements  describe  the PPI as, Optional Credit  Insurance. The 
agreements explain the cost of the PPI and show how that adds to the total monthly 
payment. So in order for me to find it more likely  that Nationwide  failed to make it clear to 
Mr A that he had a choice  about  taking the policies, Id have to think it more likely  that Mr A 
was told something that was different  in substance  and spirit to what  was written on the loan 
agreement. Without any evidence to support Mr As testimony, I think its more likely that PPI 
was presented as optional  for all five policies and Mr A chose to take it on each  occasion  
and thats how it came to be applied to his loan accounts, even if he does not remember that 
now.
Ref: DRN76929292Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation. Ive been  shown  
no documentary evidence  that suggests  that the policies were sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr A clear enough information about  the policy so he could decide if 
he wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped Mr A from buying the 
policies. I explain why I say that below. 
Mr A was eligible for the policies. And there are things that sometimes arent covered by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr A wouldnt  have  been  affected  by those things. 
And I think that Mr A had, most  likely, a need  for the cover the policies  could provide. In 
saying this Ive considered  what  Mr A told us about  his circumstances at the time of the 
sales. Mr A told us he had sick pay for the first three sales  but couldnt recall what that 
amounted to. And Mr A told us he had some savings he could have relied on. I have seen  no 
evidence that supports  what  Mr A told me about  these savings. But I have seen a trend of 
Mr A taking larger and larger loans over the five loan sales.  So it seems that if Mr A did have 
the savings he told us about,  he chose  to protect  them instead  of repaying his debt or having 
a smaller loan. The first three policies would have  paid the loan amount for up to 24 months 
in the event that Mr A was too ill to work, or for up to 12 months in the event that Mr A lost 
his job. These policies would have paid out in addition to any sick pay that Mr A had and 
would have further protected the savings he told us about. So I think  he could have found 
the policies useful.
 
For the 1998 and 1999 sales  Mr A told us his sick pay was good initially  but that it would 
have dropped significantly after six months. Mr A also told us of a standalone ASU policy but 
Mr A has not been able to provide any evidence to support his testimony. Whilst its 
understandable that documentary evidence isnt available given the time that has passed,  its 
absence has reduced the weight Ive been  able to place  on what  Mr A told us about  this 
policy. But the PPI policies sold to Mr A with these two loans could have paid out for the full 
term of the loans in the event Mr A was too ill to work,  and for up to 12 months in the event 
he lost his job. So having considered all of the above, I think that Mr A could have found the 
single premium policies  useful. 
All of the policies  appear to have  been flexible in that Mr A could have cancelled the regular 
premium policies had he wished to, and he may have got back  a pro rata refund of the PPI 
premium if he cancelled  the single premium policies  early.  So I dont think  this meant the 
policies werent  right for him. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Mr A thought now that the single premium policies sold in 
1998 and 1999 were  expensive, I think the costs were set out clearly  on the agreements and 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policies  were unaffordable to Mr A or that he 
had a need to keep  costs  down. And given how long the policies could have  paid out for, 
most likely, if Mr A made a successful claim,  he could have got back quite a bit more  than he 
paid for them.  So I dont think that in this case the cost made  the policies unsuitable for Mr A.
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put Mr A off taking out any of the five the PPI policies he was sold.  
Ref: DRN76929293my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  and I make  no award against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  
my decision  before 15 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7692929