K822xcomplaint
Mrs I is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited hasnt repaired or replaced her faulty  
boiler, even though its been causing problems  for four years.  
background 
British Gas installed a replacement boiler  for Mrs I in 2014.  Since  then there have been 
intermittent F11 faults (that is, a fault that can be a circulation error or thermistor  error).  
British Gas has been dealing with Mrs Is claim under the HomeCare policy.
Mrs I reports that during winter while the heating is running, the boiler experiences  the F11 
fault on initial fire-up. Since she goes abroad  during winter, someone has to come in to her 
property to reset the boiler  three times a week. 
British Gas hasnt  been  able to repair the fault, as it hasnt been  called in during the winter. 
On the occasions it has been called in, boiler and system checks were done, with 
thermistors replaced on 2 occasions.  As well, on those occasions  British Gas re-scheduled 
twice and ordered the wrong parts twice. 
British Gas suggested to Mrs I that it would wait till the heating  was required again before 
doing anything  more. But in the meantime it offered her a total of £240  compensation, to 
take account of its handling of the call-outs, and its service to her. Mrs I didnt accept  that 
offer. 
The investigator believed  it was fair, under  the circumstances,  that British  Gas should 
replace the boiler immediately. He also said British  Gas should increase its offer of 
compensation to £540.00 given the risk and inconvenience Mrs I has had to bear. 
Mrs I agreed but British Gas did not respond to the investigators view and so the matter  has 
come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas acknowledged the problems  with the boiler and its own failings in dealing  with 
Mrs Is clam. Specifically  it noted the broken and unproductive  appointments, multiple  visits, 
the boiler being at risk months  after installation and length of time taken to respond to [her] 
complaint.
I appreciate that it may not have had the opportunity  to check the boiler during winter, but I 
am satisfied  the boiler clearly has a recurring  unresolved problem and that attempts by 
British Gas to deal with it to date have not been  successful. Mrs I has had the ongoing 
concern and inconvenience  of this unresolved issue; as well, there  are safety  risks attached 
to an improperly functioning  boiler, and she shouldnt have her peace of mind disturbed by 
that. She has said shes also incurred some  expense in having the boiler  checked  during  
winter while  shes away. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable  that she should  have to deal with this any longer. British 
Gas is obliged under the policy to replace the boiler if it cant be repaired. The evidence 
Ref: DRN71616892indicates repairs, such as they were,  havent been  successful. So British Gas should  replace 
the boiler as required under the policy, and compensate Mrs I reasonably for the avoidable 
and protracted  upset and inconvenience shes  experienced. I agree with the investigator that 
compensation should be increased to £540.    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. I am satisfied 
that the settlement proposed by the investigator  is fair and reasonable. 
British Gas Insurance Limited is required to promptly replace the boiler  in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. It is also required to pay Mrs I £540.00  compensation 
for the trouble and upset  it has caused  her.     
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7161689