K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Mrs N have complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  (AXA) refused to pay 
a claim Mr N made on their joint private  health insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs N have a private health  insurance  policy, that is underwritten by AXA,  since  
September 2017. In September 2018 Mr N contacted AXA as he wanted  to make a claim for 
treatment relating to pain in his lower back. 
AXA rejected Mr Ns claim on the grounds  that it related to a pre-existing medical condition. 
It said that Mr N had previously had surgery on his back and that notes from his GP 
indicated he had reported the pain in his back had started around the same time as he had 
taken out the policy  in 2017. As such it believed it was entitled to reject the claim under the 
terms of its policy.
Mr N feels this is extremely unfair and that AXA is doing anything  it can in order  to wriggle 
out of paying his claim. He says he has a letter from his consultant clarifying  the pain he is 
experiencing now is unrelated to the issues that led to his previous back surgery.  He also 
said the first time he sought medical  advice about his current issue  was in October 2017, 
after the policy had started, and so AXA should  honour his claim and pay for his treatment. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ns complaint already. She found that AXA was 
entitled to reject the claim as per its policys terms and conditions. Mr N disagreed  with her 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and so its been passed to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  
In order to decide whether or not AXA was entitled  to reject Mr Ns claim I need to consider 
what the terms and conditions of his policy say. 
Under the section  entitled Existing  Medical Conditions it says a pre-existing condition  is 
defined as:
any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms (emphasis added) 
Mr N has said that the issue with his back shouldnt be defined as a pre-existing medical 
condition as he hadnt sought treatment  for it, or had any sort of diagnosis in relation to it, 
prior to the policy starting. However Mr Ns GP confirmed in the notes he provided  to AXA 
that Mr N was experiencing  symptoms in the weeks before he took out the medical  
Ref: DRN73944362insurance policy. And because he was experiencing these  symptoms before the policy  
started, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to consider Mr Ns back  pain to be a
pre-existing medical condition based  on the definition outlined  above. 
As I think  it was fair to define Mr Ns condition as pre-existing the next thing I need to 
consider is whether or not AXA was entitled  to refuse to provide cover for treatment on this 
basis. 
Looking that the terms in the policy relating to what will be excluded I can see it says 
We will provide cover  for treatment of medical  conditions that arise  after you join. However, 
in the first two years of cover there is no cover for the treatment of pre-existing conditions
Mr N took out his policy in September 2017 which means the earliest he may be able to 
claim for treatment relating to his back problem would be September 2019. And Mr N wanted 
to claim in September 2018. So, while I understand why Mr N was upset to find out he 
couldnt claim for his back pain I cant say that AXA did anything wrong when it refused to 
honour his claim. 
Ive listened to a number  of calls that Mr N had at the time and it is clear  that he feels very 
strongly that AXA were  being overly pedantic and unfair in refusing to pay his claim. I hope 
that my explanation  has clarified why the claim was refused  and why Im not in a position to 
ask AXA to do anymore  for him in relation to this issue. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394436