K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited charged an unnecessary  56 euros  
against his prepaid Eurocard when he withdrew euros from a euro dispensing cash  machine, 
having treated  it like a sterling transaction.
background
Mr A said that as he didnt  withdraw  Sterling from his account, Wirecard should not have 
charged him a currency transaction fee.
Wirecard said Mr A was given  the choice to proceed with the transaction  in either euros  or
Sterling and its systems showed that he choose  Sterling.  This meant his transaction  was 
subject to currency conversion and a fee based  on the exchange  rate is charged.
Wirecard said it only charged Mr A a fee of 1.75%  of the Sterling value of the transaction, but 
the ATM provider can raise further charges.
The investigator said Wirecard charged  Mr A €6.24  and €1.50. These were alongside the 
transaction and consistent with the terms which allow it to charge 1.75%. She said the terms 
also explain  that; When you use your Prepaid Card at an ATM, you may also be subject to 
applicable fees, surcharge rules  and regulations of the relevant ATM, or other  financial  
institution or association. She said Wirecard had charged Mr A fairly.
The investigator said the ATM provider  confirmed it can add 5.75% fee to a transaction if the 
currency is not supported  by the card. So a prepaid  Eurocard, designed for use abroad, 
used in a UK ATM for a non-euro currency would likely attract the additional fees charged to 
Mr A by the ATM provider. She said we cant look at a complaint against the ATM provider 
because providing  cash machine facilities  to non-customers isnt a regulated activity.
Mr A said that his core complaint hadnt been  addressed. He said that Wirecard had applied 
a Sterling to euro conversion that was not warranted  and they have not protected him from 
fraud. Mr A requested that an ombudsman  review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is unhappy because he was charged 56 euros  when withdrawing euros from a euro 
cash machine. He said he was charged  for a Sterling transaction which he didnt  select. Ive 
looked carefully at Mr As transaction  and the terms of his account to see if Wirecard has 
treated him fairly.
It seems  to be clear that the 56 euro charge  to Mr A was due to the fact that the ATM  chose 
to charge the card in Sterling and used its own exchange rate. The ATM provider benefits 
from this, not Wirecard  whose charge is only 1.75%  of the transaction  value. 
I sympathise with Mr A for incurring the unexpected fee, but from what I have seen Wirecard 
has charged him in accordance with its terms and conditions  and treated  him fairly. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Wirecard  hasnt  protected him from fraud.
Ref: DRN79994122The investigator gave  Mr A details of the ATM provider and I recommend that he brings a 
complaint to them about the transaction charge that it raised if he remains  dissatisfied. 
Unfortunately this isnt a regulated activity  and so our service  wont  be able to consider any 
complaint about  the ATM  provider that he may make.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999412