K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1996. Mr and Mrs L say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs L that they had 
a choice about it. But Mr and Mrs L say they were told they had to have the PPI in order to 
get the mortgage and that they thought they would breach  the terms of their mortgage if they 
cancelled the PPI.
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls application form for the mortgage.  
This included a section  on PPI with a box for them to answer yes or no to whether they 
wanted it. And there is a handwritten yes in the box. The form also shows the type of cover 
and benefit they selected.
Bradford & Bingley  has also sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter. And this also shows  
that PPI has been  taken  out, and shows the cost and benefit of the policy.
I havent seen  anything on these documents, or any other document Ive seen  from the sale,  
which suggests that the PPI is a condition of the mortgage or that Mr and Mrs L had to take 
the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Bradford & Bingley did make it clear  to 
Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs L chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs L any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended it to them. This means it didnt  have to 
check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs L got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like Mr and Mrs L were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than the sick pay they wouldve been  
entitled to at the time. So it would have  been  useful for them  if something went  wrong.
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us copies of a policy summary and sales booklet for the PPI 
policy. And these both say that customers must  have been employed for six months 
continuously to be eligible  for the policy. But the actual terms and conditions  of the policy  
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us dont include this term.  And I think  these terms and 
conditions represent  what would actually have been applied  when  interpreting  the policy, 
Ref: DRN76810372more so than the policy  summary or sales booklet. So I dont  think Mr and Mrs L wouldve  
had to have been continuously employed  for 6 months to be eligible for the policy.
The terms of the policy do say that customers must have at least  six months continuous 
employment immediately  before any claim  for unemployment. Mr L had only been with his 
employer for just over one month  at the time of the sale. And its not clear from what  Ive 
seen whether there was a significant  gap between him leaving his previous job and starting 
that job, and so whether he had been continuously employed for six months at the time of 
the sale.
But, even  if he only had just over one months  continuous employment  at the sale,  Mr L 
wouldve been able to make an unemployment claim once he did have six months 
continuous employment. And the policy was to cover the repayments on a mortgage, which 
is a long-term financial  commitment.  Mr L could also have made an accident or sickness  
claim without  any additional wait. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to Mr and 
Mrs L, despite this period  when Mr L couldnt make  an unemployment claim.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking it out.
Which means Bradford  & Bingley doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs L.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because  Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs L any extra interest  they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN76810373my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7681037