K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 1991 and in 1997. Mr B and Mrs C say Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold  them  the MPPI 
policies. 
The policy taken out in 1991  covered Mr B and Mrs C and covered a joint mortgage.
The policy taken in 1997 only covered Mr B and was taken out when Mr B and Mrs C applied  
for a further advance  on their mortgage. The mortgage remained in joint names  at this time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr B and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr B and Mrs C say that the MPPI  policies  were automatically included, and that it was 
implied that there was more chance of them getting  their mortgage if they took out the 
policies. I cant know what was said to Mr B and Mrs C at the time, and they havent said 
much about this either.  But BoS has provided  copies of the MPPI applications that were  
completed in 1991 and 1997. These applications  are separate to their applications for 
the original mortgage  and further  advance. Both applications present the MPPI  as 
optional  and I theres  nothing  on the paperwork to suggest that an application for 
lending will be looked at more favourably by taking an MPPI policy.  So taking everything 
in to account, I think BoS made  it clear that Mr B and Mrs C didnt have to take out the 
MPPI polices and they chose  to take them out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  policies to Mr B and Mrs C so it had to check  that they 
were right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time both 
policies were taken  out, I think that they were.  For example they werent affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI cover and they seem to have  had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B and Mrs C about the MPPI policies wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policies - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like they would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI policies would have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B and Mrs C have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policies were mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr B and Mrs C some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr B and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So BoS 
Ref: DRN78008932doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr B and Mrs C paid for the MPPI they had 
with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800893