K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) didnt settle his travel insurance 
claim in full.
background
Whilst on holiday, Mr L fell ill and was taken to hospital. The first hospital  he was taken to 
wasnt able to carry out the surgery  he needed, so he was transferred to a second hospital  
on 15 July. This was a private hospital.  
Mr L had surgery at the private hospital.  On 19 July, ERV thought Mr L was well enough to 
be transferred to a public hospital. ERV told Mr Ls wife that if he didnt want to be 
transferred, he would be liable for any further  medical costs incurred. Mr L remained in the 
private hospital until 31 July, however ERV only covered  the medical costs up to 19 July. 
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought  a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2019. My findings were:
The policy  says treatment in a private  hospital or clinic isnt covered where  a suitable public 
or state  facility is available. 
ERV was notified of the claim on 15 July. Mr Ls wife advised ERV the following day that 
hed had surgery, but she wasnt sure if he was in a public or private hospital. 
Over the next few days, ERV found  out Mr L was being treated in a private  hospital.  After 
reviewing his medical notes, it thought he could be transferred  to a public hospital on 
19 July. Mr Ls wife wasnt happy about  him being transferred to a different hospital, and 
agreed to cover the cost of him remaining in the private hospital.  
Mr L says that although  his wife had agreed  to cover the costs  of him remaining in the 
private hospital after 19 July, the medical staff treating him told him that he wasnt fit to be 
transferred on this date and ERV hadnt  asked  for their opinion on this. 
Ive therefore  looked  at the medical  information from the private  hospital.  
On 16 July, Mr L had been  moved from intensive  care to the surgical ward.  
On 18 July, Mr Ls temperature  was up, and he reported mild abdominal pain.
On 19 July, thered  been a removal of an intraperitoneal  and subcutaneous tube. Mr L was 
continuing mobilisation and respiratory  exercises  on this day. But he remained unfed. 
The next note on 22 July says that the rhinogastric tube was removed due to abdominal  
distention and vomiting. A CT scan then showed  that further surgery  was needed. This took 
place on 22 July. 
On 24 July, it was recorded that Mr L was in a stable clinical condition  with normal bowel 
movement and mobilised.  
I understand Mr L was discharged on 31 July.
Ref: DRN73905612Given that Mr L had been  moved out of intensive  care and was starting to mobilise on 
19 July, I can understand  why ERV thought he may be ready for a transfer. I think it would 
have been appropriate for ERV to have  asked his treating doctor about this. However, as 
ERV didnt do so, Ive thought about  whether it was right for ERV to conclude that he was 
well enough to be transferred at this time.  On balance,  I dont  think it was. Ill explain why.
I see that ERV had apparently asked the hospital on 16 July for a fit to fly certificate. This 
wasnt provided. And although Mr L had had some tubes removed in the days after his initial  
surgery, he was still reporting  abdominal  pain and was still being  tube fed. On 22 July it was 
reported that his feeding  tube was removed due to abdominal distention and vomiting, but 
crucially we dont know  how long hed had those  symptoms.  After further investigations  on 
22 July, Mr L needed  further surgery. 
ERV says the very fact that Mr L was transported from one hospital to another  proves  that 
he was well enough to be transferred. I think this is a weak  argument. My understanding  is 
that the first hospital couldnt carry out the surgery needed, and so Mr L was transferred as 
an emergency to the second hospital  and taken  into surgery immediately. I dont think  this 
shows that Mr L was fit to be transferred on 19 July.
ERV also says its standard  practice  to transfer  a patient unless surgery is immediately  life-
threatening. However, I would only expect a transfer to take place if theres evidence that a 
patient is fit to be moved. 
I accept this is a balanced  case, but without the opinion of Mr Ls treating doctor, I dont think  
ERV has shown from the medical evidence alone that Mr L was fit enough following his 
surgery to be transferred on 19 July. 
Having said that, I dont think Mr Ls claim ought to be paid until he was discharged from the 
private hospital. I say that because on 24 July he was reportedly in a stable clinical  condition  
with normal bowel movement and was mobilised. The medical notes therefore dont indicate 
there were any concerns  with his health  that may have prevented him from being moved. 
Consequently, I think a reasonable outcome would be for ERV to pay the medical  costs  up 
to 24 July.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.
ERV responded  to say it accepted my decision. 
Mr L responded to say he doesnt think it should  have been up to him to determine whether 
or not he could have  been moved to another hospital. He thinks  this should have been 
discussed between  ERV and the private  hospital.  Mr L also says there  were  fires in the area 
at the time, so he doesnt think a public  hospital  would have welcomed a transfer.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr L that ERV should have  spoken with his treating doctors  in order  to decide 
whether he was fit to be moved. However, as it didnt do so, Ive looked at the medical 
Ref: DRN73905613evidence to see whether it was reasonable for ERV to conclude that Mr L was fit to be 
transferred to a public facility on 19 July.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think the medical evidence does support 
that Mr L was fit to be moved  on 19 July. However, I think  he most likely couldve been 
moved on 24 July, given that he was in a stable  condition  and mobilised  on this date. I 
remain satisfied that ERV should pay the claim up to 24 July. 
Mr L also says the local area had fires at the time, so he doesnt think a public hospital would 
have welcomed a transfer. 
I cant be sure that a public hospital  would have admitted  Mr L. However, ERV has 
confirmed there were two public hospitals  nearby who could have potentially admitted him. 
On that basis, I think its likely  he could  have been transferred to a public facility on 24 July.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung 
AG to settle the claim up to 24 July 2018 in line with the policy terms and conditions.  
As Mr L paid for some of the treatment himself, ERV should  add interest to this part of the 
settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoices were  paid to the 
date of settlement*. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If ERV considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7390561