K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded four transactions of £500  each  which 
were made using her credit card. Shes  told the bank she didnt make  or otherwise authorise 
them but Lloyds  has held her responsible.
background
Ms A applied for this credit card for the purpose of carrying  out a balance transfer. She made  
payments toward  the balance each before until October 2017. At that point she cleared the 
balance in full. She otherwise never used the card and hadnt  carried out any chip and PIN 
transactions.
 
Ms A received an account statement from Lloyds in August 2018 which showed two 
withdrawals for £500 each  on 2 and 7 August 2018.  Ms A hadnt otherwise received a 
statement since January  2018 as shed  cleared  the balance on the account back in 
October 2017.
Ms A contacted the bank  right away as she didnt recognise the transactions. She was then 
told about two further withdrawals, also for £500  each,  which  took place on 13 and 
16 August 2018.  Ms A told the bank she hadnt  authorised any of them. She told the bank 
both her card and PIN would have either been  in a safe or completely destroyed.  MS A has 
also said she lives alone and no one else would  be able to access  the safe,  had anything  
been in there.
Lloyds raised a fraud claim  and investigated.  It told Ms A it would be holding  her responsible 
for the spending.  It said it was unable to identify  how the card and PIN could have become 
compromised and so couldnt  conclude the transactions had taken place without Ms As 
knowledge or consent. 
Ms A asked us to investigate as she was unhappy with Lloyds response.  When  she referred 
the complaint  to us she pointed out that there had been confirmed cases  of fraudsters  
stealing post from outdoor letterboxes, which Ms A had at the time.  Ms A thought  this was 
the most  likely explanation for what had happened. Ms A was also concerned about how 
easy it had been  to get through the banks telephone security and thought someone might 
have gained knowledge of the PIN that way.
One of our investigators  looked into the case but she didnt uphold it. She said:
the genuine card was used along  with the PIN (personal  identification number);
there were no incorrect attempts at using  the PIN;
a new card hadnt been sent since October  2017;
the PIN hadnt  been changed or reissued since the account was opened in 2014;
the activity reported  by the police didnt fit with what had happened here; and
the pattern  of spending didnt match that of a fraudster as withdrawals werent made  
every day and there were still funds  available.
Our investigator concluded that, in light of these points, there was no explanation for how a 
third party could have  obtained the card and PIN. She said Ms A must have consented to the 
payments from her account  either  by carrying  them  out herself  or giving someone  else 
access to her card and PIN.
Ref: DRN76722552Our investigator confirmed that no one working for the bank would have been able to tell a 
caller the PIN for the card, even if they passed  security. On the subject of CCTV  she felt that 
it may show  Ms A didnt carry out the transactions herself, it wouldnt disprove that shed 
given the card and PIN to someone.
Ms A was unhappy  with our response. She didnt comment  further on the compromise of the 
card and PIN, but restated concerns  shed  raised about the banks security measures and 
the lack of CCTV. And so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator,  for broadly the same reasons.
The bank is able to hold Ms A responsible for spending on her account if she authorised  it 
herself. If the transactions  werent  authorised then, generally speaking,  it must refund them.  
The relevant  rules are set out in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. With these in mind, my decision must focus on whether I think  its more  
likely than not Ms A authorised the transactions or gave  someone else her card and PIN, 
based on the evidence available. 
In practical terms that means looking to see if theres a reasonable explanation  for how 
someone could  have obtained Ms As card and PIN without her consent.  Its because that 
explanation is lacking that Im unable to uphold Ms As complaint.
Based on what Ms A has told us about  the complaint there  doesnt  seem to be an 
explanation for how anyone  other than Ms A couldve accessed the card and PIN. 
Ive already set out a summary of the investigators  reasons for not upholding the complaint. 
Ive found each point to be borne out by the evidence  we have from both Ms A and the bank. 
The genuine  card was used to make  the transactions along with the correct  PIN. I cant  see 
how someone other than Ms A could  have access to the card and PIN unless it was with her 
consent.
I appreciate Ms As strength of feeling  that someone couldve obtained the card and PIN 
from her postbox. But given the card was sent a long time before the disputed  transactions 
took place that doesnt  seem very likely.  Id expect any fraudulent use of a card to start much 
closer to the point the card was intercepted. 
It cant be the case that Ms A destroyed the card as the evidence shows the genuine card 
being used. And if the card was in Ms As safe I cant see how someone could have 
accessed it given  Ms A lives alone  and shes told us no one else would have been able to 
get into it. There dont  appear to be any other  likely scenarios for how someone obtained the 
card and PIN without  Ms As consent.
Im satisfied no PIN was sent on or around  the same date as the card. Thereve been no PIN 
reminders before or since. So even if I were  to accept that someone took the replacement 
card from the postbox Id still be left with no reasonable  explanation  for how someone  got 
the PIN. Its true that bank staff wouldnt be able to provide Ms As PIN to anyone that might 
have tried to call in. It was never used by Ms A and so couldnt have been observed during a 
genuine transaction. Ms A has told us there  was no record  of it anywhere and shes also 
Ref: DRN76722553never used  it for a genuine transaction. So theres  no possibility of someone  seeing her use 
the PIN and obtaining the card later.
Im left with no plausible explanation for how either the card or PIN were  obtained by an 
unknown person. And so I dont believe its unreasonable for Lloyds to have held Ms A liable 
for the transactions.
Ms A has some specific concerns about  the bank not obtaining CCTV. But like the 
investigator I dont think it would have changed the outcome in the face of the other available 
evidence. It could show that someone other than Ms A carried  out the withdrawals. But it still 
wouldnt explain how someone obtained  the card and PIN without Ms As consent.
I can see Ms A feels strongly about  the fact the bank  didnt alert her to the withdrawals, 
given the activity was unusual for the account. Indeed I can see that she hasnt withdrawn 
cash using the card before or used it at all in the months leading up to the transactions.  But it 
is true that the transactions were made using the genuine card and PIN. Thats a strong 
indicator to the bank that the genuine  customer is using the card, particularly where there  
are no failed attempts  at the PIN. Theres nothing that suggests to me the bank should have 
done something more  here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7672255