K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the MPPI. 
The policy only covered  Mr D. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs D applied for some further lending  in 1999, at this time, Lloyds sold them 
MPPI to cover this advance, and their previous borrowing. Lloyds has provided a copy  of 
their lending  application, along with a separate application for MPPI. Nothing in the 
further lending  application suggests that an MPPI policy is required, or that an 
application will be looked  on more favourably  by taking the policy.  And as Mr D 
completed a different  application form for the MPPI,  I think  Lloyds made it clear that Mr 
and Mrs D didnt have  to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check that the MPPI  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example Mr D wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover. Ive also considered  Mr Ds 
employment status as a self-employed  person. But looking at the policy  terms, I cant 
see that Mr D wouldve had to do any more than an employed person to make a claim if 
he needed to, so I dont think this made the policy unsuitable.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN78335652Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7833565