K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (formerly  Leeds Permanent Building  
Society) (BoS) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1991 and 1995 
alongside two separate  mortgages.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a joint mortgage in 1991.  BoS cant say exactly  who the policy  
covered in 1991. So to be fair to Mr and Mrs N, it has agreed  to look at the policy  as though 
it covered both Mr and Mrs N.
This policy cost around £30 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £500 
split in equal shares between Mr and Mrs N. This would have been  paid for up to 12 months 
per successful claim if Mr or Mrs N couldnt work because of an accident,  sickness  or if they 
lost their jobs.
In 1995 they took out another  PPI policy which replaced the first policy. This time the PPI 
covered Mr N only. It cost around £30.50 and would  have provided a monthly  benefit  of £500 
for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Mr and Mrs N say they didnt need  it, have never used it and wouldnt have required it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Unhappy with this view 
Mr and Mrs N have asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed so 
Ill explain  why.
Both sales of PPI happened many years ago. That means that not all the records from the 
time are available and its also understandable  if Mr and Mrs N havent  been able to recall 
everything that happened at the time of the sale. I have decided this case on the balance of 
probabilities; that is whats most likely to have happened taking into account what  both the 
parties have told me, any paperwork which is available and Ive also thought  about what  we 
know about these  types of sales from the time.
Mr and Mrs N havent told me they didnt  know  they had the PPI. Rather they say they cant 
remember the PPI being  explained  and that they were anxious  to secure their mortgage so 
they signed the paperwork. Ive thought about  what theyve said but overall, I think  its likely 
that Mr and Mrs N knew  they were taking out PPI in 1991 and in 1995  and they chose it 
knowing they could  decline  it if they didnt want it.
I havent got all the paperwork but BoS has sent me some of the screenshots  from its 
internal records. And I can see a number of questions were  asked about Mr Ns job and his 
Ref: DRN73312402health in 1995 when  we know  the policy was in his sole name.  I can also see Mr N called to 
cancel the policy in 2004 so I think he likely  knew he had the cover. And I note that in 1995 
the policy was taken out in Mr Ns sole name. So its likely that at that time they made a 
choice not to cover Mrs N. And in 1991  I also think they also probably knew they were taking 
out the PPI. I also think the PPI would have  appeared on Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage  
statements - so if they hadnt wanted  it they could have questioned it at any time. I havent 
seen they did so. Taking into account everything, including what  we know about  these  types 
of sales, I think its more  likely they chose to take out PPI in 1991 and 1995,  knowing  they 
could refuse  it if they didnt want it.
And although Mr and Mrs N have said they were  anxious to secure  the mortgage so they felt 
pressured into taking  out the PPI, this is a subjective  matter.  So what one person feels is 
pressure another  may not. And Mr and Mrs N havent given me enough detail for me to 
conclude that this was a pressured sale. So I cant uphold  their complaint for this reason.
BoS cant tell us how the policy was sold. It says it will treat this as an advised sale to be fair 
to Mr and Mrs N. As a recommended sale BoS had to take reasonable steps to make sure it 
was right for their circumstances. But I dont need to make a finding about how the policy  
was sold. It doesnt  really matter if BoS advised Mr and Mrs N to buy the PPI in 1991  and in 
1995. As even if it did I still think both policies in 1991 and in 1995 were  suitable for their 
circumstances. I say this because:
sale in 1991
In 1991 both Mr and Mrs N were eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like they would 
have been affected by any of the main  limitations  and exclusions of the policy which might 
have made  it more difficult to make  a claim. Mrs N says she went self-employed  at some 
point after the mortgage was taken  out. So I dont think  she was affected at the time she took 
out the PPI. But even  if she was self-employed when she took out the PPI, the terms of this 
particular policy wouldnt have made it more difficult to make  a claim compared with 
someone who was employed.
sale in 1995
In 1995 the insurance covered Mr N only and again he was eligible for it and wouldnt have 
been affected by any of the terms and conditions in the policy  which could have made  it 
difficult to make a claim.
Although Mr N has told me he had sick pay from work  amounting  to six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay, this policy  would  have paid out in addition to and for longer 
than Mr Ns full sick pay from work lasted. And any savings  they had could have been used 
for other important and essential living expenses if things went  wrong. As the PPI covered 
their mortgage, the consequences of being  unable  to repay it if they lost their jobs or couldnt 
work were serious. So I think  the cover could  have been useful if things went wrong.  
And in both 1991 and 1995  I cant say it was unaffordable for them or they had a particular 
need to keep their costs  down. 
BoS also had to give them enough  clear  information so they could decide for themselves  if 
they needed it. And as there  arent many records from the time, its possible that not all the 
information was as clear  as it could have been. But in order  to uphold their complaint I would 
also need to find that if theyd been  given better or clearer information they would have 
Ref: DRN73312403changed their mind about buying the policy. I think they likely  chose the cover  in 1991 and in 
1995. And for much the same reasons as Ive explained above as to why it was right for 
them and their circumstances,  I dont think they would have been put off buying the policies 
if theyd been  given all the information they should have been.
Ive thought about everything theyve told me including them having to cut back their 
standard of living because  of PPI and about  another credit card policy  which was upheld.  But 
these points dont  change my decision. The cost of the policies was a small proportion of the 
mortgage cost. Insurance is there  to protect an unforeseen  event so although  they havent 
used it, I think the PPI could have  been  useful if things went wrong.  And each case  is looked 
at on its own merits - so what applies in one case doesnt apply in the other.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs N but I dont  think they lost out as a result of anything  
BoS did wrong and I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7331240