K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) didnt pay him 
enough for his written-off car when  he made  a claim on his motor insurance policy.  He also 
complains about  its poor service.
background
Due to an error, LVs agent didnt move his car from where it was taken after the accident for 
a week. That led to a delay in it being assessed.  LV then offered Mr F £9,500 for the car. 
Hed researched the price of similar  cars and thought his was worth up to £12,000, given  its 
good condition  and the money that had been spent maintaining  it. LV increased its offer to 
£10,100, which Mr F accepted reluctantly. He wasnt happy  that LV told him it based its offer 
on the price of cars nationwide rather than in his local area.
Mr F was disappointed that the payment from LV took several days to arrive. He thought the 
claim wasnt managed properly overall.  He said he had to make  all contact with LV and it 
hadnt noted that his car wasnt  moved by its agent.  Mr F thought as he hadnt accepted  the 
offer of a hire car from LV, hed saved it money, so that should have been taken into account 
in the settlement figure. Mr F then found  it difficult to find a complaints address for LV.
LV said feedback had been given about the error  made in collecting Mr Fs car. It said its 
engineers checked the market online to get a valuation for a car. As there were  few cars 
similar to Mr Fs car in his areas, LV looked elsewhere for comparable  cars. It said it didnt  
pass on savings from car hire to other parts of the claim. It said the payment for Mr Fs car 
cleared four days  after it was accepted. And it didnt agree  that it wasnt easy to access its 
complaints process,  as Mr F had said. .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt our role to value  cars, but we consider whether an insurer has acted reasonably in 
doing so. We think  the best way to find the likely  market value of a car is to look at the 
valuations in the national trade guides. Theyre based on extensive research of likely selling 
prices nationwide.  We dont think the prices  of cars in adverts  are reliable,  as they reflect  
asking prices and are open  to negotiation. 
In this case, an average of all four trade guides showed  the likely market  value of Mr Fs car 
was £9,092. One of the guides was out of line with the others. Disregarding it, the average 
valuation was £9,628. The top valuation was £9,965. LVs final offer to Mr F was £10,100,  so 
based on our findings,  I cant say it should  have offered  him more.   
Mr F doesnt agree that the trade  guides should  dictate whether an offer is fair, and he 
doesnt think its right to include the prices of cars across the UK. But as Ive said above, we 
think thats the fairest way to reach a reasonable valuation. He thinks the condition  of his car 
should have meant he was paid more. But engineers take into account  a cars general 
condition, as do the trade guides. Normal maintenance doesnt add value to a car, nor does 
recent work  on it.  
Ref: DRN72563112Mr F thinks the claim was badly managed. A major  part of that was the error made  that led to 
its agent not collecting the car for a week, thereby delaying  the process. I agree that the 
error shouldnt have been made - and that LV should have noted it. It seems it was only 
Mr Fs query  to LV that led to it checking on progress. LV said it would ensure feedback was 
given, but I have to consider what the impact of the error was on Mr F. 
Theres no doubt that Mr F was frustrated  by it. He says he lost the chance  to buy a car in 
the local area. But theres nothing to show that he would  have done so had the delay not 
happened. I cant hold LV responsible for a potential loss. And I dont think the time it took to 
pay Mr F was unreasonable. LV says it was told about the accident on 20 November 2018. 
The money had cleared  by 14 December 2018.  So even with the delay, and the dispute  
about the settlement sum, it took 24 days to settle the claim. I dont think thats an excessive 
amount of time, or that there was any undue delay in making the payment.
Under the policy, Mr F was entitled to a hire car for 21 days, or until the payment for his car 
was made.  Mr F chose not to accept a hire car, as he had other transport. LV would have 
saved the cost of hire as a result, so Mr F thinks the saving should have been passed  on to 
him as part of the settlement. But that isnt how the process works. If an entitlement is 
waived, its benefit  is lost. I dont think LV departed from the policys terms or acted unfairly.
Mr F said that as a minor  point, hed found  it hard to find a complaints address for motor 
insurance. That may be the case, but I think LV provides sufficient details of the complaints 
process in the policy document. A telephone number and several other  means of contacting 
it are set out, which is what wed expect to see.    
As I dont think Mr F has shown that LV acted unreasonably, I cant uphold  his complaint.      
      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7256311