K820x#14Complaint
Miss A has complained  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined a claim for 
terminal illness benefit and that it subsequently cancelled  her term assurance policy.
Background
Miss A took out a decreasing term assurance  policy which included terminal  illness  cover  
through an independent financial  adviser  (IFA). The policy  started on 1 November 2010. 
In December 2018 Miss A was sadly diagnosed with advanced stage cancer.  In 
January 2009  a claim was submitted under the policy  for terminal  illness benefit. After 
reviewing the medical information provided by Miss As doctors, Aviva declined  the claim 
and cancelled the policy from inception. It provided a refund of the premiums Miss A had 
paid. This was because  it thought Miss A hadnt  answered questions in her application form 
correctly about  her mental health. Aviva said if it had known her history of mental  health  
problems it wouldnt have  been able to offer her any cover at all.
Miss A complained. She said she hadnt  been asked any questions  about her mental health 
by the IFA and hadnt received any documents from Aviva. She also complained about the 
time it took Aviva to make  its decision.
Aviva didnt change  its decision about the claim but it paid her £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused by any delays. 
Miss A referred her complaint to our service.  She said Avivas  decision was unfair because 
her terminal  cancer diagnosis had nothing to do with her mental health. She said she 
suffered from post-natal depression in the past and would have disclosed this if shed been 
asked about it. She said it wasnt fair to decline her claim when she hadnt had the 
opportunity to tell Aviva  about it. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Miss A needed  to answer  the 
question posed  about mental  health conditions differently,  so there  was a misrepresentation. 
He was also satisfied  Aviva had sent Miss A a copy of her application  to check. As Aviva had 
shown it wouldnt have  offered Miss A cover  if shed answered that question differently,  the 
investigator thought  the decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was fair and in 
line with the relevant industry code. The investigator said if Miss A wasnt asked any 
questions by the IFA she could make  a complaint about this separately.
Miss A said she would make a complaint to the IFA but still didnt  think  Aviva was treating 
her fairly. She maintained  her terminal illness wasnt linked to her previous mental health 
problems, so she didnt  see how Aviva could decline the claim. She said she had three  
children who were  dependent  on her financially and not having the claim pay out would have 
a devastating  impact on them. Miss A also said Aviva had taken too long to make a decision 
and had misled  her about whether the claim would be paid on the phone.
The investigator listened to the calls but didnt think Miss A had been  misled. As he wasnt  
able to change  his view, Miss A asked for an ombudsman to provide a final decision.
Ref: DRN71174172My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Im not 
upholding it.
I know this will be very disappointing news for Miss A as this leaves her and her family in a 
very difficult position. I want to assure  her that I didnt take this decision lightly  and I have a 
lot of sympathy for her circumstances. While I dont want  to add to her distress  at this time,  
I cant say Aviva has treated her unfairly. Ill explain why.
Miss A doesnt think its fair that Aviva has declined her claim when it has nothing to do with 
her historic  mental health  problems. I can understand why Miss A feels  that way. But when  
considering a complaint like hers I have to take into account the relevant law and industry 
codes and practice. I also have to think about what should have happened and what  position  
Miss A would have  been in if shed told Aviva  about  her mental  health  problems as required 
in her application form.
As this policy was sold before the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 came into force, I havent considered it as part of this decision.  Instead, Ive taken 
into account the appropriate  industry guidance that was in place at the time Aviva  made  their 
decision. This is called,  Misrepresentation and Treating Customers  Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing  Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products April 2013 . I will refer to this as the code.
Miss A accepts that she would have answered the following question differently if shed been  
asked it by her IFA:
Within the last five years have you experienced:
a. anxiety state, stress,  depression,  chronic  fatigue,  any other mental or nervous illness?
I cant make  any finding as to whether or not the IFA asked Miss A this question  when 
completing her application form. I understand Miss A has lodged a complaint against the IFA 
and so it is only appropriate to consider that issue  in a complaint against that business. What  
Im looking  at is Avivas responsibilities with regard to the sale.
The completed application Aviva received on 21 October 2010 showed Miss A answered 
no to the above question. Miss A agrees it should  have  been answered yes. Im satisfied 
the question was clear  and that Miss A was sent a copy of her application by post to check  
on 21 October 2010. A covering  letter  stressed  the important of answering  questions 
correctly and explained a claim might  not be paid if there were inaccuracies. I know  Miss A 
says she didnt receive this, but it was addressed correctly. So, I think Aviva met its 
obligations with regard to the sale. And as an incorrect answer  was given, there  was a 
misrepresentation. 
Under the code,  Aviva  needed to classify  the misrepresentation, which  would determine  the 
remedy available to it. Aviva considers the misrepresentation  was careless. This is 
because Miss A signed a declaration confirming all the answers shed given in the 
application were  correct on 25 October 2010.  As she says she hadnt seen the application, 
Ref: DRN71174173Aviva says she shouldnt  have signed the declaration. For this reason,  it believes she hadnt 
taken enough  care when submitting her application.
Having considered this, I agree with the classification. I dont think there  was any deliberate 
attempt to mislead Aviva. But I think Miss A wouldve understood that an application was 
being submitted  on her behalf, which wouldve been  made up of her personal details. If she 
hadnt seen any version of her application whatsoever, I think  she should  have  asked about  
it before  signing the declaration.
In cases of careless misrepresentation, the code says Aviva can apply a proportionate 
remedy. This means that, as far as possible,  Aviva  should put Miss A back  to the same  
position as an identical customer  who had taken reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. So, I have to consider what Aviva would have  done  if Miss A had 
answered yes to the mental health  question.
If Miss A had answered yes, she wouldve been asked further questions about her 
condition, including  whether shed attempted suicide. And Miss A wouldve been expected to 
disclose that shed attempted suicide by way of an overdose of medication in June 2007 and 
twice in January  2008. If Aviva had known  this, its shown us through its underwriting 
guidelines that it wouldnt have provided  Miss A with any cover whatsoever.  So, it would 
have declined her application. For this reason, there wouldnt have been  any cover  in place 
when Miss A was sadly diagnosed with cancer. So, I think  Aviva had taken the correct action 
to decline the claim  and cancel the policy.
Miss A says if shes  done  something wrong, why would Aviva  return her premiums. This is 
because the code says it should.  As the policy would never have gone ahead,  Miss A 
wouldnt have paid any premiums towards  it, so its fair that she should get these back.
Miss A has also raised concerns about the delays  and the information  she was given over 
the phone.
I can see Aviva paid Miss A £300  for the delays. While  I appreciate that finding out the 
outcome of her claim was extremely important for Miss A, this can take time, particularly 
when more information is needed.  After  receiving information from Miss As consultant  which 
referred to intentional  overdoses in 2007  and 2008, Aviva needed further information about 
this from her GP. This took some  time to obtain and review. Its possible that Aviva could 
have made  the decision  a bit sooner, but I think the £300 paid fairly  compensates  her for this 
delay.
Ive also listened  to the phone calls supplied  by Aviva. I appreciate Miss A feels conflicting  
information was given. But I think that it was made  clear that although her claim was 
medically valid, there were concerns about  the information provided at application that 
needed to be investigated before a decision could be made. So, I dont  think she was misled.
Ref: DRN71174174My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7117417