K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was overcharged for her home insurance  By Santander  UK Plc 
(and its predecessors) from 1991 when she first took out a mortgage. The matter also 
concerns building societies Santander subsequently  took over, though,  for convenience  I 
shall refer to Santander throughout.
background
In 1991 Mrs S took out a mortgage with Santanders  predecessor. She was told at the time 
she had to take out insurance through it. In 2004  Santander tells us it advised Mrs S of an 
alternative policy, and she was invited to contact  it if she wanted to switch to that policy. 
Mrs S contends that she was never  advised of this and that had she been told of a cheaper  
policy she would have  switched to it. In 2015  Mrs S switched to a standalone policy, and 
found the premiums  to be much cheaper. So she complained to Santander that she had 
been overcharged for her home  insurance.
Santander agreed to refund the difference in premiums between  the policy Mrs S had and its 
alternative policy and to pay interest for that period. It made a payment of £2,545.14 plus 
£625.78 net interest. It credited the total sum to Mrs Ss account. It agreed  that Mrs S wasnt 
given sufficient information about  the alternative  policy during that period. Mrs S didnt think 
that was fair, as she felt she had been overcharged for her insurance  since 1991, not 2004 
when the alternative  policy was available.  She expected a refund of the difference in the 
premiums from that date.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator felt that Santander had acted fairly,  and that it was 
reasonable to look at the premiums from 2004,  when Santander first advised of the 
alternative policy. Mrs S strongly  denied that shed been given  any information about that 
policy. She contends  that we should be able to calculate the premiums for an alternative 
policy for the years 1991 to 2004.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The difficulty  with investigating Mrs Ss complaint is the lack of documentary evidence going  
back as far as 1991. We wouldnt  generally expect businesses to retain  documents going 
back a lot more  than six years. Also, regulations and standards  concerning  the selling of 
insurance have  changed  considerably since 1991.  For instance,  in 1991, it was accepted  
practice that a Building Society  or Bank would require that the customer  take out its choice 
of insurance with a mortgage. It was only in the late 90s / early 2000s that this practice was 
phased out. I dont think that it would be reasonable to impose a standard of today to 
insurance sales more  than 20 years ago.
Nevertheless, Santander was able to show us the terms and conditions  of Mrs Ss mortgage 
from 1991, which advise  that the insurance  was set up with a specific company but gave the 
customer the option of selecting from three  other insurers. So even  then there was the 
possibility offered of alternative insurance.
Ref: DRN72286482I think it is fair to consider  what alternatives Mrs S had for insuring from 2004. Before then, 
Im unable to say that Santander had any alternative policy available. While nowadays  in the 
very competitive insurance premium market  we would expect businesses  to tell consumers  
of their right to shop  around,  I wouldnt  have expected Santander to do so before 2004.  I 
appreciate that we havent seen any documents detailing what alternative policy Santander  
may have  had before 2004  but I have to decide  matters on what  is most likely. 
I think it most likely  that Santander  didnt  have any alternative policy  available  before 2004. I 
bear in mind  that in 2004, the difference between the two policies was just under £50 (about 
11%).  Even if there been alternative policies available, I think  it most likely  that in previous 
years the difference would have been  minimal. The difference between the two policies 
becomes much more  significant in the years after 2004.
If Mrs M says she wasnt advised of the available alternative policy  in 2004 or subsequently, 
then I accept that. There are no documents available to say anything  different. But it doesnt  
affect my findings, as Santander has already refunded the whole difference between  the two 
policies plus interest.  I think that was a fair resolution, as it accounts for the fact that Mrs S 
wasnt advised adequately about the alternative policy in the years 2004 to 2015.
my final decision
Santander has already made an offer to resolve this complaint and I think  that offer was fair 
in all the circumstances. Given  that Santander has already made  the payment, I make  no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7228648