K820x#14summary of complaint
Miss F complains about unfair charges that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  applied to her 
account over many  years since 2009. 
 
background
Miss F has held a bank  account with Santander  since 2006. For the majority of that time she 
held the same type of current account, apart from for a period of about  a year between  2017 
and 2018. 
Miss F had an agreed overdraft limit on her account from around 2014.  This was set at 
various levels and has been varied  upwards or downwards a number of times, usually at 
Miss Fs request. She has also asked for the overdraft to be removed from her account more  
than once over the years.  
In October  2016, Miss F contacted Santander  and asked it to remove  her overdraft limit 
whilst cancelling direct  debits that were no longer needed. 
Between April and September 2017, Santander sent Miss F a number of letters to let her 
know that certain payments didnt go through, as she didnt have enough  funds in her 
account. So, Santander told Miss F that she might be charged unpaid transaction fees as a 
result. It invited her to get in touch if she wanted help in managing her money to avoid 
charges. 
Miss F went overdrawn  and Santanders collections team  wrote  to Miss F in September 
2017 to let her know that she was using an unarranged overdraft. As funds were then 
credited to the account, the collections team  took no further action. 
Around the same time Santander  refunded a number of charges for unpaid direct  debits,  
standing orders and other account fees as a result of Miss F contacting  the financial 
assistance team. It also helped Miss F to change the type of account she had, but she later 
decided to switch  back to the old type of account.
Miss F wrote to Santander in March 2019 and asked for a refund of all charges on her 
account over a 10-year  period, as she didnt  believe  it had acted fairly given the financial 
difficulty she was facing.  She also said Santander was in breach of the Lending Code.
Santander didnt  uphold Miss Fs complaint.  It referred  to a Supreme Court  ruling  on bank 
charges and said that charges applied  to Miss Fs account were fair and correct  in line with 
the terms of her account. Santander invited Miss F to contact the financial difficulties team  if 
she was struggling. 
Miss F contacted our service and asked  us to look into her complaint. The investigator  felt 
that the charges applied to Miss Fs account were in line with the terms and conditions.  
And that Santander  had acted fairly when Miss F explained that she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. Miss F wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN77349202my findings
Miss Fs complaint relates to events  that span a ten-year  period, some of which I have no 
power to consider. Ive set out my findings  in relation to that in a separate decision to Miss F. 
So, for the purposes of this decision,  Ill be focussing on events from 2013 onwards. 
And, Ive now considered  all of the available evidence to decide whats  fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances of Miss Fs complaint. 
Miss F feels that Santander treated her unfairly  by applying  charges to her account  at a time 
when she was already experiencing severe  financial and other  difficulties. And Miss F says 
that these charges were often the difference between her being able to meet other important  
household expenses and not. I do appreciate  that this must  have  been  a very difficult  time 
for Miss F.  
I can see that Santander responded to Miss Fs complaint along the lines that a Supreme 
Court ruling found that charges applied to an account are considered part of the terms of the 
account and had been applied fairly.  
I dont necessarily disagree with Santanders response. Thats  because  the charges do 
seem to be broadly  in line with the terms of her account and Im satisfied that Miss F was 
aware of the likely charges, particularly if her account went overdrawn, or payments  were 
returned without  being made. But I dont really think thats at the heart of Miss Fs complaint. 
It seems  to me that Miss F expected  Santander  to recognise her struggles much sooner and, 
having done so, to support her much more than it did. Miss F feels  that Santander  was in 
breach of The Standards  of Lending Practice (previously the Lending Code)  by applying 
charges to her account in the way that it did and she said that has led to her being in a cycle  
of charges.
I can appreciate Miss Fs position in that she expects her bank to be supportive when it 
realised that she was struggling  financially.  The guidance and rules Santander needed to 
follow say that banks should have  systems  in place to monitor  accounts and be able to 
recognise and support  customers  who might be in financial difficulty. Theyre  also expected 
to act promptly to address  the situation  with the customer  to avoid it getting worse. 
The support  that banks  can offer will vary depending  on the individual  customers  
circumstances, so its important that the bank listens to and acts upon information that the 
customer gives them, so that they can try to resolve the problem.  
Ive thought about what all of this means  for Miss Fs case. 
The evidence clearly  shows that over the years, Miss F relied on an overdraft  that was set at 
different amounts. But I dont think that the fact Miss F was regularly using her overdraft or 
occasionally exceeding  it, in itself should have acted as an alert to Santander  that she was 
struggling financially. 
And thats because its not unreasonable to assume that where an overdraft has been  
arranged with a customer, theyd want to use it. And I think thats particularly relevant in 
Miss Fs case,  as her overdraft limits changed  regularly- upwards and downwards usually at 
Miss Fs request. And she sometimes asked for it to be cancelled  all together,  which may in 
fact have signalled to Santander that Miss F was in control of her account  and finances.  
Ref: DRN77349203Miss F says that shes had conversations with Santander over the years,  but accepts that 
they didnt really go into a lot of detail about  her financial difficulties. So, Ive thought about 
whether Santanders  actions  were  reasonable in light of what  its likely to have known about 
Miss Fs situation. 
I do think the fact that Miss F was regularly  incurring charges from around April 2017 could 
have been an indicator  to Santander that something had changed and that Miss F might 
have been struggling financially. And thats because Santander returned several payments 
unpaid because she didnt  have enough funds in her account  for them  to be paid. And that 
led to her paying charges. But Ive seen that Santander sent Miss F a number  of letters  
telling her about the charges and asking her to get in touch if she needed help. So, Im 
satisfied that Santander  recognised there might have been a problem  and tried to help 
Miss F to find a solution.   
But theres no evidence  to suggest that Miss F got in touch with the financial difficulties team 
until around September 2017. And at that point it refunded a number of charges to Miss F. 
Santander also helped  Miss F to change the type of account she held to one with a different 
fee structure. But ultimately  Miss F decided that it wasnt the right account for her and 
converted back to the old type of account. So, it seems to me that Santanders actions were 
reasonable at this point in light of what it knew about Miss Fs situation.
Ive considered whether Santander should have done anything  more to support Miss F. 
And, after giving this very careful consideration, Im not persuaded that it should. 
Its clear to me that, despite her difficulties, Miss F really tried to stay in control of her 
account. And I think the evidence shows that. So, by refunding  some  of Miss Fs charges, I 
feel that Santander was helping Miss F to try to get back to a position where she again  felt in 
control. And the evidence shows that from around October 2017, she was certainly on the 
way to getting her account back on track.  
I realise that Miss F has had a tough time financially, some  of which was driven by difficult 
life events. But that doesnt mean that Santander did anything wrong. And, after very careful 
consideration, I do feel that Santander  has tried to help Miss F through  her difficulties where 
it could. 
For those reasons, I wont be upholding Miss Fs complaint. I realise  Miss F is likely to be 
disappointed by this, but I hope she at least understands the reason for it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7734920