K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE has dealt with his claim under his 
extended warranty.
background
Mr Ws washing machine developed a fault and he claimed under his extended warranty with 
Great Lakes Insurance. The washing machine was deemed beyond  economical repair  and 
Great Lakes Insurance provided Mr W with a replacement.  
Mr W is unhappy that Great Lakes  Insurance neither installed the replacement  nor took 
away his faulty  machine.  Great Lakes  Insurance said the policy  didnt cover  this, so it didnt 
uphold the complaint.  
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt uphold  
Mr Ws complaint.  Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the matter has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cover was provided subject to the policy terms and conditions. These state that where 
the product is deemed beyond economical  repair, the product will be replaced.  Beyond 
Economical Repair is defined in the policy as, Where the cost of a single repair exceeds 
90% claim  limit. Ive not seen any evidence  to suggest this wasnt  the case, and I think  
Great Lakes Insurances  decision  to offer a replacement was fair and reasonable.
Mr W is unhappy that Great Lakes  Insurance neither installed the replacement  nor took 
away his faulty  machine.  Hes said lots of other  products potentially coverable  by the 
extended warranty wouldnt  naturally carry installation and removal  costs   and that no 
matter what the policy  wording says, it cannot  be right that he has to foot the bill to have  his 
faulty machine  removed.  But insurance  policies invariably limit what they cover. And Im 
satisfied that Great  Lakes Insurance has applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably  in 
this case. 
The terms state that Great Lakes Insurance will cover a replacement  product of similar 
specification and functionality up to the policy claim limit; and courier  charges for the product 
to be delivered  but that where  the policyholder is unavailable to take delivery of the 
replacement product following prior agreement that they would  be available, its liability will 
be limited to the delivery back to the couriers distribution centre. Given  the way the policy 
wording is set out, I would  expect  the policy to also say that the cost of installation  of the 
replacement machine and removal of the faulty machine were covered, if that was its 
intention  but the policy doesnt state these  things are covered.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws points, in particular what hes said about 
Great Lakes Insurance saying it would  provide  a replacement,  not simply a new machine. 
Mr W says this might exclude installation but in his book it certainly shouldnt  exclude  
removal of the faulty machine  because  if Great  Lakes Insurance  didnt take away his faulty  
machine it would not have replaced it. Ive also thought very carefully  about  the policy 
Ref: DRN72823792definition of product:  The appliance detailed on the policy  confirmation installed  within  the 
home for domestic use. But, for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that the 
intention here was for the cover  to replace a product that had been  installed  for domestic  use 
(subject to the remaining  policy terms and conditions),  and not necessarily to install the 
replacement machine. And the use of the word replacement, when read in the wider context 
of the policy  wording, doesnt sufficiently persuade me that this meant  
Great Lakes Insurance should also have covered the removal  of Mr Ws faulty  machine (or 
installation).
Mr W has also expressed dissatisfaction because he says he was offered just one model as 
a replacement. And hes said hed like Great Lakes Insurance to change its procedure  for 
sourcing replacement machines. But I dont have the power  to make Great Lakes  Insurance  
change these business practices   Im only able to look at the individual  complaint Mr W has 
made. And Im satisfied that there wasnt any requirement on Great Lakes Insurance to 
provide Mr W with a choice of models  but only to provide a product  of similar specification 
and functionality up to the claim limit
So overall, and while I understand  why Mr W has made  the points that he has, Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes  Insurance  has applied the terms of the policy and dealt with this claim fairly  
and reasonably 
Im aware that Mr W has also referenced the replacement washing machine as being of a 
lower standard  than the machine it replaced.  But hes told us his complaint here is not about 
this point, so my decision does not address this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7282379