K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his central  heating  insurance policy 
with Acromas Insurance Company  Limited.
background
On 16 February 2019, Mr R contacted Acromas after his boiler stopped working.  Acromas  
sent a contractor out the next day. He diagnosed that there was a fault with a pump 
connected to the mains  water supply to the boiler. The contractor also told Mr R there was 
some corrosion to the boiler casing, which meant the boiler was at risk. He told Mr R this 
meant he could not work on the boiler and left without carrying  out any repairs.
The next day, the contractors told Mr R the corrosion to the boiler  casing wasn't covered 
under his policy and advised him to call Acromas  to find out if it would replace the faulty 
pump. Mr R says he called Acromas several times  to find out if the repairs  would be done 
but Acromas wasnt able to give a clear answer and failed  to return  calls.  Eventually 
Acromas told Mr R it would not cover any repairs because the boiler  casing is no longer 
available, so it can't replace it and the boiler is therefore beyond  economic repair.  
Mr R got his own engineer to repair  the boiler. The pump  was replaced but no work  has 
been done on the casing  as he says the engineer  told him it was not unsafe. 
Mr R is very unhappy with Acromass handling of the claim. He has made a number of 
points, which  Ive summarised below: 
 he and his wife were left with no heating and hot water for about  a week due to the 
delays by Acromas. 
 His own independent engineer replaced the pump.  He and another engineer both  
assessed the corrosion on the boiler casing and both said the boiler wasn't  unsafe. 
 The situation has caused him and his wife a great  deal of distress and 
inconvenience and he had to take time off work  to try to get this matter resolved.  
Mr R has asked for the cost of the pump repairs to be reimbursed and £1,000 compensation 
for the trouble caused to him. 
Acromas maintains that the corrosion to the boiler  casing  meant the boiler was at risk and 
this is why its contractor didn't fix the pump on the initial visit. Acromas says as the boiler  is 
beyond economic repair, it will not reimburse  the cost of the pump. 
However, Acromas says Mr R is entitled  to £250 towards to cost of a replacement boiler 
under the policy.  So if he can provide proof that he has had a new boiler fitted, it would 
contribute £250 towards the cost.
It also accepts that the level of service provided  to Mr R during his claim was not adequate 
and offered £200 compensation. I note it later told us it had sent £250 as compensation to 
Mr R.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that the complaint be 
upheld. She said Mr Rs policy doesnt cover the corrosion but she thought Acromas should 
have still replaced  the pump. The investigator  said Acromas should reimburse the cost of the 
Ref: DRN76738612replacement pump  together with interest  at our usual rate but Mr R would need to provide 
evidence of having made the payment first. 
She thought  the £250 compensation  offered was reasonable and didnt recommend any 
further compensation. 
Mr R accepted the investigators assessment  but Acromas did not. It says theres no 
evidence the engineer  was wrong to declare  the boiler at risk. Acromas also again raised 
issues with the invoice provided by Mr R. It says the name of the contractor is not provided 
and there  is still no evidence Mr R paid the amount of the invoice. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas says the boiler could not be worked on as the casing was corroded; and the casing 
is obsolete and cant therefore be replaced. I note what it says about the meaning of the at 
risk notice. And I agree there is no evidence that its engineer  was incorrect in reaching this 
conclusion. Mr R says he was told the casing was safe but no documentary evidence  of this  
has been provided.  
Mr R has provided an invoice for £270, £70 of which was for wiring up the immersion  heater  
on 18 February 2019 (presumably, so he could get hot water)  and £200 for replacing the 
pump. Mr R says he paid part of this invoice in cash and the rest by bank transfer. However, 
no bank statement or proof pf payment  ahs been  provided. 
The invoice doesnt show a contractors name ,address or any contact details and Mr R 
hasnt provided  these either. He said he found  the contractor on a recommendation site and 
as the pump  is not part of the boiler itself, the contractor did not need to be Gas Safe 
registered. Mr R says its not unusual for sole traders  to issue invoices such as this one. 
I have never  seen an invoice which does not provide the name of the person to be paid on it 
and as stated  no other  information about him has been provided. I dont therefore find the 
invoice satisfactory. There is no way of verifying  what work was done  and theres  no 
convincing evidence Acromass contractor was wrong to conclude the pump  should  not have 
been replaced because of the condition of the casing. 
However, having said all that, I still agree with the investigator that Acromas should pay Mr R 
the amount set out in the invoice for replacement of the pump.  I say this because, if Mr R 
had done what  Acromas had advised, hed have replaced the boiler and he would have 
been eligible for a contribution of £250 towards the cost of that. 
Mr R has said the pump  cost him £200 (I dont think it has to pay for wiring of the immersion 
heater). As this is less that he would have been entitled to as a contribution to the new 
boiler, I think it is reasonable for it to pay this amount to Mr R. I do not consider it necessary 
to insist on proof of payment. 
The investigator said interest should  be added  to this payment. Interest is normally added  to 
reflect the fact that a party has been without monies  that are due to them. Without  proof of 
Ref: DRN76738613when Mr R made the payment, I do not consider that Acromas can reasonably be required to 
add interest. 
Mr R also says he thinks additional  compensation of £1,000  is reasonable for the time he 
was without heating  and hot water; having to chase Acromas for a response; and the trouble 
caused to him in having to get the boiler fixed himself. 
I agree  that Acromas  should  have been  able to tell Mr R that it was not going to repair the 
boiler sooner  than it did. That delay meant  Mr R was without heating  and hot water  for longer 
than should have been the case. However,  as theres no proof its decision not to repair  it 
wasnt correct, it is not responsible for the trouble involved in Mr R getting  the pump repaired 
himself. Overall therefore, I consider the £250 already paid is not unreasonable  to reflect  the 
time taken  to deal with the matter and is in line with awards made  in other  similar cases. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Acromas Insurance Company Limited and require  it to 
reimburse £200 for the cost of the pump to Mr R. If Mr R provides proof  of payment of this 
amount, interest  at 8% simple per annum should  be added from the date he paid it to the 
date of reimbursement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7673861