K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Amigo  Loans Ltd gave him a poor service when someone fraudulently 
put his name  down  as a guarantor in a loan application.
background
After Amigo Loans  received  an online  application  for a loan which named Mr R as the 
guarantor, it wrote to him to confirm  the details. He phoned it to say he hadnt  agreed to this. 
But he was unhappy  with the service  it gave him. And he was worried about the impact this 
wouldve on his credit record. So he wanted it to pay him compensation.
Amigo Loans said it has a number of fraud prevention measures in place and one of the 
initial measures is to write to the loan guarantor before  releasing  the money. As soon as Mr 
R told it he didnt know about  the application it immediately marked  this as a potentially 
fraudulent application. And it said it would remove any search  itd made  from his credit 
record. But it didnt think it should  pay compensation because  itd followed all its procedures.
Our investigator didnt  think Amigo Loans  had done anything wrong. She listened to the 
phone calls Mr R had with Amigo Loans and thought  itd handled his concerns satisfactorily. 
So she didnt think it was fair to ask it to pay him any compensation.
Mr R wasnt happy with her opinion and said the credit check  Amigo Loans carried out on 
him has caused him a lot of problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how worried Mr R was when he realised that a fraudulent  application had 
been made with his name as a guarantor.  Ive listened to the phone calls Mr R had with 
Amigo Loans and I could hear how frustrated  Mr R was with the situation. But I think it did its 
best to reassure Mr R that this fraudulent  application wouldnt have any implications  on him 
or his credit record. 
In his final call he said he was worried that his name has now been linked on his credit 
record with the person  who made  the application.  Amigo Loans has reassured him that it 
initially carried out a soft credit search on him but this type of search is not visible  to 
potential lenders. Mr R wasnt happy with this so our investigator  asked  him to send us some  
information such as his credit file to show us how his credit  record  has been affected. But he 
hasnt done so. 
I can see that Amigo Loans has a number of fraud  prevention measures in place and Im 
satisfied its followed those procedures.  And I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude  that 
this has had any impact on Mr Rs credit  record. So although I know  Mr R will be 
disappointed with my decision I dont think Amigo Loans has done anything  wrong. 
Ref: DRN77577462my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7757746