K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs W says Tesco  Personal  Finance  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Mrs W bought  the policy  when applying for a credit card 
by post. The application  form had a section on it dealing  with PPI. This said that Tesco  
strongly recommended the applicant to take the insurance. And if they wanted the cover 
they should tick the box in that section.  I can see that box in that section  in Mrs W signed 
application form has been ticked.  Because of the time that has passed  I can understand 
why Mrs W doesnt  remember this;
Tesco didnt advise  Mrs W to take the PPI so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs W got the information she needed so that she could 
decide if she wanted it and that it met her needs;
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover;
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including what she said about having sick 
pay from her employer  and a right to a redundancy package. She may also have had some 
savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to these leaving them available to help 
her meet her other expenses while she was off work  because  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. Further it was up to Mrs W herself  to decide whether she wanted the policy  
taking into account  her circumstances at the time. So this and her other points dont change 
my decision.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:  
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mrs W, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN71189562To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs W any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs W the difference between  
what Mrs W owes and what  she would have owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Tesco Personal Finance does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
 
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118956