K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Miss S complain that National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) lent money to 
them which was unaffordable.
background
Mr R says NatWest  allowed him an overdraft on two accounts including a joint account  with 
Miss S and gave him a loan, all of which  was unaffordable. Mr R says he had existing debts 
before the lending  of about £45,000  and was on a debt management  plan and also had a 
County Court Judgement  (CCJ) recorded  against him. He says it should have been obvious  
the lending was unaffordable and would  like the balances on all three  accounts  written off as 
well as compensation and a refund of interest and charges.
NatWest says it assessed the applications  and credit scored  them. It says it took into 
account Mr Rs income  and any interest  and charges were correctly applied  in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
Mr R and Miss S brought their complaint to us and our investigator  upheld it in part. In 
summary the investigator thought the overdraft applications were  made  within a day of each 
other and that NatWest  ought to have  carried out further checks. But the investigator also 
thought Mr R had inflated his income  and didnt think it fair to order  NatWest to write off the 
debt as Mr R had benefited from the money. The investigator made  a recommendation that 
NatWest refund interest from the time of the complaint and pay interest  on that amount as 
well as pay £100 compensation.
NatWest agreed with the recommendation  but thought a default  should be recorded.  Mr R 
didnt agree with that view.
The investigator looked again  at the complaint and came to a different  conclusion. In 
summary he thought  Mr R was largely unaffected by the previous debt plan and didnt think  
Mr Rs gambling was an issue  at the time of lending. So he thought the lending was 
affordable and had been  assessed but that NatWest  should have defaulted the loan account  
and personal account  in May 2019.
The investigator recommended  that NatWest place both loan and personal account  in 
recoveries and refund any interest and charges from May 2019 and that NatWest agree  a 
repayment plan.  He also recommended any default  be backdated to that date.
Mr R and Miss S dont accept that view. In summary Mr R says NatWest should  write of the 
account balances  as it didnt consider the impact  of the CCJ and should have looked  again 
at the accounts  when  he started gambling.  He also says the overdraft amounts were 
disproportionate when  his previous debt problems were considered.  Mr R says NatWest  
should have considered the impact on his children and says he doesnt  want  the joint 
account defaulted which NatWest says will happen if the other  accounts  are.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator in his second view. I realise Mr R and Miss S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ref: DRN74698242There is no need for me to go into great detail into the background of this complaint as its 
well known  to the parties.  I have  looked at the applications Mr R made  for credit  and Im 
satisfied that they were  affordable and were appropriately credit  scored  by NatWest. I 
appreciate that Mr R had a debt management plan in place and had a CCJ recorded against  
him. But I also think that the debt management plan meant  that although Mr R had debts 
they were being  paid off via that route,  the effect was that his present income was largely 
unaffected.
I appreciate that Mr R says he has a gambling problem and that NatWest  should have 
recognised that. But I agree with the investigator  that at the time of the applications that 
there didnt  appear  to be excessive gambling transactions  and the account appeared well 
run. I accept  Mr R says that when the gambling did become excessive then NatWest  should 
have reconsidered  the position.  But I dont think NatWest could have done anything at that 
stage and also has to consider that ultimately  its Mr Rs decision on how he spends.
Im satisfied that NatWest  ought to have defaulted the loan account and personal account 
within three to six months of the obvious  difficulties. But has now fairly agreed  to do so. I 
appreciate that Mr R says he doesnt want the joint account to be passed to NatWest 
recoveries department. But whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R that is not a decision I can 
fairly interfere in as I think such matters  are for NatWest to decide  upon when exercising its 
commercial judgement.
Im also satisfied that Mr R had the benefit  of the money. So even if I thought  that lending 
was unaffordable I would  not have  ordered  that NatWest  write of the amount of borrowing. I 
make that clear to Mr R as I can see that is what he would have liked to have happened.  
Overall I think  that the investigator has proposed a fair and reasonable recommendation in 
the circumstances of this complaint including what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. I realise Mr R and Miss S will remain unhappy with my decision  and for the 
reasons I have explained that by accepting my decision there may be implications  for their 
joint account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I order National Westminster Bank Plc to refund charges and interest on the loan account 
and Mr Rs personal account from May 2019  and to backdate the date of default  to that date 
and pay 8%* simple  interest on that amount.  And agree a repayment  plan without  interest or 
charges with Mr R and pay £100 compensation.
*If Her Majestys Inland Revenue and Customers require you to deduct tax from the interest 
then a certificate showing this deduction should  be given to Mr R. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7469824