K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 to cover  mortgage 
payments. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were advised to cancel an existing  PPI policy  and take out a new 
one. They say they werent  told the PPI was optional.  However,  it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence. Where someone  
has said another person or organisation has done  something wrong,  fairness requires that 
the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this probably did happen.  It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they didnt do something  wrong,  especially 
when it was such a long time ago. And I dont  have strong evidence  of what exactly was said 
to Mr and Mrs C  for example whether it was a strong recommendation (which wouldnt 
necessarily be wrong) or an actual statement that it was compulsory. And as this was so 
long ago, I wouldnt know how reliably  the details  of what happened have been  remembered. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Cs genuine consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
I think Aviva recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Ref: DRN71365672Mr and Mrs Cs particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Cs situation at the time. Its likely  Mr C (the person covered) was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr C received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living  costs.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs C in a more  secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it 
out. So I think the PPI would  have  been potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
would have been suitable. 
I dont have enough information to say whether the apparent advice, to replace the old 
PPI policy with a new one, was a suitable recommendation. So I cant  fairly say that was 
poor advice. 
 
Its hard to know how well Aviva explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs C took the PPI.
Its possible Aviva didnt  clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C would have  been  affected by any of these. And Mr and Mrs C would be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7136567