K820x#14complaint
This complaints about two mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies taken  out 
in 1990 and 2004. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Regarding the PPI sold in 2004, I can see Lloyds has accepted our adjudicators finding that 
it was mis-sold and the recommendation that it give Mr and Mrs H back all of the cost of the 
PPI. Its already offered to put things right for them as explained later in this decision, so I 
see no need to address  that sale in more  detail here.
Regarding the PPI sold in 1990, Ive decided that it wasnt mis-sold because:
Theres, understandably, little information  thats  still available  from the time. But, I cant  
see anything to show Lloyds didnt make it clear that Mr and Mrs H had a choice about  
taking out the PPI and that they didnt choose to take it out  although I can understand 
why they cant  remember this after all this time.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check it was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr H, as the person insured, likely wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits  on, the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need for the cover  despite 
Mr Hs entitlement to full sick pay from his employer for a time and support from his 
family, which wasnt guaranteed.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it should have  been. But it appears they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN75429972Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said  including what theyve said about 
trusting the adviser  and just signing the paperwork (presumably without reading it). But these  
points dont change  my decision.
what Lloyds needs to do regarding the PPI sold in 1990
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs H any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
what Lloyds needs to do regarding the PPI sold in 2004
Lloyds should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out PPI 
in 2004. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and Lloyds 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year *.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Lloyds can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. It can also take off anything  its 
already paid them regarding commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds  must  give 
Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
The PPI policy sold in 1990 wasnt mis-sold   so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
In terms of the PPI sold in 2004, Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right for Mr and Mrs H 
as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7542997