K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her as it didnt  complete  reasonable 
and proportionate checks before approving her for a guarantor  loan.  She says this loan 
caused her financial  difficulty in the form of additional interest and charges.
background
UK Credit approved  Miss R for a guarantor loan in November 2016. The loan was £6,000, 
with 48-month  term, and monthly repayments  of £282.49. Miss R says at the time she 
applied for this loan she was in financial difficulties. She says she had taken  a number of 
payday loans,  and was struggling  to manage her existing level of debt. She says UK Credit  
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  before deciding to lend to her.
UK Credit says its decision to lend to Miss R was fair. It says it asked Miss R to provide 
details of her income, which UK Credit then compared to the national average for outgoings. 
UK Credit also completed a credit check on Miss R. In addition,  it had a discussion with Miss 
R over her existing payday loans  and other  credit  commitments. It took details of these 
existing debts and discussed using Miss Rs loan as a way of consolidating her overall 
debts. It says because  of all these actions, it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  She argued 
that whilst  UK Credit had asked Miss R about  the details of her payday loans, it should have 
completed further thorough checks before deciding to lend. She argued had UK Credit done 
this as it was proportionate  to in the circumstances, then it wouldve  seen  the extent of 
Miss Rs financial difficulties  and ought to have  realised the loan was unaffordable to her.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has been passed to me to issue  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Miss Rs 
complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Rs complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to understand 
if any lending was affordable to Miss R. The relevant rules dont set out which specific  
checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks 
could include things  such as a customers income  (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
Miss R was approved  for a loan in November 2016. The total amount was £6,000  spread 
over 48 repayments of £282.49. Miss R says she was in financial difficulties at the time, 
including taking a number of payday loans.
Ref: DRN76155112As UK Credit gave Miss R a loan that was to be repaid in instalments, the checks which it 
conducted also had to provide enough  information  for it to able to decide  if she could afford 
the monthly payments when they became due for the duration of the intended term. And 
even if reasonable  and proportionate checks have been completed, UK Credit  still had an 
obligation to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly to her. 
UK Credit completed a credit search and completed  an income  assessment  which  it 
compared to the national  average outgoings. UK Credit also had calls with Miss R in which it 
discusses her existing  payday  loans and consolidating down these debts. It says these 
checks combined were proportionate to the amount being lent, and demonstrated the loan 
would be affordable to Miss R. 
Ive considered what UK Credit has said about  the affordability of the loan based  on the 
checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree  these checks were proportionate  in this 
instance. As Ive explained above it isnt enough for UK Credit  to just complete  checks,  it still 
needs to consider carefully the information  it is supplied by a borrower  before deciding  to 
lend.
In this instance, based on the information Miss R provided, I dont think  UK Credits  checks 
went far enough. I say this because Miss R had explained she was needing to consolidate 
several existing payday  loans  and credit commitments with this loan. This would suggest 
that she had previously taken large  numbers of short-term loans and was struggling  to meet 
these commitments. As such I would expect UK Credit to get a better understanding of 
Miss Rs financial circumstances in order to assess if it was responsible for it to approve 
further lending.
These further checks couldve included checking  Miss Rs bank  statements. Ive reviewed 
Miss Rs bank statements  from the time leading up to her application with UK Credit, and it is 
evident that she is not managing her finances  well. As well as the already mentioned payday 
loans, Miss R is regularly in her overdraft,  and is struggling to meet  her outgoing  
commitments. It is also evident  that Miss R has further credit commitment  other  than those 
discussed in her call with UK Credit. So, I think had UK Credit reviewed these statements it 
ought reasonably  to have realised the loan wouldve been unaffordable to Miss R.
UK Credit has highlighted that Miss R was taking the loan out to consolidate  her existing 
payday loan debts. Whilst that mayve  been  the case; the fact is Miss R still had substantial 
debts on her other accounts  and these existing credit commitments mean that even with the 
consolidated monthly payment the overall  cost of this loan, it wouldve still unfairly 
contributed to her overall level of indebtedness. Again,  had UK Credit conducted further  
checks it ought to have realised this too, and declined the application. 
So for the above reasons,  Im satisfied this loan was irresponsibly lent to Miss R as it was 
unaffordable for her. 
Ref: DRN76155113my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require UK Credit Limited to do the following:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Rs account  from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Miss R has made as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Miss R having paid more than what she was initially lent, then any 
extra should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to Miss R plus 8% simple  
interest on this amount  from date of payment to date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Miss Rs account after all adjustments  have 
been made, then UK Credit Limited needs  to come to suitable  repayment plan with 
Miss R to pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Rs credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2020..
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
UK Credit Limited must give Miss R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN7615511