K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund money which  he says he paid into his 
account.
background
Mr B says he used a self-serve machine to deposit some  cash into his account.  He  thinks it 
was about £390.  He  also thought he had a receipt for it but then realised he may have been 
mistaken.
The transaction was said to have  taken place in April 2018.   Barclays investigated matters 
but decided to reject Mr Bs complaint.  It said there  was no evidence of any surplus cash in 
the machines  during the period  Mr B had gone  into branch.
So, Mr B came to this service  where  our investigator looked into matters for him.  She did 
not think she could  ask Barclays to do anymore either so the matter was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be upholding this complaint either.
This service has asked Barclays to evidence  the machines balanced on the day Mr B says 
he made his deposit   and subsequent  days.  The evidence shows  the machines balanced, 
no cash was left in surplus and no fault had occurred.
The machines also have no record of £390  being deposited that day.
Barclays has also told us that the type of machine which Mr B had used is not one which  
automatically produces receipts  so Mr B must  have been mistaken when he said he 
thought he had one.
I know Mr B insists  that CCTV will show he was in branch that day and was depositing  
money  but it has been explained  to him that CCTV no longer exists  due to the delay in him 
raising the complaint.  So, my decision can only be based on the evidence that we do have.
Based on what I have seen, I cannot fairly  ask Barclays to refund this money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7558078