K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc gave him misleading information when it declined a 
credit card application. Hes also complained that Santander completed an unnecessary 
credit search and that its reporting inaccurate information to the credit reference agencies.  
background
Mr A applied online for a credit card with Santander  in 2018 but the application was declined. 
Mr A says Santander initially said itd found  information on Mr As credit  file that meant  it 
couldnt proceed. After complaining, Santander  explained that as Mr A had declared a £0 
income his application didnt meet its lending criteria so couldnt  proceed. 
Mr A complained and said hed been led to believe there was a problem with his credit file 
which was wrong. He obtained a copy and said Santander was failing to report  information 
about funds he had in his current account. Mr A says if his income  was too low completing a 
credit search wasnt necessary as his application could never have proceeded. 
Santander didnt  uphold Mr As complaint but did pay him £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr A 
referred his complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked  at what  had happened. But 
they thought Santander  had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly so didnt ask it to take any 
further action. As Mr A remains unhappy his complaints been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised several concerns and Id like to start by dealing  with the information 
Santander reports to the credit  reference agencies about his current  account. I understand 
Mr A has funds  in his current account  that arent shown on his credit file. But the credit file 
doesnt report funds  consumers have, only information about credit  facilities  in their name. 
When someone has a current account  the bank doesnt report how much  is in their account,  
only how much  they owe if theyre  overdrawn.  So Ive not found  Santander  has failed to 
correctly report information here.  
Mr A says he was given confusing information  about why his application  wasnt accepted. 
But Ive looked  at the information Santander  initially provided when Mr As application was 
declined and while I accept its generic  in nature, I dont think its misleading. When Mr A 
followed up with Santander  it explained  the income figure hed declared of £0 meant  the 
application wasnt successful. 
Like the adjudicator,  I wouldnt expect a lender to give a specific reason for declining  an 
application because  it risks releasing  commercially  sensitive  information about its lending 
criteria. But Im satisfied when Mr A asked  he was given more information  about why his 
application wasnt successful. 
Santanders confirmed  that a credit  search will be recorded for Mr A with the credit  reference 
agencies but the result of the application isnt reported and I think thats reasonable. Mr A 
has asked why Santander completed the credit search at all if his income didnt meet the 
minimum requirements for its lending criteria.  I appreciate Mr As point  and if this had been a 
Ref: DRN79737932face to face application  with an advisor Id have expected them to take his income into 
account before completing a credit search. 
But in this case, Mr A applied  online  without  Santanders direct involvement.  Santander  
published its lending  criteria, including the minimum  income figure of £7,500,  on its website 
and Im satisfied it was available to Mr A at the time of application. I think Santander 
provided reasonable warning that applications  with a lower  level of income  wouldnt be 
successful prior to Mr A making his application. 
I accept theres no specific check in Santanders  systems  to ensure applications that dont 
meet basic  income  criteria dont move  on to a credit  search. But, as a service, we cant  tell a 
business how to operate  or what its systems should  look like. And Im satisfied that by 
providing the basic lending criteria at the point of application Santander made the minimum 
income figure clear  to potential applicants. I havent found Santander acted unfairly by 
proceeding with the automated application  when Mr A asked it to. 
There does appear  to have been some confusion when the application  was initially  declined  
caused by the generic nature of Santanders  rejection letter.  But Im satisfied the confusion  
was resolved reasonably quickly and Santander  paid Mr A £25 as a gesture of goodwill 
which I think is fair in all the circumstances. As I think Santanders dealt with Mr As 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action now. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7973793