K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a series of payments made using his 
debit card and which  he says he didnt make or authorise.
Background
Mr H was at an overseas conference. He told us hed spent an evening  drinking with clients  
at his hotel complex  and that he returned  to his hotel room  in the early hours of the morning. 
At breakfast he realised his HSBC debit card was missing from his wallet. He says he hadnt  
used this card while  he was abroad, but he kept the hotel room key card in his wallet  and he 
thinks his card mustve fallen out of his wallet when he took the key card out.
He phoned HSBC that morning to report the card missing, and a stop was placed on the 
card.
When he returned home, he realised his card had been used for two cash  machine 
withdrawals and several supermarket payments of more than £1,500.
HSBC looked  into the transactions that Mr H said he didnt make,  but decided it wouldnt 
refund them.  It thought  Mr H had authorised  all of the transactions.  Mr H didnt accept  that 
and referred the case to this service.
Our investigator concluded that the cash machine  withdrawals were made using Mr Hs card 
and his PIN. And that theres no explanation as to how someone  other  than Mr H knew  the 
PIN number.  He said it was most likely that the supermarket transactions were carried  out by 
the same  person, and on that basis he couldnt  recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr H didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He did not carry out the transactions.
There were three unsuccessful attempts to withdraw cash when the daily cash  
withdrawal limit had been  reached, but he knows  the limit is £250.
There were attempted transactions after hed phoned to report the card missing.
HSBC shouldve identified the supermarket transactions as fraud and put an immediate 
stop on his card.  There was an attempt to use the card in several supermarkets in just 
over two hours.
He didnt give anyone  his PIN number.  And hes seen research that concludes it is 
possible to use a stolen card in a chip and PIN terminal without knowing the PIN, or to 
copy the card and overlay a new PIN onto it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76827152Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Im satisfied the disputed  transactions  were  made  using Mr Hs genuine card,  rather  than a 
copy of it. That is consistent  with him finding  his card missing  from his wallet  when the 
transactions were  made. So while I accept that Mr H didnt have his card when he woke up, 
I have to look at the wider  circumstances to decide  whether HSBC should be held liable for 
the transactions here.
The information Ive been provided  with shows that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN number 
were used for the cash machine  transactions. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the 
card itself and its unlikely anyone would have  been able to guess it.
Mr H has suggested that a device couldve been used in the cash  machine to confuse the 
technology into accepting  any PIN. But Ive not seen evidence to suggest that this technique, 
or something  similar, was used here.  I think its more likely that the genuine PIN was used.
The bank says that there was no obvious  point of compromise on the PIN. And I think  thats 
right. Mr H told us he hadnt used  his card while hed been overseas. The last time hed 
completed a transaction using the PIN was in the UK. So its not very likely that someone 
had observed his PIN and then followed him to another  country in the hope  that he might 
drop his card.
This leaves  the most likely explanation  that Mr H consented to the transactions  by either  
carrying them out himself  or by allowing  someone else to.
The point of sale transactions were  completed  by chip and signature.  I find it likely that the 
person who carried  out the cash machine transactions  was the same person who carried out 
the point of sale transactions. I say this because whoever made the cash  machine 
transactions already had Mr Hs card and these  point of sale transactions  were  made  in the 
same area.
I cant completely rule out the possibility  that events unfolded as Mr H has described and the 
precise details of what happened here unfortunately remain unclear. But, based on the 
evidence and on balance,  I think its more likely  that Mr Hs involvement was greater than he 
suggests. I think its most likely that he consented to the payments.
Ive taken into account that Mr H says HSBC shouldve  identified these transactions as 
fraudulent and placed an immediate stop on the card. But I dont think  that this affects  the 
situation here, because, for the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied that its most  likely 
that Mr H consented  to these payments. Like our investigator, I cant  find any reasonable 
explanation as to how someone  other  than Mr H couldve known his PIN, based  on what  
both parties have told us. And I cant see that the person who carried out the point of sale 
purchases was a different person to the individual who carried  out the cash  machine 
withdrawals.
Ref: DRN76827153Ive considered whether the transactions  were sufficiently unusual  or out of character that 
HSBC ought to have been concerned  about them and intervened. But these  were  payments 
made in another country, while Mr H was on a business trip. So any payments made in this 
context wouldnt look like his normal spending  in the UK. And, in any event - as Im satisfied 
he either authorised  them  himself or consented  to someone else using his card to make 
them  I dont think the nature of the transactions, or the fact the bank didnt  flag them 
affects the outcome here.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I cant find that HSBC was wrong to conclude that it shouldnt 
refund the disputed  transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7682715