K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  wont pay her claim for water damage  to her 
property under her holiday  home insurance.
background
In March 2018 Mrs P reported a claim to Ageas following her discovery of damage  to her 
holiday home after a pipe froze and then burst. Ageas said after investigating  that Mrs P was 
in breach of a condition in her policy requiring her to keep her home continuously heated 
where it was unoccupied  for more than 72 hours.  She wasnt able to produce  utility bills to 
show the property  had been  heated as it had oil fired heating.  She had bought the property 
in December 2016 and produced a letter from the previous owner  to say the tank was half 
full. She hadnt  needed to fill it up. Her brother who lives nearby also said he visited  the 
property nearly every  day and checked  the boiler settings.
Ultimately Ageas said that wasnt enough and still declined the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint, as he thought that 
Mrs P hadnt  produced  sufficient evidence to show she had complied with the policy 
condition.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the policy  there is an Unoccupancy  condition  as follows:
It is a condition during  the period 1st November to 31st March (inclusive) that whenever  the 
Home is Unoccupied  for more than 72 consecutive hours You must ensure that:
1) the water supply  is turned  off at the mains and the water system drained
OR
2) there is a fully working central heating system which is set to operate continuously for 
24 hours each day at a temperature of not less than 10 degrees Celsius/50 degrees 
Fahrenheit.
If this condition is not met any claims relating to the following  Causes or Extra  benefits will 
be void and not paid:
 Escape of water or oil from any fixed water or heating installation  or domestic appliance
 Water and heating installations
 Tracing  and accessing leaks
We reserve the right to request sight of utility bills for verification.
The property was unoccupied at the time of the incident. Mrs Ps brother said he had visited  
the property the day before, so it seems  likely  that the pipes froze overnight then thawed the 
next day. It is for Mrs P to show  that she complied with that condition.
Unfortunately, as the system is oil fired, there  are no utility bills to show  regular  usage.  Mrs P 
has confirmed that she didnt have any oil delivered  in the period  from December  2016  
(when she bought  the property)  until March  2018.  She has produced  a letter  from the 
previous owner  saying  half a tank was left which in his opinion  should have lasted for a  
Ref: DRN74128612winter. But there are no formal records to show that. Nor do I know  whether that would have 
taken account  of keeping the heating on continuously at 10 degrees C. 
Mrs P has said that she didnt use the heating over the December 2016 to March  2017 
period. Although that explains why she hadnt  had to buy more  oil, it also indicates that shed 
previously left the property unheated over the winter.
I understand that a plumber serviced  the boiler in May 2017 but he didnt make a note of 
how much  oil was in the tank. And whilst I understand Mrs Ps brother has said he made 
sure the heating was on, I dont know if that was in full compliance with the policy term, i.e. 
on continuously for not less than 10 degrees Celsius.
I dont think it would  have  been fair to reject the claim only because there were no utility  bills. 
But Ageas didnt do that. it has looked  at other evidence, which I have noted  above.
Taking all the evidence into consideration I dont think that Mrs P has been able to show  that 
she most likely  kept the heating on continuous in compliance with the policys  unoccupied 
condition. So I think Ageas acted reasonably and that means  I wont  uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7412861