K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained about advice he received from Portafina LLP (Portafina)  to switch a 
defined contribution occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former  employer 
to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr K is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr K.
Background
In June 2013 Mr K was approached by a financial adviser Firm  C who offered him pension  
advice. Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of Firm  S. Firm C had an 
established working relationship with Portafina, who were authorised  to provide pension 
switch and transfer advice. Firm C completed  a fact find and then referred  Mr K to Portafina.
The agreed arrangement between the two firms was that Portafina would only advise on the 
switch/transfer  Firm C would advise on the investments and take over the agency  of the 
new SIPP  once the transfer had been  completed. Because  Portafina  were not giving 
investment advice, they also did not assess Mr Ks attitude to risk (ATR) or capacity for 
loss, which  would be performed by Firm C.
At the time of the advice, Mr K was aged  54. He had a paid-up defined  contribution  plan 
through his ex-employer worth approximately £60,000 and no other  pension  provision. 
Portafina noted Mr Ks objectives as wanting to release his tax-free cash  (TFC)  once  he 
attained age 55 but leave  the remaining funds invested for a further 10 years  until age 65. 
The Fact Find documented that Mr K had £2,000 in savings and no other  readily available  
funds that could be used.
Mr Ks existing  pension  plan had a total annual charge of 0.13%. It was invested  80% in a 
Diversified Assets fund and 20% in a Global Equities  fund, which were broadly medium risk 
in nature. Portafinas research confirmed an average performance of the two funds of 
12.69% over the previous year. 
Portafina recommended that Mr K switch his existing OPS to a SIPP. The funds would 
initially be held in cash until Firm C took over the agency of the SIPP and provided  their 
investment advice.
The Suitability Report  of January 2014 confirms that Mr K would be charged  an initial advice 
fee of 5% by Portafina, of which 2% would  be paid to Firm C in their role as introducer to 
Portafina. The SIPP would charge  an initial fee of 0.2% per annum  on the fund remaining 
after TFC and an annual fee of 0.425% plus £80.
The switch  completed  and shortly after, Firm C issued their Suitability Report  in 
February 2014 in respect of their investment  advice  to Mr K. The suitability report documents 
that Mr Ks ATR was assessed as five on a scale of seven.  Their model investment portfolio 
for this risk rating was 10% low risk, 40% medium risk and 50% high risk. The portfolio they 
recommended consisted  of approximately 39% regulated investments and 61% unregulated 
collective investment schemes  (UCIS). The risk rating of all of these investments was 
undocumented, although a separate risk warning did explain that it had been explained to 
Mr K that non-regulated alternative investments (such as UCIS) were deemed high risk. 
Ref: DRN74610922The investment recommendation would also result in additional fund charges  of 
approximately 1% per annum.
In 2018 Mr K complained that the advice to switch  his OPS was unsuitable for him as he did 
not need to take his TFC. He also said Portafina were responsible for the unsuitable  
investment advice provided by Firm C because he was at most medium  risk but ended up in 
high risk unregulated  investments. Portafina didnt agree, explaining that their advice was 
suitable as it achieved Mr Ks objective of releasing  his TFC. It said Firm C was responsible 
for any investment  advice.  Mr K referred his complaint to our service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and recommended it should  be upheld.  He said that 
the existing investment funds were performing adequately and the OPS charges were  low, 
so there  was an unrealistic prospect of improved returns  when also accounting for the advice 
and higher SIPP fees. He accepted  that Mr K wanted access  to his TFC but this objective 
could have been met by a cheaper alternative  plan. He said that the FCA had previously  
issued an alert that pension transfer  advice must also cover  the subsequent investments, so 
Portafina were responsible for Mr Ks losses. The adjudicator said the investment advice 
was unsuitable  because high risk UCIS investments should not have  been  promoted to an 
individual who was neither high net-worth  nor a sophisticated investor.  The adjudicator 
recommended that Mr K should be put back into the position he wouldve been  in but for the 
unsuitable advice  and that Portafina  should pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Portafina disagreed,  they said the pension switch  was still suitable as it met Mr Ks objective 
of releasing his TFC. They said that they had conducted adequate due diligence  on Firm C 
and so they were  not responsible for Firm Cs investment  advice, as the FCA allowed for a 
two adviser model.  They also said that any monetary  award  to Mr K should  consider any 
monies available from the Financial  Services  Compensation  Scheme (FSCS)  in respect of 
Firm C, who were  in liquidation.
The adjudicators view remained  and the complaint was referred for a final decision.
Prior to the complaint being  allocated to me, a case reviewer clarified with Portafina that it 
was accepted the switch  was most likely  suitable because  of Mr Ks need to access his TFC. 
However, the FCA alert of 2013  confirmed that pension transfer/switch advice needed to 
demonstrate suitability of the transaction as a whole,  including  any subsequent investment 
advice, even if that advice was given  by another regulated firm. He also confirmed  that Mr K 
had already made a claim to the FSCS  for the losses stemming  from the investment advice 
from Firm C, but it was rejected because a separate claim had also been made against 
Portafina and the FSCS  is a fund of last resort.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Portafina recommended that Mr K switch his OPS to a SIPP but it says that it didnt  assess  
Mr Ks ATR or provide advice as to the investments within the SIPP  because  this was being  
provided by Firm C. So, in the suitability letter, Portafina based  its recommendation on the 
transferred funds being held as cash until Firm C made their investment recommendations.
Ref: DRN74610923Mr K accepted the recommendation and Portafina  arranged for the SIPP  to be set up, the 
OPS funds to be switched and for the funds  to be fully invested in cash.  Shortly after this 
was completed,  the servicing  rights  for the SIPP were transferred to Firm C. Firm C 
subsequently arranged for the SIPP funds to purchase  a number of investments, the majority 
of which  were unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  But even if it wasnt  specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, I think Portafina needed  to have an awareness of the intended  investments  in 
order to give suitable advice. This remains  the case even if Firm C was actually providing 
that advice. It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a 
pension switch to make an assessment of their clients ATR and consider the overall 
investment strategy  that applies to that proposed switch.  This would include a broad 
understanding of the proposed investments,  before it could determine whether  the switch  
was in Mr Ks best interest.
The regulators position
In forming this view,  I have taken account  of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry  practice at the relevant 
time. These include the overarching Principles for Businesses.  Principles 1 (integrity), 2 
(skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers'  interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here. 
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules  
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant  time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portafina to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr K. It 
had to obtain information as to Mr Ks knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific  
type of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives. 
COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather sufficient information from Mr K to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and that he had 
the necessary  experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And under COBS  2.1.1R Portafina  had to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client." 
Furthermore, as the adjudicator explained in his opinion, on 18 January 2013  the regulator  at 
the time issued an alert about advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension  
monies into unregulated  products through a SIPP.  
The regulator made its position clear  in the alert,  where it said:
The FSA's view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes,  it should  be particularly dear to financial advisers that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment  
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating (...)
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated  elements.
Ref: DRN74610924I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance  or rules or 
standards in the sense  that such requirements  are specified by the regulator  in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant  consideration  when determining  this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  
of the case.
In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert,  the other firm that 
made the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP  was an 
unregulated introducer. Whereas in Mr Ks case, Firm C was authorised  to conduct  
investment business  under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be 
pursued for compensation by a consumer within the financial  services  regulatory regime.  
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Ks transaction 
from the scenario  that the alert was aimed  at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mr K that it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying 
investments as Firm C was doing  that. Whilst  Ive given  that possibility careful thought,  
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those  very specific circumstances. 
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ks case).  It further  refers  to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases,  regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where  the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated  investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. I think  
the alert is relevant to firms in the position  of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014  which stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Both alerts indicates such firms should  not be giving advice on a restricted basis.  The 
regulator didnt  consider  a firm could reasonably  separate out the two elements of the 
transaction; its advice  on the suitability of the transfer should  include consideration of the 
suitability of the underlying investments.
Ref: DRN74610925Portafina says that its advisers carried out extensive  due diligence  on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company  directors, accounts and information  about previous 
complaints. It also said it requested details of the investment strategy  Firm C was likely to 
deploy for clients such as Mr K. Portafina says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified  to 
provide investment advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess  the pension  
transfer and the other to provide investment advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it made weren't specific to the investments envisaged  for Mr K. And 
as Portafina hadnt even  assessed Mr Ks ATR or suggested a portfolio that wouldve been 
suitable for him, any general details it received about the investment strategy Firm C 
wouldve deployed for clients like Mr K wouldnt have given it any reassurance that this 
strategy would  be suitable  for him. 
I also havent seen  any evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself 
that the pension transfer  and switch advice it was giving to clients was aligned  with the 
investment advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part 
of the suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But I think  it was 
also a reasonable due diligence requirement  brought about by the ongoing relationship it 
had with Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns  of unsuitable or unaligned advice, 
which could be identified  and addressed.
Portafina says that it was satisfied Firm C was able to introduce clients and advise on 
investments without breaching the relevant rules.  And it says that as Firm C and Firm S were 
bound by the then regulators rules, they had a duty to provide suitable advice and their 
clients would  have  recourse through the FSCS. I agree that by virtue of its AR agreement 
Firm C was required  to give suitable advice; but this didnt absolve Portafina from its 
responsibility to do the same. And in my view it could only reasonably  assess  the suitability 
of the switch if consideration was given  to the expected  underlying assets of the SIPP.  
To my mind,  the combined  effect of these  rules, standards and statements is that, when 
giving advice on a pension switch, the regulator  expects the advising firm to consider the 
suitability of the transaction as a whole, including the investments that are expected to 
comprise the underlying assets  of the pension scheme. 
Prior to the introduction to Portafina,  Firm C had already completed a fact find for Mr K. So 
I think its likely that Firm C had in mind a portfolio of intended investments before Portafina 
was involved.  The fact find completed  by Firm C justified the selection of the SIPP provider, 
due to request of funds available specifically  from this advisor.  This demonstrates  that 
Firm C did have  a pre-conception of the funds that would be recommended  prior to Portafina 
providing their advice, and also confirms  that the Portafina advisor was privy to this 
information as this fact find was passed  to Portafina.
Firm C advised Mr K to invest  a significant proportion of his SIPP in unregulated 
investments. Portafina says it did not know this was Firm Cs intention;  but it would have, 
had it found out about  the intended investments as I consider it was required to do  they 
were part and parcel of the advice to switch.  But it appears that in giving its advice to switch  
his pension, Portafina failed to check how Firm C broadly proposed  to invest Mr Ks money. 
And as it hadnt carried out any assessment of Mr Ks ATR, even if it had been provided  with 
Ref: DRN74610926information about the investments Firm C envisaged  for Mr K, it wouldnt have  been  able to 
offer any opinion on whether this was suitable for him.
If Portafina had carried  out an assessment of Mr Ks ATR, as I believe  it should have 
regardless of whether it was giving advice  on the investments, and then requested  details of 
the portfolio Firm C intended for Mr K, it wouldve found out that Firm C intended to invest  
Mr Ks funds  in a number  of UCIS.  It then couldve  questioned this, given how at odds it this 
wouldve been for such an inexperienced  investor  as Mr K, who,  in my view had at most, a 
medium ATR. And in the event that Portafina had been misled  by Firm C as to the proposed 
investments, then its likely Mr K wouldve realised that the investments Firm C went on to 
arrange differed  to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment on. And Mr K 
couldve taken action  accordingly. 
I accept, of course, that there is a possibility that Firm C may not have been entirely 
forthcoming to Portafina  about its plans to spread a significant portion of Mr Ks portfolio over 
high risk unregulated  investments. Nonetheless,  I do think that if Portafinas  suitability report 
had clearly outlined  its assessment  of Mr Ks ATR and the investment  portfolio Firm C had 
said it expected  to recommend, this would at least have  given Mr K an opportunity  to raise 
any discrepancies  between that expectation and the actual investments arranged with 
Firm C and/or Portafina.
Mr K has complained that Portafina failed in its duty of care as it didnt have a system in 
place to follow up with Firm C to ensure its recommendation was in line with Mr Ks ATR and 
capacity for loss. I dont  think its unreasonable to suggest that, as part of Portafinas 
compliance checks, it shouldve followed up its recommendations by asking to see Firm Cs 
own suitability report for Mr K regarding the underlying investments before the investments 
were arranged. That way it couldve satisfied itself that the transaction  was proceeding in line 
with the investment proposition on which its recommendation should have been based  and 
that it was aligned to its own assessment of Mr Ks ATR.  If it had done  so, it could have 
taken steps to ensure that the high-risk unregulated investments, which had not been  
contemplated when  recommending  the transfer, were not made. 
All in all, it is my view that Portafina failed to make an assessment of Mr Ks ATR and failed 
to take adequate steps to consider the investment proposition for Mr K as a whole  when 
assessing the suitability of Mr Ks proposed switch from his OPS.  Im satisfied  that if the 
appropriate steps had been  taken to ask Firm C for its investment proposition, Portafina 
wouldve seen that the proposed investments were unsuitable for Mr K and the 
recommendation to switch  his pension on that basis wouldnt  have been given. 
Was the advice  to switch  suitable?
Ill now consider whether  the switch ought to have been recommended in any event. It is 
clear from Mr Ks background and circumstances that he satisfied the FCA definition of a 
Retail Client  i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible counterparty.  Therefore, 
he was entitled  to rights and protections afforded to Retail Clients  and was clearly  reliant  on 
the advice given to him. From the evidence I have seen there  is also no suggestion  
whatsoever that he was either high-net worth  or a sophisticated investor.
I have thought about how the recommendation addressed Mr Ks objectives,  as stated in 
Portafinas suitability  report, namely:  to be able to take tax free cash  at 55 without  taking the 
income available until your desired retirement age. His intention  was to defer  taking any 
income from the remaining fund until he was 65.
Ref: DRN74610927Shortly after Portafina gave its advice, Mr K reached his 55th birthday, the age from which he 
could access his pension  fund if he so wished. Portafinas research into his existing OPS 
amounted to a telephone call to the administrator,  yet this did not confirm if the existing 
arrangement would allow him to take his TFC and defer taking an income. So, I think  they 
should have confirmed whether it was necessary to switch the pension in order  to meet  
Mr Ks objectives. However, I am mindful  that the advice was before pension  flexibility rules  
were introduced in 2015. So, on balance, I think it is unlikely Mr Ks existing plan had the 
flexibility to enable him to take his TFC and defer taking any income.  So, I think  it is 
reasonable to conclude  that Mr K would  have needed to switch  his plan to an alternative 
provider to achieve this objective.
Although Portafina  established that Mr K wanted  to access  his TFC they did not establish  the 
reason why or consider  the financial impact on Mr K. 
Mr Ks recollections of how he spent the TFC have changed, from buying  a new car to 
renovating his kitchen  and paying off some  debts. I have listened  to the telephone 
conversation between the adjudicator  and Mr K, during which the adjudicator specifically 
asked Mr K if he needed to access his TFC and if so, for what purpose. Mr K was clear  that 
he did need access to the TFC for expensive repairs to his bathroom  so that his home could 
be lived in properly. His account of this in the telephone call was clear, so Im satisfied that 
this was his intention at the time the advice was given by Portafina.
The suitability report set out the alternatives that had been considered before recommending 
the switch. However,  these were limited to alternative ways of accessing the pension fund. 
They did not consider how Mr Ks objectives  could have been  met without accessing his 
pension fund. For example, arranging a loan or using savings. I think Portafina should have 
considered all potential  alternatives to demonstrate they were giving suitable  advice. 
I have thought about whether there was a viable  alternative. Mr K had insufficient  savings  
and would appear to have  also had some debt, and it is also clear  to me that he was intent 
on accessing his TFC.  So, I am not persuaded that increasing this debt would have been a 
suitable alternative and so I think  it is reasonable to conclude that accessing his TFC was 
the most  suitable  option for him.
I have thought about what would  have been  a suitable investment strategy, either by 
Portafina or Firm C. Mr K argues that he was at most a medium risk investor.  I take this to 
mean that this was the highest level of risk he was willing  or able to sustain. I also note that 
the assessment  conducted by Firm C assessed  M Ks ATR as being five on a scale  of 
seven, which  I take to be slightly higher than medium. However, I think  it is also important to 
consider Mr Ks capacity  for loss in the context of his overall financial circumstances. 
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 2011 about assessing suitability, about  how firms  shouldnt  rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish  their clients ATR. The FCA said that firms  should  have a robust process  
for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take,  which includes assessing their 
capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions and not 
attributing inappropriate weight to certain  answers; and ensuring that tools  are fit for purpose 
with any limitations recognised and mitigated. 
Mr K had few assets of any note, he had no other pension  provision  and it seems  to me he 
was intent on accessing his TFC at the earliest possible age, for what I would consider to be 
Ref: DRN74610928essential living expenses  rather  than for luxuries  or investment. Therefore, it is clear to me 
that his capacity for loss was limited, so I believe that a suitable investment strategy needed 
to account for this. I think an appropriate assessment of his ATR would have been medium, 
despite his low capacity  for loss, as he still had another  10 years before he intended to retire 
and could afford to take some risk.
Portafina were required  to demonstrate why they recommended a SIPP  in preference to the 
low cost and simple  alternative of a Stakeholder  pension. The suitability report  stated, 
I have not recommended a Stakeholder Pension  because I believe the potential benefits of 
transferring to our recommended  scheme are higher than if you transferred to a Stakeholder  
Pension. But it did not clarify  what  these  potential benefits were.
At the time of the advice it was permitted for a Stakeholder pension plan to have an annual 
management charge  of up to 1.5%  per annum, although I am mindful that many if not most 
Stakeholder plans  were cheaper than this. The SIPP charged an initial fee of 0.2% per 
annum on the fund remaining after TFC and the annual fee was 0.425% of the fund plus 
£80. However, the investment recommendations by Firm C resulted in additional  fund 
charges of approximately  1% per annum. 
Overall whilst I fail to see any perceived  material advantage to recommending a SIPP in 
preference to a Stakeholder, I also do not see that Mr K was disadvantaged to any great  
extent based on the maximum level of charges  permitted under the Stakeholder alternative,  
as opposed to the SIPP recommended  by Portafina.
In summary,  my decision  is that whist Portafina did not clearly justify  why the switch to the 
SIPP was suitable,  Mr Ks need  to access his TFC was sufficient to conclude that the switch 
was necessary. However, as Ive set out above,  I think  Portafina failed in their duty to ensure 
that the resulting investments made  by Firm C were also suitable and that this ultimately led 
to Mr Ks loss.
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ks loss?
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ks 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ks losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because  Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr K to Portafina. Portafina advised  
Mr K to switch his benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged  for his existing 
pension benefits  to be switched over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr K to invest  a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  
that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed 
to consider the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr K on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr K switched the funds 
held in his OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being switched  over first; if that hadnt happened,  he couldnt 
have invested  as he did.
Ref: DRN74610929In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  In Mr Ks case  the FSCS has 
confirmed that as he has a complaint against  Portafina its unable to consider his claim. This 
means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving Mr K out of 
pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My 
starting point as to causation is that Portafina  gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for 
the losses Mr K suffered  in switching his existing  benefits to the SIPP and investing  as he 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong  in law or irrational but reflects the facts  of the case  and my 
view of the fair and reasonable  position.  So, overall, I think  apportioning responsibility  to 
Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr K would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ks circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina  do?
To compensate Mr K fairly,  Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ks investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr Ks pension plan to increase  its value  
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Ks pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ks actual  or expected marginal rate of tax 
at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Ref: DRN746109210Pay to Mr K £250 for the trouble and upset  caused by the advice received.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr K how much has been taken  off. Portafina should  give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year from 
date of decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not paid 
within 28 days of the 
business  being  notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr K provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr K wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
Ref: DRN746109211The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Fs circumstances  and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina LLP should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461092