K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that AWP  P&C SA unfairly refused to pay his claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mr B bought return flights for his family plus car hire through a website in June 2018. That 
website encouraged him to buy travel insurance,  which he did.
Mr B was due to fly out and start his holiday on 28 July 2018. But when he arrived at the 
airport, the airline had cancelled  his flight due to industrial action. And the airport was full of 
people with cancelled  flights. Mr B tried to contact AWP but only its legal  and medical 
helpline were open, given it was a weekend.
The airline had only given him an option  of another flight a week  later.  So he looked  for 
alternatives on the Sunday and found one not precisely to the same destination, but suitable.  
It was due to depart  on Tuesday 31 July so he booked it.
On the Monday, he was able to speak  with AWP where Mr B said he was told he would  be 
able to claim for the additional costs. Mr B was able to get a refund of his original flight  and 
car hire. 
Therefore, he made a claim  for the difference he had to pay to get to his destination plus his 
unused car parking charge and three  days lost holiday.  
AWP said it wouldnt pay his claim, as he hadnt abandoned  his holiday, he had merely 
suffered a delayed of his holiday. So it would only consider it under the delayed departure  
provision. Under  this, it said it would pay him £300.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought his 
complaint should  be upheld.  AWP disagreed so Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
Mr Bs trip was to start on 28 July on an airline I shall call R to a place in Europe I shall T. 
Due to the industrial action by this airline his flight was cancelled.  Mr B couldnt  get another 
flight that day to T with this airline.  So he returned  home.
So I consider his journey was abandoned in the ordinary meaning of that word.  There  was 
no delay  as such, he simply went home, given he had no other option. 
In the policy  the abandonment cover  is included under the heading of delayed departure 
so its considered part of the issue of such a delayed departure.  Mr B said AWP said he 
would be able to claim when he finally got through on the Monday. 
Ref: DRN71039192When Mr B then booked a new flight with a new airline  that flight  wasnt going to T, it was 
only going to a place I shall call P, it also obviously didnt depart on 28 July, instead it 
departed 31 July. So this wasnt the same trip, as originally planned, it was to a different 
place and for a shorter time. I agree with the investigator that the fact Mr B eventually 
managed to get to T is irrelevant.  
The policy is clear that cover for abandonment is provided, if you have to abandon the trip 
after being  delayed more than 24 hours up to a maximum of £5,000 and I consider this is 
precisely what happened to Mr T.
Mr T obtained a refund  of his flights from the original airline R. So he is merely claim the 
difference in costs of his new flights, extra car hire and the loss of original  car park charge at 
the airport. In this way, Mr B has clearly mitigated his loss to AWPs benefit, as it appears his 
claim is for less than it could have  been.
Therefore taking all the circumstances into account,  I consider  that on a fair and reasonable 
basis in the particular circumstances of this claim,  AWP  should  pay Mr Bs claim less what 
AWP already paid him. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that this complaint is upheld.
I now require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr Bs claim less what it has already paid him adding  
interest of 8% simple  per year from the date of his claim  to the date it refunds him.*
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103919