K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the quote from CIS General Insurance  Limited  to renew  her home  
insurance policy.
background
In October  2017 Miss H paid £257  to insure  her property  with CIS. When  the time came to 
renew the policy, CIS sent her a quote for £1,020.
When Miss H challenged the amount of the increase, CIS said it worked out the price of 
each policy  based  on its assessment of the risk of her making a claim. It said it used its own 
claims experience and data from other sources  to assess this.
Miss H has since  accepted a quote from a different insurer for less than shed previously 
been paying with CIS. She thinks CIS should  provide a breakdown of its quote so that she 
could see how the cost was calculated.
She brought  her complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint.  She 
didnt think CIS had treated Miss H differently from any other customers in a similar position. 
She also didnt think  CIS was obliged to provide Miss M with a more  detailed explanation of 
the price increase than shed already received.
As Miss H disagreed, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally I accept that insurers can charge  what they like for insurance  as long as they act 
fairly. In its simplest sense  that means that they should apply their chosen pricing model 
consistently and without taking advantage of any groups of customers. If an insurer  believes 
that a particular rating factor carries  a greater  degree of risk than it had previously thought,  I 
wont usually question  that. 
How insurers  set the price for their products is a complex combination  of factors.  The 
discipline of pricing  by risk has evolved with time as has the ability to manipulate larger  and 
more varied sets of data,  both personal to the policy holder and wider  external data. That 
means it isnt unusual for an insurer to quote  a much higher premium on renewal based on 
its reassessment of the risk since the last renewal.
As part of our investigation into Miss Hs complaint CIS has shared with us confidential, 
business-sensitive information  about  how Miss Hs premiums were  calculated on the 
October 2017 and 2018 renewals. I can see that CIS had changed its view of one particular 
factor which it thought  was now a much higher risk than previously. This affected  both the 
buildings and contents cover. Im not able to share that information  with Miss H because its 
confidential. But Id like to reassure her that Im satisfied it was calculated  fairly and in line 
with what CIS would have  charged its other  customers who were similar to Miss H. So I dont 
think the fact that the quote  for her renewal  premium was so much higher in 2018 means it 
treated her unfairly.
Ref: DRN76818602I appreciate that it must be frustrating for Miss H not to have a more  detailed explanation of 
why her insurance quote had increased  so much. But home  insurance  is a very competitive 
market. Im satisfied it could be damaging to CISs commercial interests to make this 
information available to consumers. So I dont think CIS acted unreasonably in not giving 
Miss H a more detailed explanation for the increase in her premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7681860