K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Calpe  Insurance Company Limiteds  request  for further
information to deal with his claim under  his car insurance policy is unfair.
background
Mr M bought  a car insurance policy through a broker in September  2017. Calpe is the lead
insurer for the policy.
In February 2018  Mr M reported an incident to Calpe. It investigated the claim and asked
Mr M to provide verification documents. It also asked Mr M to provide proof  of funds that he
used to buy his car in September 2017.
Mr M said he couldnt provide proof of funds as he paid cash  for his car. Calpe said that until 
he could provide proof of funds, it wouldnt be able to progress with his claim.
Our investigator thought Calpe should reconsider  the claim. She said its policy didnt say
Mr M needed to provide  proof of funds.
Calpe didnt agree.  
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2019.  I thought Calpe had acted reasonably.  
Mr M didnt  agree. Hes provided further  documents to support his claim. Calpe didnt reply.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe discovered  that Mr Ms car had been  involved in an incident in November 2017 and
was declared a write off. The categorisation of the write off was S meaning his car had
suffered structural damage but was repairable.
Mr M hadnt told his insurer Calpe about  the incident. So it didnt know his car had been
written off. Calpe found out after carrying out a check on the cars history.
Mr Ms policy with Calpe says the following:
Whether you believe that an incident  is your fault or not, you should report  the
incident to us and allow us to mitigate the costs of the claim.
And in bold and capitals,  Calpe wrote:
All claims incidents and accidents must be reported  to (broker name and number)
immediately and in any event within 48 hours,  even  if you are not claiming  yourself
and even if you do not believe you are at fault.
The engineer who inspected Mr Ms car in March 2018 raised  concerns  as to the repairs that
Ref: DRN72987682had been carried  out following the write  off. The area of damage  from the February 2018
incident was in the same place as previous damage. The engineer said the previous repairs
had been poorly  carried  out. He declared  Mr Ms car a further  Category  S write off.
Calpes policy says the most it will pay in the event of a total loss claim is the market value of
Mr Ms car. It defines the market value as:
the cost of replacing your car with one of the same  make, model and specification,
taking into account  the age, mileage  and condition of your car. To determine  the
Market Value, we will usually ask an engineer for advice and refer to current market
valuing guides such as [main motor trade guide names]. We will also refer to current
market valuing guides to consider the amount you could have obtained for your car
had you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft (taking into account  its
condition prior to the accident, loss or theft).
Because Mr Ms car was previously written  off, the engineer made a deduction from the
valuation he gave. The engineer decided a fair market value for Mr Ms car was £10,000. We
dont decide a market value for a car. But we look at whether an insurer  reached  its valuation
in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. The main motor  trade  guides  provide
valuations for cars using  the make, model,  mileage and specification.  They  provide
valuations based  on likely  selling prices  and trade prices.
Mr M has provided us with a copy of an invoice which he says is from the garage he bought
his car from in September 2017.  This is a word document. It doesnt provide any VAT
registration or company registration information for the garage. The sum on the invoice is
£19,000 paid in cash. Mr M told Calpe he isnt able to provide proof of funds. He said the
cash was a gift from family.
The guides  provided an average retail  transaction  valuation guide for Mr Ms car for
September 2017  the month Mr M says he bought his car. This is the average price Mr M or
anyone else might pay for his car from a dealer forecourt. The average  of these guides came
to £11,063. So I think the valuation of £10,000  the engineer reached was fair to reflect the
condition of Mr Ms car prior to the incident in February 2018. As Mr M decided to retain  his
car, Calpe is entitled to take a reasonable deduction  for the salvage  value. This was £2,500.
This therefore leaves  a total loss settlement of £7,500. Mr M owes an excess  of £1,500
under the terms  of the policy.
The price  on the invoice that Mr M says he paid in cash for his car is almost £8,000 more
than the average  market  value for it in September 2017.
Mr M sent Calpe the V5 registration form for his car. But this showed  the previous owner.
Calpe asked Mr M to send the correct section of the V5 form to the DVLA  to update him as
the registered keeper of the car. Mr M provided an updated V5 registration form to Calpe in
March 2018.
Calpes policy says:
When we are dealing with any claim the person who is seeking payment under this
policy shall give us all the relevant information, documents and assistance we require
to enable any claim to be validated for us to achieve  a settlement or pursue a
recovery.
Below are some  examples of what we may request. However, we may also ask for
Ref: DRN72987683other information, documents and assistance  relevant to your claim.
Details of third parties and witnesses  statement  of events relating to your claim
sketch or photograph of the accident  scene, correspondence received from another
party (including court papers)  driving licence, proof of identity and address, vehicle
documentation such as V5, MOT and proof of purchase, receipts  and invoices
finance documents, attendance at court  meetings with solicitors  or us.
I think Calpe  is entitled to make reasonable enquiries in order to validate a claim.  It provided
examples of what it may ask for, but this doesnt mean Calpe is limited to only ask for these
items.
Given the discrepancy between the price Mr M paid for his car and the market value of it, the
cars history and ownership,  I dont think Calpe has acted unreasonably. So I think its
entitled to continue making reasonable enquiries while it investigates  the claim.
This means  Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M has provided documents  which he says show proof of his employment and salary. We 
can forward these to Calpe. Its for Calpe  to consider these documents.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7298768