K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr E says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.  
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
I think  Barclays made it clear that Mr E didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Barclays has given us a copy  of Mr Es credit card application 
form. This includes  a section about  PPI, with yes and no boxes to tick to show whether or 
not the PPI was required and I can see the yes box has been ticked. If Mr E didnt want to 
take out the PPI he could  have ticked the no box. He has signed  the overall application 
which suggests he agreed with everything that had been entered.
So on balance, taking  into account everything  Ive been told and seen, I think  Barclays  made  
it clear the policy  was optional and Mr E agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
Barclays says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr E but he has told us it was recommended  to 
him that he take out the policy. Having looked  at the application form I can see that Mr Es 
name and address has been printed on the dcument which  would suggest  that it was posted 
to him  rather than being a blank form he collected  from a branch. And there  are date 
stamps on the document which would  indicate the form was posted back  to Barclays.  So I 
think its more likely  that this was a postal sale and Barclays didnt recommend the policy to 
Mr E. This means it didnt have to check if the policy was right for him but it did need to make 
sure that it gave Mr E clear enough information to enable him to decide  for himself if the 
policy was right for him.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have stopped him taking out the 
cover.
Mr E has told us he was entitled  to six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay from 
his employer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  But this policy would have 
paid out for up to 12 months, which would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer  than,  
his full sick pay. And it would have provided cover for the same  length of time if he was to 
lose his job. While Ive noted that Mr E had some savings he could have used, by having  this 
policy it would enable  him to protect those savings for another  purpose  or use them to cover  
other daily living expenses. So this point  doesnt  alter my decision.
So, when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and so it 
follows I dont think that Barclays need  to repay any of the premiums Mr E paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN78500872My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7850087