K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs G, as trustees of their parents reviewable whole of life policy  complain on 
their behalf  that it was mis-sold by Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance  Limited  (the business). 
They also say that the business failed to advise them of the likely ongoing costs, as a result 
of which  theyve been deprived  of surrendering  the plan at the earliest opportunity,  
minimising their losses.    
background
The business hasnt  upheld the complaint. It says other than the incorrect calculation  in April 
2018, for which it has offered £100 compensation, it has administered  the policy in line with 
its terms and conditions.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
The business wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy and therefore hes unable 
to consider that part of the complaint against the business. 
This was a qualifying,  regular  premium unit linked whole of life policy  in Mr G and Mrs 
Gs parents name, with both an investment and protection element. The sum 
assured and the premiums were guaranteed  for the first 10 years, after which the 
policy would be reviewed annually.
The documentation  sent at review estimated how long the premiums would be able 
to maintain the sum assured, without needing to be increased. 
In March 2018, Mr G and Mrs G removed the automatic inflation option. The 
business explained that the current premiums were  unlikely to be able to maintain the 
sum assured  for the next two years, and no guarantees were  given  that it wouldnt be 
shorter. 
The business offered £100 compensation for the incorrect calculations it made in 
April 2018 which was in line with what our service would offer in these  
circumstances.
Mr G and Mrs Gs parents regularly reviewed their financial circumstances if theres 
any issue with the advice they received they should consider taking that up with the 
financial adviser. 
The increases  to the premium are within the nature of this policy. The premiums are 
set at the business discretion, as this is based  upon advice from their actuaries. The 
businesss reasons  for increasing  the premiums  is not unreasonable.  
Overall the business wasnt obliged to do any more. 
Mr G and Mrs G strongly disagree with the investigators view and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
In short,  they maintain  the business  hasnt administered the policy  correctly  and the error  in 
April 2018 has resulted in financial losses between £9,500 and 19,500, because they were 
prevented from surrendering the policy sooner, rather than keeping it going  until they can no 
longer afford the premiums. Mr G and Mrs G disagree that £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.  
Ref: DRN74034732Im aware theyve also made a service complaint as they dont  feel the issues that their 
concerns have been looked at properly. Whilst Im unable to reach a decision on the service 
complaint, Ive read through  and considered all the relevant points made. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for broadly the same  reasons. 
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
As this complaint  is against the business that is responsible for the administration  of the 
reviewable whole of life policy, not the business that recommended it, Im unable  to consider 
if the policy was mis-sold.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr G and Mrs G say, Im unable  
to say that the business has done anything wrong  in the way that it has administered  the 
policy - aside from incorrect calculations in April 2018, for which it has provided £100  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr G and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about  this matter and Im deeply sorry 
for the loss of their father. 
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr G and Mrs G and the business, and reach  
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mr G and Mrs G are complaining  about  is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term, or a fixed  
premium, but is instead designed to pay out on death  whenever it occurs, provided  the 
premiums have been paid.   
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums are 
likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of the premiums. This is why Mr 
Ref: DRN74034733G and Mrs Gs parents couldnt have  been told precisely how the premiums  were likely to 
change.  And why Mr G was so surprised by the 22 December 2018  Illustrations that the 
existing level contributions were already insufficient  and that the increase was due to the 
increased cost of life cover, despite being  told in April 2018  that the existing premiums would 
be sufficient for the next four years. 
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. Any charges due are 
deducted from the sale of units rather than from a deduction of the sum assured. The cost of 
the cover  however isnt fixed and actually increases with age as Mr G and Mrs G have no 
doubt seen particularly in relation to their mother. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age, and the increased 
likelihood of a claim as the life assured gets older. Whilst I appreciate what Mr G and Mrs G 
say about taking a gamble on the longevity  of their mothers  life, this is a reality with these  
policies.
The hope  is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the 
policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium  being 
paid, and this may explain  the recent  sharp rise in premium. Whilst projections  can be made,  
there are no guarantees, and the projections  constantly have to be re-checked.  So it is not 
as straightforward as Mr G and Mrs G might think to let them  know in advance what  the 
premium will be so they have time to decide  if they want  to surrender the plan. Its highly 
unlikely but possible, that the investment element is such that the premiums could stay the 
same for a long period  of time.  
Its likely,  although Im unable to say for sure, that at the point of sale Mr G and Mrs Gs 
parents wouldve been given the assumed yearly growth fund figures which  determined  
whether (or not) the premiums she paid could maintain the level of cover or whether theyd 
need to increase to pay for the increased  cost of life cover.   
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  At each review  at the outset,  the insurer also needs  to make new 
assumptions about the cost of cover and investment performance in the future.  
Thats why its not always possible to predict  future premium increases with any degree  of 
accuracy. But not being able to predict future  premiums doesnt  mean  the policy  isnt being 
administered correctly.  So whilst the costs of premiums have increased over the years, 
theres no guarantee that they wouldnt continue to increase in future as Mr G and Mrs G are 
finding out.  
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholder  will be offered the choice of either paying a higher  
premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. 
I note the business accepts  that in April 2018  it provided the incorrect figure,  in other words 
miscalculated the figure. For this it has offered £100 compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Gs disappointment with the amount, but this isnt 
compensation for any financial  loss.  
Ref: DRN74034734I note Mr G and Mrs G say that armed with the correct information they couldve saved 
between £9,500 and £19,500.  But on the face of the evidence  and on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that this is correct. 
Whilst compensation would in theory be due for any losses caused by a business error, 
despite what Mr G says,  on balance  Im not persuaded that theyve suffered an actual 
financial loss. 
In a letter to the ombudsman service  dated  April 2019, Im mindful  Mr G says he was 
alarmed at the cost of the cover even in 2016 and spoke to his father  at length who was 
firmly of the belief  that continuing to pay into the policy was paramount in the management  
of their finances.  And that it was the best investment in their portfolio  as it was outside  
their estate. 
Based on this, and the fact that the policy still remains  outside  of Mr G and Mrs Gs parents 
estate, despite  what Mr G now says I think its unlikely  Mr G and Mrs G or their parents  if 
their father was also alive  wouldve cancelled the policy in April 2018 if the correct 
calculations had been provided because  this wouldve gone against the management of their 
finances. 
On balance Im satisfied given the nature and operation of the policy, it allowed the business 
to do what it was doing, and that it didnt mislead Mr G and Mrs Gs parents about  how the 
policy would work. 
 
Im unable to say that the business  has done  anything wrong by asking Mr G and Mrs Gs 
mother in 2019  to consider increasing the monthly  premiums to in order to maintain the sum 
assured.  
I appreciate what Mr G says, but Im unable to agree that the business has free reign to 
increase premiums without justification  and that its likely to do so in an effort to force older 
policyholders to abandon  their policies so that the insurer  doesnt need to pay out upon 
death of the life assured.  
The business is entitled to set its premiums,  based  upon advice from its actuaries, in the 
exercise of its legitimate  commercial judgement, and its not for us to tell it how to run its 
business. 
Im mindful Mr G has said a number of times that his parents were duped  somewhere along 
the line and that they were sold a policy that was inappropriate  for their purpose.  Whether or 
not this was the case Im unable to hold the business responsible for this. 
I also dont find the business responsible for not giving due warning before the payment 
was too large. As a reviewable whole of life policy  without any guarantee  and not 
withstanding it error in April 2018  this was always a possibility.  
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr G and Mrs G and their mother, in light of the possible 
future unaffordable premium increases. I agree with Mr G that the premium increases are 
unlikely to be insignificant.  But that said, their mother still has the option to reduce the sum 
assured and pay the same premium or increase the premium in order to maintain  the same  
sum assured, without  having to surrender the policy.   
Ref: DRN74034735I appreciate Mr G says that someone  has to be responsible and its not him or his parents. 
But Im unable to say that the business hasnt generally administered  the policy  in lines with 
its terms and conditions  or has done  anything wrong  apart from making an incorrect 
calculation in April 2018. 
I appreciate Mr G and Mrs G will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr G and 
Mrs G and their mother what they want.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance  Limited has offered to pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7403473