K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  were wrong to send a payment hed made 
online from his account held in US Dollars (USD)  to a third party in sterling (GBP)  and 
hes lost out as a result.
background
Mr B came to our service  as he wasnt happy with the response hed received from HSBC  
when hed complained about  the online payment hed made on 21 April 2018  being made in 
GBP rather than USD as hed requested.
HSBC said when inputting  a payment via their online  banking  facility Mr B accepted 
responsibility for ensuring the payment details were  correct. HSBC said, as the account of 
the third party  receiving the money (a currency exchange service)  was in the UK, HSBCs 
payment system wouldve  defaulted to make payment in GBP  unless  another currency  was 
selected. And it would  also tell Mr B the GBP  value that wouldve been  sent.  HSBC  told Mr B 
hed had the opportunity to check all the payment details hed input before he confirmed the 
instructions online but their records showed he didnt change  the type of currency being sent 
 so it went in GBP. So HSBC didnt accept  they were responsible  for the loss Mr B incurred 
on the transfer. HSBC  did accept they gave Mr B incorrect  information when he called on 21 
April 2018. But they said as that call was after hed input the information and confirmed it, 
the call had no effect on the transaction.  HSBC apologised for the error in the call and 
credited £100  to Mr B.
In both of the views she issued our investigator  found Mr B had made a mistake  by not 
changing the currency when he did the transaction. So she thought HSBC werent 
responsible and she couldnt  ask them to pay for Mr Bs loss. And shed seen no evidence  
that HSBC delayed the return of the funds to Mr B. Nor was she persuaded that there  was 
any IT issue.  And after listening to the call recording from 21 April 2018 overall she thought  
the offer made by B  to credit £100 for the incorrect information  in the post transfer call that 
day  was a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He said during  the call the adviser he spoke  to said the transaction  was 
USD to USD and this wasnt a mistake  this was what was showing on her screen.  And he 
said this gave weight  to his argument  that this was what was on his screen at the time he 
confirmed the transaction.  So he thought  HSBCs offer wasnt appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded this is 
a complaint that I can properly uphold.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration here.  The transfer out of his account hasnt been paid in 
the currency he intended and hes lost out as a result.  What  Ive got to decide is whether  
thats because  of anything HSBC have  done  wrong. Mr B made this transfer himself using 
online banking and theres a dispute  as to what currency  he sent. I cant know exactly what  
happened during the transfer. So where thats the case Ive decided  whats more  likely to 
have happened, at the time, on a balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN74710352Ive seen samples of the screens a customer would see when making the transfer online. 
These demonstrate  Mr B would be shown the amount of the USD  payment hes requested in 
GBP and the verification screen showing the exchange rate, the payment amount in GBP 
and the amount taken from his account in USD.  I know Mr Bs concern is that there was an 
issue with HSBCs IT system on the day but theres no evidence to support that. From the 
evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that, on more than one occasion during the transfer Mr B, 
wouldve been shown  the transfer  expressed as GBP which  he confirmed as correct before 
completing the transaction. And HSBCs  records show Mr B didnt change the currency 
being sent despite this.
The call recordings cant show me what happened Mr B made  the transfer. Notwithstanding 
HSBCs admission, at the start of one of the calls - during which  incorrect information was 
later given - Mr B confirmed to the operative hed made the payment an hour before. So 
whilst I understand his frustration at being given incorrect information  in the call this couldve 
had no effect on the transfer as he said hed already made the transaction online.  
So, on balance, I think its more likely Mr B made a mistake by not changing the currency to 
be paid to USD. The payment went in GBP as this was HSBCs default when a UK account 
receives the money. And as HSBC made  the transfer in accordance with the instructions Mr 
B gave  online  I cant say theyve done anything wrong there. In respect of the misinformation 
given in the call after this I consider HSBCs  admission,  apology  and payment of £100 to Mr 
B for this error to be a reasonable response.
Given how strongly Mr B feels about  what happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with HSBC informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7471035