K820x#14complaint
Mr D1 and Mr D2 complain about the service they received from Bank of Scotland  plc on 
branch visits to reactivate and merge their accounts.  Mr D1 separately  complains about the 
difficulties he had in opening a student account  because the bank did not make its 
information requirements clear.
background
Mr D1 and his father Mr D2 attended  an appointment at a Halifax branch.  They  wished to 
reactivate Mr D1s Kids Saver  and Junior  ISA accounts, and consolidate all of the money 
into the ISA account.  Mr D1 also wanted  the interest on his ISA to be increased from 0.2% to 
what was the current  rate at that time of 0.6%.
The Halifax  adviser  unblocked the accounts,  but couldnt complete either  the account 
consolidation or interest  rate increase as some  overnight processing  was required. He said 
Mr D1 and D2 should return to the branch in a few days when the outstanding  tasks could be 
completed by branch  staff. He confirmed that a further appointment wouldnt be needed.
But when Mr D1 and D2 went to the branch a few days later they were told that their request 
could only be actioned  by a senior staff member, and none  were in that day. Mr D1 and D2 
were told to make an appointment for a third branch visit, but Mr D1 decided to move  his 
money elsewhere instead.
Some weeks later Mr D1 decided  to open  a Halifax student account, which  he did online.  To 
complete the process he was informed that he should visit a branch with two pieces of 
confirmatory evidence. One of these should  confirm  the offer of his university  place and 
could be either his UCAS  or university letter. Mr D1 took his UCAS  letter  plus various UCAS 
codes, and an email  from his university  confirming his place. But Halifax refused to accept 
these as they didnt include course  dates. Staff said he needed to produce evidence  within  
14 days or his temporary account would be closed, and he would have to wait a month 
before trying  again. When Mr D1 and D2 asked staff to make a note of their visit on the 
temporary account they were told this wasnt possible.
Mr D1 therefore complained to Halifax  about his ISA experience  and about  the problems 
hed had opening his student account.
Halifax rang Mr D1 and discussed  his complaint in detail. It offered him £75 for its service  
shortcomings plus £5 to cover his travel  and parking costs for the outstanding branch visit 
still required  to open his student  account.  Mr D1 accepted the offer and asked for a letter  of 
confirmation, which Halifax  sent.
But on reflection  Mr D1 decided he was unhappy with the banks settlement and he brought  
his complaint to us. He said that hed only accepted  the offer because  the banks phone  call 
had taken him by surprise; that the bank  should  pay more compensation because  his father 
had also been  inconvenienced and that it should  also pay him a sum equivalent to the lost 
interest on his ISA account from the date of his first branch  visit.
Our investigator disagreed. In summary  he thought that Halifaxs  payment of £80 was fair 
and reasonable total compensation for the banks acknowledged service shortcomings; and 
that as Mr D1 had moved his ISA account  elsewhere the issue of the 0.6% interest rate no 
longer applied.
Ref: DRN72853062Mr D1 didnt agree with our investigator and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary, Mr D1 said hed expected our investigator to put his concerns to Halifax  for the 
bank to answer rather than being  told the investigators view on the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that my role is to make  a decision  on Mr D1 and D2s complaints 
and not to act as their representative to the bank. In doing so I consider whether the bank 
has done anything  wrong and whether it has treated them fairly. And if I find that I need 
additional information either  from Mr D1 and D2 or from the bank I request it.
Having looked  at the detail of the case I considered that I had the necessary information to 
make my decision  on the matters raised.  But before doing so, and in response to a request 
from Mr D1, we asked  Halifax if it would  provide  him with a recording of the phone call it had 
supplied to us. It said it would if Mr D1 applied for it. We allowed Mr D1 additional time to do 
this and to comment  further to us on it if he wished, but he hasnt done so.
Halifax has agreed that it incorrectly advised Mr D1 and D2 on their first branch visit that 
their ISA transaction  would be completed on their second visit by reception staff without 
making an appointment. Mr D1 and D2 were clearly  inconvenienced by then finding this to 
be untrue  as they needed to see a suitably qualified member of staff who wasnt  in the 
branch on that second visit. And so because of the banks poor service Mr D1 decided  to 
move his accounts elsewhere, which he did without  pursuing his original request that the 
interest rate on his ISA be increased to 0.6%.  But Mr D1 nevertheless  believes the bank 
should pay him the interest he would have  received  on his ISA if the rate had been 
increased on his first branch visit up to the date he closed his account.  
But Im afraid that I disagree with Mr D1 on this point. Halifaxs procedures are such that his 
ISA rate wouldnt have  been increased  on his first visit because of the need for the initial  
overnight processing associated with unblocking his various accounts. On Mr D1 and D2s 
second visit appropriately qualified staff werent  available. But instead of following this up 
Mr D1 moved his money elsewhere. Under  these circumstances  my view is that I cannot 
reasonably ask Halifax to pay Mr D1 the interest he believes  he would have received if it had 
been possible to increase  his ISA rate on his first visit. 
With respect to Mr D1s student account  Halifax has also agreed that the information it 
provides applicants isnt sufficiently clear  as it doesnt make plain that the bank needs  
course dates on confirmatory evidence.  This lack of clarity resulted in yet another  
unnecessary branch  visit by Mr D1 and D2.
Halifax spoke to Mr D1 by phone about the detail of his complaint and he accepted  the 
banks offer of £80 compensation.  I understand that Mr D1 now says that he judged  that to 
be a provisional  acceptance on his part until he had had time to reflect  on matters and to 
receive a full letter of explanation from the bank.  And having received the banks letter  
Mr D1s view was that that was inadequate  and that the compensation he had accepted was 
too low. 
Ref: DRN72853063But having  considered the full circumstances of Mr D1 and Mr D2s complaint  my judgment  
is that £80 is fair and reasonable  compensation for the banks  poor service  overall. In saying  
this I should make it clear  that £80 settles  the total complaint brought by Mr D1 and D2. How 
they then decide to divide the money  is a matter for them. And although I recognise that 
Mr D1 and D2 are unhappy  with the brevity of the settlement letter from the bank, my view is 
that it was sufficient given that Mr D1 and Halifax had already discussed the matter in detail 
on the phone. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January  2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7285306