K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS   trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the 
MPPI. 
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  only covered Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, so 
Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they werent aware  that the policy was optional  and that the policy 
wasnt discussed other than the advisor telling  them  their repayments for the mortgage and 
that there  was insurance included. Theyve not provided much more  detail about what 
happened at the time.
BoS isnt able to provide paperwork from the sale  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took 
place so long ago. And while I can understand  that Mr and Mrs B are frustrated by this, 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. 
Usually, theres enough information  available  for me to conclude,  one way or another, if Mr 
and Mrs B were given a choice in taking out the MPPI. But in order  for me to uphold  Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint in this area, Id have to think it was more likely than not that BoS didnt 
make it clear  that the policy was optional  and didnt  give them a choice in taking out the 
policy. And due to the lack of information available, I simply dont  have enough to say that 
this was the case. So I cant  uphold  their complaint for this reason.
BoS most  likely recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B so it would have  had to check that 
the MPPI  was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. 
Similar to most insurance policies, the MPPI Mr and Mrs B were sold did have some 
exclusions and limits  but from what theyve said about Mr Bs circumstances (as it was 
Mr B who was covered  by the policy)  it doesnt  appear that he was affected  by any of them,  
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it could have been  useful  for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN72683292Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said - but these points dont  change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268329