K820x#14Complaint
Miss T complains that despite telling HSBC UK Bank Plc that she was travelling abroad  
between October 2017 and April 2018  it sent important information  about her account to her 
residential address.  Miss T also complains that HSBC defaulted the account despite an 
agreed payment  plan being in place.
Background
Miss T had a HSBC  current account and overdraft. In October 2017 Miss T went travelling 
for around  six months.  Miss T says she notified HSBC before she went. 
The last time funds were  credited to the account was on 1 August 2017 when a £30 transfer 
was received. From 2 August  2017 Miss Ts overdraft balance  remained at £1,049.29. 
In January 2018 HSBC made  Miss Ts account  dormant  due to the length of time that had 
passed since any transactions had taken place. On 31 January 2018  HSBC wrote to Miss T 
and said her overdraft facility had been cancelled. On 1 February 2019 HSBC  wrote to 
Miss T again to confirm  it had also sent important  letters to her online banking facility  to be 
viewed. 
HSBC sent other letters to Miss T. Shes told us that she opened them  on her return  to the 
UK at the start of April 2018. Miss T contacted HSBC and on 6 April 2018 she paid £230  and 
says she agreed a payment arrangement to pay £50 a month towards the outstanding  debt.  
Miss T spoke with HSBC  on 3 and 4 May 2018 and raised a complaint. 
On 17 May 2018 HSBC  wrote to Miss T and said that it hadnt received an acceptable 
payment proposal  from her. Miss T made payments of £50 on 29 May 2018, 26 June 2018  
and 26 July 2018. In addition, there was a payment  of £18.40  made on 29 June 2018. 
Miss T complained but HSBC didnt  agree  it had made a mistake.  In HSBCs response  dated 
29 June 2018  it said there is no record of a formal payment arrangement being put in place 
in April 2018 for £230 plus £50 monthly  payments. HSBC said the account would default if 
no payments were made.
On 3 July 2018 HSBC  sent Miss T its final demand for £815.89, the amount outstanding, and 
said she should make  a payment within 15 days to avoid a default.  Miss T has told us she 
didnt receive HSBCs  letter. As the account  wasnt cleared it was formally  closed and a 
default was reported to the credit reference  agencies. 
Miss T referred  her complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  They  
thought HSBC had dealt  with Miss Ts complaint fairly. Miss T asked to appeal so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss T was abroad for an extended  period which  means she didnt get HSBCs 
correspondence. Shes told us that before leaving HSBC was notified.  HSBC doesnt appear  
Ref: DRN73267112to have a record  of that. But its confirmed  that Miss T had the ability  to monitor  her account  
online so would have  been in a position  to see the various letters  it sent during the time she 
was away. HSBC also says that Miss T didnt provide  any alternative contact details so it 
had to continue  sending information  about  her account to the address it held for her. I know  
Miss T was away, but HSBC continued  to administer  her account during that time. And it had 
to send out important information concerning  the status of the account.  I think HSBC acted 
reasonably by writing  to Miss T at the registered  address and making  those letters available  
online.
Miss Ts account was overdrawn  and it received  no payments after 1 August 2017. As there 
was no account  activity HSBC took the decision to make it dormant and wrote to Miss T to 
ask her to make  payments. On 31 January 2018  the overdraft facility  was removed. Miss Ts 
credit file reflects that she was overdrawn without an agreed  facility from that point. 
On her return, Miss T says she agreed a payment arrangement to stop her account being 
defaulted. But HSBC  hasnt been able to locate a call during which  a payment  plan was 
agreed and theres  nothing recorded  on its systems about it. HSBC  also says that even 
though Miss T made a payment of £230 on 6 April 2018, £50 a month  wouldnt have been 
enough to agree a formal payment arrangement and avoid  the default. Businesses  will 
normally only agree  to a short term arrangement to avoid a default but Miss T would have 
needed a longer term option to repay the outstanding  balance  at £50 a month. I dont doubt 
that Miss T spoke with HSBC around the time she made the £230 payment and discussed  
options. But I havent found  that a formal payment arrangement  was agreed.  
HSBC continued  to move Miss Ts account  through its collections process while  her 
complaint was ongoing. I can see the final response  dated 29 June  2018  was sent shortly 
before HSBC wrote to Miss T with its final demand on 3 July 2018. 
HSBC has provided  call recordings  from 3 and 4 May 2018. During these calls Miss T and 
HSBC discuss the account and whether there was a formal  payment arrangement  in place. 
Having listened  to the calls, Im satisfied HSBC  said there wasnt a payment plan. 
Whilst I understand Miss T was unhappy  about how her account had been handled by 
HSBC, the information Ive seen indicates she was aware that no formal repayment 
arrangement was in place. 
Miss T has told us she didnt receive some of the important letters HSBC sent to her so 
wasnt aware of its intention to default.  Ive looked at all HSBCs correspondence, including 
the final response and final demand, and they are all correctly  addressed  in line with the 
information it held for Miss T. Im satisfied  HSBC wrote to Miss T before defaulting her 
account in line with the rules and that it gave sufficient warning before proceeding. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss T but HSBC  had to write to her about the account as it was 
overdrawn and no funds  had been  paid in for an extended period. HSBC  says all its letters 
were made available online for Miss T as well so she should have been able to view them  
whilst away. I havent found that there was a formal  payment plan in place from April 2018. 
The information shows Miss T was aware that there wasnt a payment plan from May 2018 
onwards. HSBC sent the required letters in line with the details  it held for Miss T. Having 
considered everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBCs decision to default  Miss Ts account 
was fair and reasonable. As I think HSBCs  acted reasonably and dealt with Miss Ts 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN73267113My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7326711