K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Financial Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in store in 1998.
Although a high street  store sold Mr A his policy, FICL, the insurer  has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. For ease I will refer to FICL  as the seller 
throughout this decision.
background
Mr A took out a PPI policy in store which covered him if he was off work  for accident, 
sickness or if he lost his job.
It cost no more than £1 per every £100  outstanding on his store  card balance  and would 
have covered 15% of that balance if Mr A made a successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed  with this view 
and asked for his matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr A hasnt got a clear  recollection about  the events  of this sale.  This is understandable as 
so much time has gone by since the sale. But where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconsistent I will make my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  - that is whats  
more likely to have  happened taking into account the evidence  we do have, what  both 
parties have told me and taking into account what we know  about  these types of sales at the 
time.
Mr A has said that he couldnt  take the store card without  the PPI.  So the first thing Ive 
thought about is whether Mr A was given a fair choice about  buying the cover.  FICL has 
provided a copy of the completed credit agreement  which Mr A signed  and dated. This has 
been completed with Mr As details including his personal details and employers name. On 
the application theres a section about the PPI. The box to say Mr A wanted  the PPI has 
been ticked. He could  have left this part of the form blank if he didnt want  to take out the 
insurance. And although I cant say what the representative said to him at the time, theres 
nothing on the paperwork which  makes me think  Mr A would have been told he had to have 
the insurance in order to get the store  card.  
I can also see that the section about card protection plan has been  crossed  through.  That 
indicates to me that Mr A had some choices about  whether or not to take out different types  
of cover.  Overall, I think Mr A would have known  that he had an option to take out the PPI or 
leave it.
Ref: DRN76121742FICL didnt  recommend this policy. That meant  that FICL didnt need to make sure it was 
right for Mr As circumstances. But it still had to make sure it gave Mr A enough clear 
information so he could decide  for himself whether he wanted  to take it out.
Its possible that not all the information  was as clear  as it could have been. But thats  not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need  to consider whether better or clearer 
information would have changed Mr As mind about  buying  the policy.
Mr A was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been affected  by any of the 
main limitations and exclusions in this policy  which might have made it more difficult to make 
a claim.
Mr A has told us he would  have received three  months or more  but less than six months  sick 
pay from his employer and he says he had some savings. But this was a non-advised sale 
so the representative didnt need to check his circumstances- it was up to Mr A to decide  
whether or not he wanted to take out the PPI. But Ive looked at Mr As circumstances and I 
still think the PPI could have been  useful. It would have paid out for longer than his full sick 
pay would  have lasted  and meant  Mr A could have used his savings for other  important 
expenses if things went wrong. 
Theres nothing which makes me think the PPI was unaffordable at the time.  Overall I dont 
think Mr A lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong. For the reasons Ive given I think 
the PPI could have been  useful if Mr A lost his job or couldnt  work for an extended period. 
On balance, I dont  think hed have been put off buying the cover  even if hed been  given 
better or clearer information.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr A but I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7612174