K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his mother Mrs B about the cancellation of her motor insurance  
by Advantage  Insurance Company Limited.  She also complains about the handling  of a 
claim that was made when the car was vandalised and later written off.
background
Mrs B insured her car with Advantage.  Her son Mr B was a named driver on the policy and 
regularly used the car. The policy is underwritten  by Advantage, which  is therefore 
responsible for this complaint,  although Mr B and Mrs B in fact dealt with another  company. 
When I refer to Advantage in this decision, I include both companies.
One night when the car was parked outside Mr Bs address it was vandalised and badly 
damaged. Mrs B made  a claim on the insurance. Advantage arranged for the car to be 
collected and inspected.  The damage  was so bad that the car was written  off because it 
wasnt economic to repair it. 
Advantage offered £5,500  in settlement of the claim as it said this was what the car was 
worth before the accident. Mrs B wasnt happy with this and thought  it was worth at least 
£6,000.
It took quite some time for this issue to be resolved and Mrs B complained  about  the poor 
customer service  shed  received. She also complained that Advantage hadnt  told her where 
the car was kept so that she could collect her personalised number plates, which had 
sentimental value.
In the course  of investigating the claim,  Advantage looked Mr B up online.  It found various 
social media profiles which said Mr B was a DJ  although he had said he was unemployed  
and a full-time father  when the policy  was taken out. When it spoke to him about this, Mr B 
said he occasionally DJd at weddings, but wasnt paid for doing so. But he said he did now 
do occasional part-time  self-employed  courier work  for a friends company.
Advantage said the policy terms required  all drivers to tell it of changes  in their 
circumstances. It said Mr B hadnt  told it that he was now working as a courier and that 
courier wasnt an occupation  it was prepared to ensure. It cancelled the policy  and charged 
Mrs B a £45 cancellation fee. 
Mrs B complained about the cancellation of her policy.  Our adjudicator  didnt think it was fair 
that the policy was cancelled  because  of a change of occupation  partway through  the policy 
term. He said it would have been fairer for Advantage to allow  the policy to continue and 
either decline to renew it or increased the premium at renewal. He said it should refund the 
premium and cancellation fee. He also said Advantage should pay Mrs B £30 towards  the 
cost of replacing her personalised  number  plates. But he thought the valuation  of £5,500 
was fair. And he noted that Advantage had paid Mrs B a total of £230 for poor customer 
service, which  he also thought was fair.
Mrs B accepted that. But Advantage  didnt. It said it was right to cancel the policy  because  
neither courier nor DJ were acceptable occupations, and the terms obliged  Mrs B to report 
any change in occupation for any driver.  So the case comes to me for a final decision to be 
made.
Ref: DRN72292752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several issues here,  and Ill deal with each in turn, starting  with the cancellation.
The cancellation arose because of information Advantage found out about Mr B during its 
investigation of the claim.
Ive looked carefully  at Advantages  file, and the investigation it carried  out. Its underwriting 
criteria do show  that DJ is an unacceptable  occupation   in other words, that it will never 
insure someone working as a DJ.
But its own investigation shows  that Mr B has at some point in the past been a DJ. Nothing  
on his social  media  profiles confirms  exactly when, or whether he has been paid for doing  so 
recently. Advantages own conclusion was that there  wasnt any evidence  to confirm  that he 
had been paid for working as a DJ at any point in the policy  year. So when it cancelled  the 
policy it didnt rely on DJ work   and so I dont think its fair for that to be used as a 
justification for the cancellation now.
I think the evidence  is clear that since the policy was taken out Mr B has been working as a 
courier on and off. This is a change  from when the policy  was taken out, and as such is 
notifiable according  to the terms and conditions  although neither Mrs B nor Mr B told 
Advantage about it.
However, the underwriting criteria show that courier is only an unacceptable occupation 
where the insured vehicle is used for courier work. Theres no evidence  that Mr B was using  
the car for courier  work; the evidence suggests he also owns a van (not insured by 
Advantage) and was using that.
So Mr Bs courier work  did not make  him uninsurable according to Advantages own criteria. 
It might have  some impact on the degree  of risk, and therefore  the premium.  And Mrs B 
should have declared that he was now doing this work. But in the circumstances I dont think  
it was fair for Advantage simply  to cancel the policy mid-term because  of this  not least  
because the stated reason for doing  so was that Mr B was using the car outside the terms of 
the policy, which theres no evidence of.
There was no refund of premium paid at the time of the cancellation. Mrs B would have had 
to go elsewhere, and pay another premium, for insurance for the duration of the term. Its 
likely that new insurance would have been  more expensive because  of the cancellation  
though Mr B and Mrs B havent  given us evidence of how much more  expensive it was. In 
the circumstances, I agree that it would be fair for Advantage to refund the premium  and 
cancellation fee. It think this is fair compensation for the trouble  caused by the cancellation 
and the possible  additional costs of insuring elsewhere. It should  also remove the record of 
the cancellation from insurance databases  and write to Mrs B confirming that the 
cancellation has been reversed, so that Mrs B need  not declare it in future insurance 
applications.
Ref: DRN72292753Turning to the settlement of the claim itself, I think Advantage offered a fair valuation for the 
car itself, of £5,500 less the excess.  Its in line with valuation suggested by the trade guides, 
which take into account age and mileage. I think the guides are generally the fairest  means 
of estimating the value of a car, and so I think the valuation Advantage offered was fair.
Its clear that Mrs B said to Advantage several  times that she wanted to retrieve  the 
personalised number plates, but wasnt able to do so. The adjudicator  found  that it would 
cost around £30 to have  replacement plates made, and Mrs B accepted that figure.  So thats 
what Ill direct.
Although the settlement value was, as Ive said, a fair valuation  it took too long to get to that 
point and there were  problems and difficulties along the way. Advantage has offered 
compensation totalling £230 for the inconvenience caused and I think thats fair in all the 
circumstances. Mrs B wasnt entitled  to a courtesy car where hers was written  off and 
although shes said she had to use taxis to get around while  waiting for settlement I dont 
have any evidence of extra  costs she incurred.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove any record of insurer cancellation  of the policy  and tell Mrs B that it has 
done so;
Refund the premium  from the date of last renewal  onwards, and refund the 
cancellation fee, adding simple annual  interest  of 8%* to both refunds running in 
each case from the date of the cancellation;
Pay Mrs B £30 as a contribution to the cost of replacing the number plates.
If Mrs B has not yet cashed  the cheques sent for the claim settlement and the £230 
compensation, Advantage should also re-issue  those cheques.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7229275