K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.  She says she wasnt  told the policy was optional  or given enough 
information about the cost.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
However Mrs W has already received some money  back for the commission Barclays  
received from selling her the PPI. Mrs W still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint  has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I certainly dont doubt Mrs Ws recollections  about  being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and 
honestly held.  But these events took place a considerable  time ago and records show  that 
she applied  for her credit card at a branch of Barclays in 1995. 
We have a copy of the form used  in Mrs Ws case and I can see there  is a yes and no 
option about having PPI with the new credit  card account. Mrs Ws form had an x in the 
yes box, so I think this makes it more likely she agreed to the PPI at the meeting.
I also think Mrs W would have known that she didnt need to have PPI with her card if she 
didnt want it. This is because there was an option on the form not to take it. 
Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs W during the sale. This 
means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable  for her. Overall,  I 
think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Ws situation. I think she was eligible  for the cover  and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  I agree with 
Mrs W when she says she already had relatively good protection  against sickness with her 
job. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of use. The policy would  
have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to 
claim and this wouldve  been in addition to any other  means she had at that time. I also see 
that the cost was around 79p for every £100 outstanding on the card, which I think would 
have been affordable for her.
So overall, I think this policy  was suitable  for her.
Ref: DRN75888792Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs W 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. I cant 
say she was told everything she ought to have been  told, but I do think Mrs W would have 
probably been given some  written and verbal  information about the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W but I think the evidence  shows she most likely chose the policy  
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have. This means Im not 
upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because  when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs W about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank Plc has already paid her for the commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588879