K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about problems with her TSB Bank plc account. Shes also unhappy about 
being sent a letter meant for another customer.
background
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems.  Unfortunately  things didnt go to plan, resulting in 
widely documented issues for a number of its customers, including  Mrs R.
Mrs R contacted TSB shortly after the event to say some cheques shed written  had been  
returned unpaid.  But the money  had left her account   leaving her unable  to make the 
payments she needed  to. TSB added a temporary  credit to Mrs Rs account within  a few 
days.
Mrs R contacted TSB a couple of months later to complain. She said shed had to take time 
off work, travel a long distance to her branch and make many  phone calls to resolve  her 
issues. She wanted TSB to compensate her.
TSB responded to Mrs Rs complaint in early 2019. It apologised for the inconvenience its 
issues had caused  her when shed tried to make some payments by cheque,  as well as the 
time it had taken to respond to her concerns.  It offered  her £325 to say sorry, as well as a 
further £50 for the costs Mrs R had incurred in chasing up her complaint. It offered to look at 
any evidence Mrs R supplied of further costs shed had to pay.
TSB also sent Mrs R a letter meant for another of its customers.  Mrs R complained about 
that as well, and said it had worried her greatly, as she was concerned her details could 
have been shared with someone else too. TSB assured her they hadnt,  but offered her 
another £25  taking its offer to put things right to £400 overall.
Mrs R still wasnt  happy and brought her complaint to our service. She said TSB ought to 
pay her a sum in the region of £3,000 due to the distress shed been caused at receiving 
another customers letter.
One of our adjudicators considered Mrs Rs complaint.  He thought  TSB should pay Mrs R 
some more compensation  but not as much  as she was asking for. He thought the impact  
of TSBs errors on Mrs R warranted a payment of £500 overall (including the £400 it had 
already offered).
TSB accepted the adjudicators recommendation, but Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the matter.  She said the whole ordeal had been a difficult  time and 
shed had to let her children down with things. She said shed accept £1,500  from TSB.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that TSBs IT issues caused  problems for Mrs R. Im pleased to see its 
acknowledged that and offered to put things right. There remains a dispute about what fair 
compensation looks like here, and thats what Ive considered.
Ref: DRN77575942TSBs IT problems meant a few cheques  Mrs R issued bounced. From what Ive seen this 
money was returned  to her account  within a few days. TSB offered  to pay Mrs R some 
compensation for the stress and embarrassment this caused her, as well as the time shed 
taken to pursue  the matter.
In its final response TSB said it would  pay Mrs R £50 for the costs shed incurred in chasing 
up her complaint. It invited her to provide any evidence  of additional costs shed had to pay. 
As far as I can see shes not provided anything more to either TSB or our service on this 
matter.
Later, TSB sent a letter to Mrs R that was meant  for someone else.  Its this that appears  to 
be the main issue Mrs R remains  unhappy with  and she wants  significantly more 
compensation from TSB as a result. 
I appreciate that it would have been  worrying for Mrs R to receive correspondence with 
someone elses details   and to then become concerned her details may also have been 
shared with other parties.
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that her details have been compromised. TSB has checked 
which of its customers had their details accidentally sent to the wrong  person.  Mrs R wasnt 
amongst them.  And theres no indication from Mrs Rs submissions  that anyone  has in fact 
got hold of her personal or banking details.
In reaching my decision on fair compensation Ive taken all the above  into account  the 
inconvenience Mrs R suffered regarding her bounced cheques,  and the worry she 
experienced after getting someone elses post.  Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator  
that £500 represents a fair and reasonable figure  for TSB to pay Mrs R in light of the distress  
shes been through.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct TSB Bank  plc to pay Mrs R £500, less anything  its already 
paid her in respect  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7757594