K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
West Bromwich  Mortgage Company Limited  (WBMCL).
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage in 1993 with a building society  which  later became part of 
WBMCL. In 2004 they were sold PPI during a phone call. The PPI would have helped  pay 
the mortgage for up to a year at a time if Mr or Mrs A were  unable to work.  
Mr and Mrs A say they have no recollection of agreeing to buy the PPI. They say if they did 
agree to it, it was probably because they would have felt it was a condition of taking the 
mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when making my decision. Having  done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs 
As complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision. 
Mr and Mrs A dont  remember  taking the PPI. This isnt surprising given the time thats 
passed since the sale. WBMCL has provided evidence that shows the PPI was sold during  a 
phone call. And it was a long time after Mr and Mrs A took out their mortgage, so they 
wouldnt have thought they had to have it to secure  the lending  or that they didnt have a 
choice about it. 
Mr and Mrs A were  given the first six months of cover free. At the end of the free period  
WBMCL wrote to Mr and Mrs A telling them that if they wanted to continue with the PPI that 
there would be a charge. The letter told them how much  this would be and what they needed 
to do if they wanted  to cancel the insurance. WBMCL has provided sample copies  of the 
letter they sent and I am satisfied Mr and Mrs A would have seen this, or something very like 
it. 
WBMCL didnt provide a personalised  recommendation to Mr and Mrs A to buy the PPI, so it 
didnt have to check that it was right for them. But it did need to make  sure Mr and Mrs A 
understood all the important  elements  of the policy so they could  make  an informed decision. 
WBMCL hasnt been able to supply a copy of the call script  which  was in use at the time, so I 
dont know how it provided the information to Mr and Mrs A. But looking at Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances at the time I think that it was suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs A chose  to take out the PPI and continued with it after the free period ended  so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based  on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time it doesnt  look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  so it would have  been useful for them if something went wrong. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for them. 
Ref: DRN78327622On balance, I dont  think even if theyd had all the information they needed  it would have put 
them off buying  the cover. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs A lost out as a result of anything  
WBMCL might have  done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint so it follows that West Bromwich  Mortgage 
Company Limited  doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7832762