K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs J took out a store card in 1997. A few months later she bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on her account on her card if she wasnt able to work.
Mrs J says the policy was added without her knowledge or consent. She says the main  
features werent  disclosed properly  to her.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Js complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs J disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Js 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
FICL has provided a copy of the credit  agreement Mrs J completed.  I can see from this that 
Mrs J was given a choice  about buying  the PPI and didnt  agree to take it at the time of 
applying for the card.  Three months later the PPI was added after it was sold to Mrs J by 
phone. Given  that Mrs J had previously  known she was able to decline the PPI, and had 
been using the card for several months, I think shed  have understood the PPI was optional.
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mrs J about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for her. But it did need to make sure it gave 
her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont  know  what was said 
during the phone call, so I think its possible FICL didnt  do this well enough.   
But looking  at Mrs Js circumstances I dont think more information  wouldve changed  her 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mrs J understood the policy  would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs J chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mrs J was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs J.
Mrs J says she was entitled to six months sick pay from her employer. And its likely shed 
have been entitled to some redundancy pay too. But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition  
to any sick pay or redundancy pay and potentially for longer  the policy  wouldve continued 
paying for as long as Mrs J was off work, or until the original balance was paid off. Mrs J 
Ref: DRN78276302says she had some savings too, but Mrs J wouldve had other uninsured  expenses  to cover 
if she was off work which she may have needed  these for. So I think  the policy offered Mrs J 
a useful benefit.
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mrs Js entire  balance  
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mrs J wouldve still bought  the policy if shed  understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mrs J lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint so it follows that Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7827630