K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly  declined  a 
claim for storm  damage  on her home  insurance policy.
 
background
Ms B is represented in this complaint by Mr A. Ms Bs property suffered damage during a 
period of bad weather. The tiled roof let in water  and part of a ceiling came  down.  When she 
tried to claim  on her home insurance  she was told there hadnt been a storm and the 
damage had happened  over a period of time. But when someone came  to do a temporary 
repair they said the weather was too bad for them to go on the roof. And Mr A says further 
damage was caused by wind and rain while she waited for a repair. So hed like LV to pay 
for the damage  thats been caused.
LV said there were strong winds in the area that day. So itd appointed its trusted  provider to 
carry out an inspection.  But LV said it appeared  the damage had happened gradually  over a 
period of time. It wasnt  the result  of a one-off event. LV said itd looked  at the independent  
report submitted on behalf of Ms B. But LV said the report confirmed  the damage wasnt  
consistent with the sort of damage caused  by a storm. So it wasnt  able to pay the claim.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with LVs response. So her representative contacted our service  and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She looked  at the information  provided on behalf of 
Ms B and LV. And she explained  she had to consider whether thered been  a storm around 
the time of the claim which wouldve caused the damage to Ms Bs roof. If there  was no 
storm there was no insured event.
Our investigator looked at the weather data used by LV which  showed winds increased to 
41mph on the day the claim was made. She checked with additional weather data which  
confirmed the same level of wind. But she wouldnt consider winds  of 41mph  to be a storm. 
And she wouldnt expect  such  wind to cause the damage reported  to the roof or inside. So 
she didnt think LV had acted unfairly in declining the claim.  And she wouldnt be upholding 
the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He said a fair outcome  would  be equitable  to both parties.  Mr A said the 
damage to Ms Bs property had been  caused by strong winds  accompanied by heavy rain. 
And the workmen couldnt initially  secure  the roof because the weather was too severe. The 
experienced roofer who repaired the damage said itd been caused by the weather 
conditions. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs claim for damage  to a roof and ceiling has been declined  by LV because the 
recorded wind and rain were below the level considered to be a storm. But her 
representative feels LV has acted  unfairly. So Ive looked carefully at everything thats 
happened to see if LV has made  a mistake. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN72446672When deciding whether I think LVs decision to decline Ms Bs claim is fair I have to start by 
deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of 
the damage. And it would have to be listed as an insurable peril on the policy  document.
Ms B has claimed for storm damage  to the roof and an internal ceiling in her property. And 
her policy does cover for storm damage. So the first thing I look at in this type of complaint is 
whether or not there was a storm at the relevant time. This is important because if there was 
no storm there cant have been any damage  caused by a storm.
If Im satisfied theres been  a storm I look at whether the damage to Ms Bs property is 
consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause and whether the storm was the main cause 
of the damage.
The weather  records for the period show the winds reached up to 41 mph.  But we would 
normally consider  storm winds to be stronger. It is possible for storm conditions  to take place 
without very strong winds. But Id expect the rain, hail or snowfall to be exceptional  before  it 
could be considered a storm. And the level of hourly  rainfall wasnt very high. So there 
doesnt appear to be any evidence  of a storm around the date of the claim.
I realise it was still too windy for the roofer to repair the roof during the first visit. But they 
would need to consider their own safety. And strong winds dont necessarily mean theres  
been a storm. Mr A says the delays allowed further damage to take place.  But LVs report 
says the damage  appeared  to be pre-existing.  It wasnt the same as the type of damage 
normally caused by a one-off event such as a storm.
LV considered Ms Bs independent report which suggested the high winds had moved  some  
tiles. And rain had entered  the property. But after reviewing the report and photographs  LV 
decided the damage wasnt consistent with storm damage. It said the roof seemed to be in 
poor condition  and LV didnt feel the damage had been caused by a storm. I know  the roofer 
thought the tiles had been  moved  by the recent  high winds.  But high winds wouldnt be 
classed as storm damage.  I accept the period of bad weather will have  made the situation 
worse. But Id expect  a well-maintained house  to be able to withstand  all but the most  severe  
weather events. 
As Ive previously explained it wouldnt  be fair for LV to consider a claim for storm damage 
when it doesnt  appear that a storm had taken  place around the time of the claim.  And the 
evidence suggests  the damage  to the roof is more  likely to have been from a number of 
causes including  gradual wear and tear. Its not consistent with the sort of damage normally 
caused by a storm.
I appreciate how upsetting this mustve been  for Ms B. LV has accepted there  were  strong  
winds and rain during  the period. 
But based  on what Ive seen I cant say LV has acted unfairly in declining  a claim for storm 
damage. There isnt enough evidence to suggest a storm took place around the time of the 
claim and caused  the damage Ms B has claimed  for. So I wont  be asking LV to do anything  
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN72446673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7244667