K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds) increased her home 
insurance premiums between 2010  and 2016  so she thinks  shes been  charged too much for 
a number of years. 
background 
Mrs C took out contents insurance through Lloyds Bank in 2010 paying  a premium (by direct  
debit in monthly instalments) of £77.12  for the year. The policy  automatically  renewed for a 
number of years and in 2016 Mrs C cancelled the policy  and complained to Lloyds. She said 
her premiums had increased every  year despite  not making any changes to her cover or 
making any claims. She said she hadnt  received any notification that her premiums  were 
due to increase.  She said she wanted  a refund.  
Mrs C also complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked into her complaint and, 
following his involvement;  Lloyds made  Mrs C an offer of £100  compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill to settle  the complaint. Our adjudicator  looked carefully at the offer,  considering it 
against Mrs Cs premium  history and her personal circumstances. Taking everything into 
account he told Mrs G that he thought  Lloyds  offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account Mrs Cs premium 
history, her personal circumstances, and whether she had been  able to engage in the 
renewal process. Having carefully considered  the offer made, I think  it represents  fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
Lloyds has said it thinks it could possibly  have done  more to help Mrs C find cheaper cover  
but that it was unlikely  to have been  before the 2013  renewal that it could have done this. 
Mrs C stayed with Lloyds  for two more  years after that. Looking  at the premiums charged 
and the amounts involved, Ive calculated that Mrs G is due a nominal refund for these two 
years of £50. But Lloyds has also taken into account  her comments about suffering financial 
hardship. As a result, it has increased the compensation its willing  to pay her on a goodwill 
basis to £100  in acknowledgment  of any upset the matter  has caused her. I think  that this is 
a fair offer in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs C the amount of £100  offered to her as a refund of some of her premiums 
since 2013 and in acknowledgment of any upset the matter caused her.  
Ref: DRN79464222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7946422