K821x#15complaint
Ms F has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to settle a claim as a fault  
claim under her car insurance policy. Ms F is also unhappy with the service  she received 
from AXA. 
background
Ms F bought a car insurance policy with AXA. In December 2017 she was unfortunately 
involved in a collision with another car. AXA settled the claim as a fault claim. 
Ms F was unhappy with AXAs  decision. She didnt think it had properly investigated the 
claim. And shed raised concerns about the colour  of the other car and validity of the other  
drivers claim. But she felt AXA had ignored  her. 
AXA said as Ms F had pulled out from a side road and the other driver was already 
established on the main road, its decision to hold Ms F at fault was correct.  It accepted  it had 
provided a poor service  to Ms F while dealing with her claim  so it apologised and paid 
Ms F £100 compensation.  
Ms F remained  unhappy, so she asked  us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought AXA had reached  its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim 
reasonably. While he thought AXA had paid a fair level of compensation for some of its poor 
service, he noticed that Ms F had repeatedly questioned the colour of the other  drivers car 
and AXA hadnt  answered her concerns. So for failing to reply  to Ms F, the investigator  
recommended AXA pay an additional £100 compensation. 
AXA accepted the investigators findings.  Ms F didnt agree. She doesnt believe she was at 
fault for the incident. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  liability. This is a role for the courts. But we look at whether an insurer  has 
reached its decision when  settling a claim in a fair and reasonable way. With this in mind,  we 
also consider what  the policy says.
Ms Fs policy  with AXA has a term Ive seen  in most   if not all motor insurance  policies. This 
term allows AXA to take over and control the defence  and settlement of a claim. This means  
it might  make a decision Ms F disagrees with, but the policy  allows AXA to do this. We dont  
object to this - provided the insurer can show it treated the customer  fairly when relying on 
the term.
The circumstances of the incident are that Ms F says she pulled out from a side road - and 
she says it was clear when she did so. Ms F explained that weather conditions  were poor. 
She believes the other driver was driving  too fast and caused  the cars to collide. 
Ref: DRN79751312AXA explained that the onus was on Ms F to check the road was clear before she carried out 
her manoeuvre. As the other driver was established  on the road she was travelling  on, AXA 
said it wouldnt be able to defend the claim.  
I understand Ms F feels strongly that AXA should  visit the scene to appreciate the road 
layout. And she doesnt think it should have reached its decision without physically 
inspecting her car. Ms F says this shows how minor the collision was. Ms F has suspicions 
about the other drivers  claim. 
However, I think AXA reached its decision based  on the information it had in a fair and 
reasonable way  based on the circumstances as Ms F described. It therefore  follows  that it 
had a duty to meet  any reasonable claim from the other driver. 
This means  that I think the recording of the claim as a fault claim should stand. I appreciate 
Ms F will be very disappointed.  But I think AXA has acted in line with the policy and in a fair 
way. 
Its clear that Ms F raised concerns as to the colour  of the other  drivers  car. She says it was 
a different colour  to the one the other driver described and reported to the police. 
Unfortunately Ms F didnt take any photos  when the incident  happened  and there arent  
any independent witnesses. The name  of the other driver and the make and model of the car 
is the same. So without  any evidence to support Ms Fs concerns, I dont think  AXA acted 
unreasonably by not making further  enquiries. But I think AXA should  have addressed  
Ms Fs concerns on this issue much sooner. So for failing to do this, I think  it added to Ms Fs 
worry and suspicion.  I therefore agree with the investigators recommendation to pay Ms F 
compensation of £100 to reflect the worry  AXA caused here. 
As AXA has agreed to pay Ms F a further £100  compensation,  I dont think it needs to do 
any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. If it 
hasnt already done so, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms F £100  compensation  in 
addition to the £100 its already paid for its poor service  for failing  to address her concerns 
as to the colour of the other drivers car. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Ms F accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7975131