K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
caravan. His complaint  is made against Santander under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974.  
background
Mr H used his Santander credit card in July 2013  to pay a £500 deposit for a new caravan  
and he used it in February  2014  to pay a further  £2,000 towards the cost of the caravan. He 
paid the balance of the purchase price  using his debit card and the caravan was delivered  to 
him in March 2014. He had some issues with the caravan  which  were  rectified  by the 
dealer. There were some issues with the caravans front window  in 2016 and the seals were  
replaced. When the caravan had its annual service  in 2017 some cracks were  noticed in the 
rear panel. The dealer  agreed to replace the entire  rear panel but, whilst waiting for a 
replacement part, the front window leaked  again  and the water  damaged  the cabinet below. 
The rear panel,  front window and cabinet top and doors were replaced  by the dealer in July 
2017.
But cracks in the rear panel were noticed again  in April 2018 when the caravan was being  
serviced. The dealer  offered to fit corner caps to cover the cracks and said that it would  take 
Mr Hs caravan as part exchange for a new or used caravan. Mr H didnt accept either of 
those offers  and claimed a refund of the money  that hed paid for the caravan from 
Santander under section  75. It said that it was unable to conclude that a breach of contract  
had occurred and that the dealer had carried out considerable  repairs and replacements as 
a gesture of goodwill  with no admission  that the faults were there at point of sale.  And it said 
that the dealers  offer of a free repair or part-exchange was fair and reasonable, taking into 
consideration the time passed since the purchase. Mr H wasnt  satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that he 
hadnt seen enough to be satisfied that thered been a breach of contract.  And he said that 
the original rear panel lasted three  years  (but the second lasted less than nine months)  so, if 
there was an inherent defect with the sub frame/supporting  structure, he wouldnt have  
expected the original  rear panel to last as long as it did. He also said that an independent 
inspection of the caravan hadnt been carried out. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
theres considerable evidence on-line of a defect with this model of caravan;
he believes that the caravan was sold to him with an inherent  defect or was 
manufactured badly  - which is widely recognised  for which  Santander is jointly 
responsible;
hes relied on the advice of an independent expert who says that his caravan has an 
inherent defect; and
hes been to the dealers to inspect the repairs  (which modify the sub frame  at all four 
corners to alleviate stress when the panel is bonded in place  and says that if there 
was no defect with the sub frame in the first place  then there would be no 
requirement to modify it)  and hes provided  photos of the repairs.
my findings
Ref: DRN75441342Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Hs complaint about  Santander,  I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer 
and that Santanders response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able 
to do that.
Its clear that Mr H feels strongly that the caravan that was supplied to him in March 2014  
had inherent defects and that Santander  should  refund to him the money that he paid for the 
caravan (less an adjustment for his use of it). 
And its also clear that there have been some faults with the caravan  which  Ive described 
above  the most significant of which relates  to the rear panel. It was replaced  by the dealer 
in July 2017 but has cracked again. The dealer has offered  to repair  the panel again  or to 
accept Mr Hs caravan in part-exchange for another caravan. But Mr H hasnt accepted that 
offer.
The dealer  says that theres not an inherent defect with this model  of caravan. And Mr H was 
able to use the caravan for three years before there was an issue with its rear panel. Mr H 
has referred to considerable evidence online about  a defect with this model of caravan which 
he says is confirmed by an independent  expert. But theres no report from an independent  
expert which says that Mr Hs caravan has an inherent defect and the on-line evidence 
doesnt show that Mr Hs caravan  is faulty or wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that theres  an inherent fault with 
this model of caravan or that the caravan  wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr H. The dealer has repaired some issues with the caravan, and it replaced the rear 
panel in July 2017. That repair lasted  nine months and the dealer  is repairing the caravan 
again  as described by Mr H. The dealer has also offered to accept Mr Hs caravan in part-
exchange for another caravan. I consider a repair or a part-exchange to be a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the issues that Mr H has experienced  with his caravan.  
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Santander to refund to Mr H any of the money  that he paid for the caravan, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7544134