K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that BISL Limited  has treated her unfairly in the customer service it has 
provided to her. 
background
This complaint is about how BISL treated Mrs N in the aftermath  of her taking and cancelling 
a motor insurance policy. BISL said it would pay Mrs N £60 but didnt until she chased  it 
many months later. It then paid the £60 along with an additional £50 for the poor customer 
service it provided plus just over £3 to reflect the interest due.
Mrs N doesnt feel the additional £53 is sufficient  so she complained  here. The investigator  
didnt agree with Mrs N. So her complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL objected  to this service looking  into the customer service it provided  before 3rd May 
2018 as that was the date it issued  a final response  letter regarding the customer service it 
had provided up to that point. As Mrs N hadnt  brought her complaint  to this service  within  
the six months she had to (as explained in that final response letter) we could not look into 
those issues. Our investigator explained  this to Mrs N.
As such I can only look into the customer service after May 2018. BISL had said it would pay 
Mrs N £60 but failed  to do so. Mrs N didnt chase BISL for this money until in the Spring of 
2019. BISL responded to this by writing to Mrs N on 26 March  2019 to explain it had now 
paid the £60 plus a further £53 as Ive described. Our investigator thought this was fair in the 
circumstances.
But Mrs N doesnt think so. She makes the point that she had to chase the business to get 
the money paid and that she didnt eventually get paid it until a long time after it was due. 
She says throughout this time she found  this distressing and of great inconvenience bearing 
in mind her employment situation and having  four children to pay for. She feels  being  
deprived of this important  money was especially inconvenient to her.
Having considered all the circumstances fully Im not persuaded by what Mrs N has said. 
There is no persuasive evidence of Mrs N talking to BISL about the outstanding £60 
between May 2018 and March 2019.  So it seems that she either thought she had been paid 
it or had forgotten about it. So I dont  think this omission by BISL caused Mrs N much 
distress or inconvenience during this time. So having considered this I think  the further £50 
and the added interest it paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going to 
ask it to do anything  further.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mrs N wants to hear. But I think that BISLs position 
has made good for what happened here. Consequently I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against BISL Limited.
Ref: DRN77921772Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7792177