K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card by filling in a paper application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr H mainly told us that he wasnt aware  that the PPI was optional and he signed  the PPI 
box because he thought it was part of the application procedure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken carefully into account  the reason why Mr H told us he signed to have  PPI. But this 
was a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr H to recall  exactly what  he 
had in mind at the time. I have  to look at all the available  information  and the wider  
circumstances and decide what I think is most likely.  What  Mr H says now isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint.
I can see from the credit card application form he completed that there  were  a range of 
optional extras offered on the form. It looks  like he chose not to sign up for all the options 
that were offered with the card. But where it says CARDHOLDER PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLAN  theres a brief description of the cover offered and applicants  are 
invited to sign if they would like to take advantage of it. Mr H signed  in the box next to 
where it says Sign here for cover.  
So I think the wording  and layout of the form made it clear  that if he hadnt wanted PPI Mr H 
couldve left this box blank. I can completely  understand if hes forgotten this now.  But, on 
balance, I think RBS made Mr H aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. 
RBS didnt advise  Mr H to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for 
him. But it still had to make sure that it gave  Mr H clear enough information so he was able 
to make a proper decision about  whether PPI was right for him. And if this didnt happen,  
then I have to think  about  whether this made any overall difference  to Mr H.
Ive taken into account that he told us he wouldve had good sick pay entitlement.  But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay  in full and for up to 12 months per claim. 
And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr H lost his job. 
Ref: DRN77969262Relying  on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  Mr H chose to take 
out the policy and so appears to have  wanted this type of cover, knowing what  his financial 
circumstances were  at the time. Based on everything hes told us, I think that Mr H couldve 
benefitted from the PPI.  
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr H wouldnt have  been covered for a pre-existing medical  condition  he had when he 
took out his RBS credit card. 
But Mr H told us that apart from a week off work  around the time he was diagnosed, some 
18 years  or so before he took out this credit  card, his condition hadnt  impacted on him being 
able to work. So I dont  think  having  more information about  this policy  limitation wouldve 
made any difference to his decision to take out the cover as Mr H wouldnt have expected 
this condition was likely  to lead to him being  off work and needing to make a sickness claim. 
And Mr H still had the benefit of other  cover  that the policy offered.  
I dont think its likely  that RBS properly explained  the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Mr H made  a claim. But he chose to have the policy when he didnt have to  and I havent 
seen anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for him when he signed up for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr H, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
This means  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H 
because: 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr H about that. 
Because The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN77969263my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796926