K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc refused his claim for chargeback. He says the vehicle 
he purchased using his Santander UK Plc Mastercard was not of satisfactory  quality. He 
wants a refund. 
background
Mr A tells us he bought  a vehicle through an online site. He said he made  the payment 
through his PayPal account. Mr A says the vehicle wont  start and hes found other faults. So 
hes not been able to use it. He wants the vehicle returned to the seller  and a full refund of 
the £900 he paid.
Santander told us it had refused Mr As claim for chargeback as he hadnt provided  enough  
evidence of the alleged faults.  It said it had also considered his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  But as he made  the payment through  his PayPal account  it was 
not able to take the matter  any further.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She explained Mr A 
didnt pay the money  directly to the seller  from his Santander credit card. She found  that Mr 
As card payment was made to PayPal. And the seller was paid using the funds  in the 
PayPal account.  So the structuring of the payments in this way meant  the debtor - creditor  -
supplier chain - which is necessary for a Section  75 claim  - had been broken.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view. He said the money had been taken by PayPal 
from his credit card - and hed had to repay Santander. He didnt think the link had been 
broken. He wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear Mr A has been  caused so much upset  and inconvenience  over this 
vehicle. Unfortunately I dont think Im going to be able to help him in the way he would wish. 
Ill explain  why.
Payments for goods and services - where something goes wrong - which  are made  through 
either debit  or credit cards  can sometimes be recovered either from the card provider or the 
supplier of credit. But there are various rules which affect these sorts of transactions. And 
only if the payment  is made in accordance with these rules  is a refund possible.
As far as chargeback  is concerned, its a voluntary scheme and the rules are laid down by 
the card supplier. Whilst Mr A supplied details of his complaint I cant see he provided 
additional evidence  in support of it. I can see in a letter  dated  20 July 2018  Santander asked 
for an independent review of goods. For example, this might  have been in the form of a 
vehicle inspection report detailing  any faults.  So I dont think  Santander did anything wrong 
in not taking the chargeback claim any further  without additional evidence.
Ref: DRN73657162I can see Santander did consider if a claim  might also be made under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1975.  This provision  is contained  in legislation  and all suppliers of 
relevant credit have  to follow  the applicable  law. In summary, a claim may be made  against  
the provider of credit - as well as the supplier  of the goods or services  - if there is a breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation in relation to the goods paid for by credit card. But for a 
claim to be successful a number of conditions have  to be met.
One of the relevant conditions which affects  Mr As transaction is the debtor - creditor  -
supplier relationship. This requires there  to be a pre-existing agreement between the creditor  
and the supplier. But in this case that link was missing. There  was no such  arrangement 
between Santander  and the seller  of the vehicle. Mr A used his Santander card to fund his 
PayPal account.  And then used his PayPal account to pay the seller. So the link was broken. 
That means the necessary conditions for a Section 75 claim to be processed  were not met. 
I should also add for completeness  that even if the link had not been broken it would still 
have been necessary for Mr A to show thered been  a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation. And that would probably  have required independent evidence  of the 
faults.
Its my understanding that the site through which he made the purchase excludes  motor 
vehicles from its money  back guarantee. And PayPal has a similar  exclusion when its 
payment services are used. So unfortunately Mr A couldnt obtain a refund through  these 
channels.
In summary,  I dont think Santander  has done  anything wrong in this matter.  And whilst  I 
know it will disappoint Mr A Im not upholding the complaint. Based on what Ive seen the 
only remaining remedy Mr A might  have would be to bring legal proceedings  against  the 
seller if that person wont refund  the payment. Whether to proceed in that way is a decision 
only Mr A can make.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7365716