K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with a car she acquired using finance provided by FCE Bank  Plc trading 
as Ford Credit. She says the engine failed  and she believes this is linked to a known issue 
with the engine type.
background
Mrs M acquired  a used car in January 2014. The car had covered  around 6,000 miles and 
was around seven months old when she got it. Although  she got the car from a dealer, it had 
been previously  financed and kept by a family member from new.
The car cost £13,092.21 and the total amount was financed by a hire purchase agreement  
provided by FCE. The agreement was taken over 60 months,  with monthly  repayments  of 
£269.48.
In November 2018 Mrs M says the car broke  down with no warning. At this time the cars 
mileage was around 50,151. Mrs M says the car was taken to a local garage  who changed 
the coil pack,  but this didnt fix the issue. The car was then recovered to a specialist garage 
at a manufacturers dealer by a breakdown company.  This garage investigated and 
attempted repairs by changing spark plugs, but this wasnt successful. Mrs M says she was 
told at this point  the engine  had failed, had a cracked piston and a bent cylinder. 
Mrs M said the garage told her it could look into what happened to the engine in more  detail, 
but shed have to pay for any further investigation.  She also says the garage told her it would 
cost a substantial  amount  to repair the engine,  so she decided  to trade in the car. The car 
was part exchanged for £1,500. Mrs M says this means shes been  left about £5,000 out of 
pocket, as the car wouldve  been  worth much  more if it was in working order.
The same month Mrs M complained to the manufacturer and dealer. She said, in summary, 
that she believes the engine failure was due to a known issue with this particular engine  
type. Mrs M had ongoing communications  with various people  at the dealer and the 
manufacturer before also complaining to FCE. 
In January 2020 FCE issued its final response  to Mrs M. In summary,  it said it had referred 
Mrs Ms complaint to the service manager at the garage where  the car was taken  to. It said 
they had confirmed the engine failure  was not linked to the known fault with this engine type 
but said it might have been  caused by worn  spark plugs. It said because  of this, it wasnt  
upholding Mrs Ms complaint and wouldnt look to compensate her.
Mrs M remained unhappy with this and our service began to look into her complaint. She told 
us shed seen  online that another person with the same issue  had their engine repaired free 
of charge. She said the car was now back on the road, so she felt the dealer had profited 
from what happened. And she said the car had a full service  history and had been well 
looked after so the engine  shouldnt have  failed when it did.
Our investigator issued  an opinion  explaining he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He said, in summary, that he was satisfied the engine developed a fault.  But, he said he 
didnt think it was likely this was linked to the known issue with the engine  type.  He said,  
given the mileage covered in the car since Mrs M got it, that he thought  the car wouldve 
been of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied.
Ref: DRN74189102Mrs M was unhappy with this. She reiterated  the arguments that shed previously made.  And 
she said if the failure was due to the spark  plugs, these had been changed as part of the 
cars servicing. Mrs M resubmitted some of the evidence shed already provided  and also 
sent in part of the cars service history.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint along  with what Mrs M had said and submitted but 
explained this didnt change his opinion.
The case  has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement.  Providing 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider  
Mrs Ms complaint about FCE. 
Mrs M has raised various complaint points about  the garages  and staff,  stemming  from the 
fact she wasnt able to take the car to her preferred garage when it broke down. I know  how 
strongly she feels about these issues - and that she believes  her preferred garage wouldve 
repaired the car free of charge. But, FCE are not responsible for the customer  service 
provided by the garages or the breakdown company. I can only consider FCEs role here.  
So, I wont comment on these issues further in my decision.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I have regard  for relevant law and regulations.  
In this case, the Supply  of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 (SOGA) is relevant. This says 
when Mrs M acquired the car the supplier  FCE in this case   had a responsibility  to make 
sure it was of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
expect  taking  into account any relevant factors.
Relevant factors here would be, amongst others, things like the age, price, description and 
mileage of the car. So, Ill bear in mind  the car Mrs M got was under a year old and had only 
covered around  6,000 miles.  Its also worth  noting in this case that the SOGA says durability 
of goods is part of satisfactory quality.
So, what  I need to consider here is whether the car was of satisfactory quality when Mrs M 
got it or not. 
It isnt in dispute here that a fault developed with Mrs Ms car. The particular type of engine  
Mrs Ms car had does have specific, reported and accepted issues associated  with it. So, Ill 
consider if I think the engine failed due to these specific  issues. If I think  it did, I would likely 
reach the conclusion  an underlying fault had been present since the car was produced.
Ive thought about the evidence from the time.  The job sheet dated  10 November 2018 says:
report replaced x3 spark plugs cracked
inv misfiring  new coil back (sic) fitted and compression test done rep on number one
Ref: DRN74189103Checked  misfire no compression on cylinder one
There is also a Technicians write-up that the garages  after sales  manager confirmed was 
from the time. This says:
Confirmed no compression  on cylinder  one. Replaced x3 spark  plugs  Cracked fault codes 
present printed of completed  VHC  No Sign of coolant failure  not applicable to affected 
(engine type) Re-call
Ive also reviewed all the communication provided  between Mrs M, the manufacturer and the 
dealers along  with all the other  evidence  on the case.
If the engine  failed due to the known and accepted issues, I would expect to see reports of 
either failed  or faulty specific parts, or a specific type of leak. But, none of the evidence  
confirms any of these  things. And, the write up from the garage specifically states the engine  
failure was not due to the known issues.
I know how strongly Mrs M feels about this. But, on balance, I dont think  its likely the engine 
failed due to the known  and accepted  issues with the engine type. It follows I think its most 
likely it failed for another reason.
In this case, there is a lack of evidence  from the time about what actually happened. I can 
understand Mrs Ms reluctance  to spend  further money at the time for the garage to 
investigate what went wrong. But this does unfortunately mean there  is little evidence to 
indicate what did ultimately cause the engine failure. 
I accept there were comments from the time suggesting the failure could  have been  due to 
spark plugs cracking and ceramic entering the engine, but there isnt enough to persuade 
me its most  likely this is what happened.
I know Mrs M suspected the dealer repaired the car and sold it on. So, I asked it to provide 
evidence of any work it had completed  once Mrs M part exchanged  it, in order to get a better 
understanding of what  went wrong  with the engine. But, it confirmed it was sent to auction 
after Mrs M got her new car.
Thinking about  all of this, based on the very limited information I have,  I think  its most likely 
on balance that if whatever  caused the engine to fail had been present or developing at the 
point of supply,  this wouldve become apparent earlier on.
So, then Ive considered if the engine failure  meant the car wasnt durable  and so not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I understand how upsetting it must have been for 
Mrs M for the engine  to fail when it did. But, I need  to consider that the car was over five 
years old at this point and Mrs M had covered  around 44,000 miles in it since  it was 
acquired.
Ive thought very carefully about this. But, I dont know  the ultimate cause behind the engine 
failure was. While Im satisfied this wasnt due to the accepted  fault, this could  be for a 
number of other reasons. Thinking about  all of this, and without knowing specifically what 
happened, I havent seen  enough to make  me think its most likely the car wasnt durable.
Given this and thinking about  the mileage Mrs M covered  in the car, it follows that I think its 
most likely it was of satisfactory quality  when supplied.
Ref: DRN74189104I have considered what Mrs M said about the spark plugs and that she believes these were  
changed in May 2016. But, as I explained  above,  I havent seen enough  to make me think 
the spark  plugs were  the likely cause for the failure.  So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive also reviewed what Mrs M sent in about another consumer  who she believes had the 
same issue  and had the repair cost covered  by the manufacturer. But, there is very limited  
information about what happened  here. I need  to consider what happened  under the specific  
circumstances of this individual case. So, this also doesnt  change  my opinion.
Finally, I want  to reassure Mrs M that I have carefully considered  everything  else she said 
and all of the information she provided about  this complaint. But, I still think the complaint 
should not be upheld for the reasons set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418910