K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited refused his claim  brought under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants it to refund the price difference between  vehicles 
which he says was guaranteed by the terms of his purchase.
background
Mr M tells us that he was considering purchasing a vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as E. 
He states that the vehicle had been  subject of a price  match  offer. This had promised  that  if 
the consumer  found a like for like vehicle, within five days, at a cheaper price with another 
dealer then the difference would be refunded by E. Mr M says he paid a deposit  of £200 in 
order to secure the vehicle with E. He states that he then found a like for like vehicle with a 
dealer called W and that the price of that vehicle was £2,807 less than that advertised by 
E. But when he sought  to claim  the difference he said E refused his request. Mr M says that 
as he paid using  a credit  card he made  his complaint  to MBNA but it also turned him down.  .
MBNA told us it didnt consider the vehicles  to be like for like. In particular it said the vehicle 
advertised by W was a category S vehicle unlike that advertised by E. This meant  it had 
previously been  in an accident  and suffered significant  damage.  It said this would have a 
negative impact on the resale.  And it said that Mr M had gone ahead  and purchased  the 
vehicle from E despite knowing  it had refused to refund the price match  difference.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that for her 
to do so there needed to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And she didnt think 
that applied here. She said the terms of the offer required  the vehicles to be like for like and 
she didnt think they were. She pointed to the difference  in colour as well as the one vehicle 
being Category  S. And she said that E had offered to cancel the contract and refund the 
deposit. As Mr M had still gone ahead knowing the price  difference  wouldnt be refunded  she 
couldnt say that hed been induced into buying  the vehicle.
Mr M didnt  agree with this outcome. He said there  was nothing  in the terms of the offer to 
say a CAT registered vehicle couldnt be used as a comparable. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M was disappointed not to be able to obtain the deal hed originally 
expected. And I accept  there was a significant difference in the prices  of the vehicles which  
were being  compared.
Its important for me to emphasise that this complaint is brought against  MBNA. So Im 
looking at how it dealt  with Mr Ms claim rather than at any underlying  claim he may have 
against E. Although in considering if MBNA has acted  fairly Ill take this into account.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes 
Section 75. Briefly  summarised, this states that wheres theres been a misrepresentation 
and/or breach of contract by the supplier  of goods ( E) then a consumer has a like claim 
against the supplier  of finance (MBNA).
Ref: DRN71717392A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer into entering  an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation suffers a loss. This means that if a 
consumer is aware that a statement is false or no longer applies and yet still goes ahead  and 
enters the agreement they arent  able to claim the agreement  has been misrepresented.
Simply put, Mr Ms complaint is that he saw a vehicle advertised  with a like for like price  
guarantee. He believes  the terms of the offer meant that if he found another  vehicle which 
met this description hed be entitled  to a refund  of the price  difference. And he feels  E didnt 
fulfil its contractual  obligations when (as he saw it) he found such a vehicle.
Having viewed the terms and conditions of the offer Im not surprised that Mr M was 
attracted by it. And I can see why he felt hed met the stipulated  requirements. But as is 
often the case,  the specific details contained  in the terms  and conditions  shows  the offer to 
be far more  restricted that might  appear at first sight.
I see considerable merit in Mr Ms view that they will never  be achievable. But as our 
investigator said in her view, its not within the powers of this service  to challenge the terms 
on which a business  operates or require  them  to be changed. And here the terms 
complained of werent even those of MBNA.
Where theres a dispute of fact Im required to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. Having compared the descriptions of the two vehicles Im of the opinion that - 
whilst they are similar - theyre not like for like within the definition contained in the relevant 
terms and conditions. And I dont think its feasible  for every feature of a vehicle that mightnt  
be viewed as like for like should be listed.
I think most  consumers would accept theres a material difference  between  a vehicle which 
falls within  the S category of previously damaged vehicles  and one which does not. It may 
be that both vehicles are now roadworthy but to many  consumers  the previous history  of a 
vehicle is a significant factor in determining if a purchase is to be made. And its possible that 
Mr M also took this into account when  he went  ahead and bought the more  expensive, non 
categorised vehicle.
There were other differences in terms of the colour of the vehicles (one white,  one silver) 
and the size of the respective dealerships.  And I was supplied with what appeared to be 
different versions  of the conditions  - one dated from 2012  and the other 2018. But as my 
final decision  was not affected by any variations in the terms I dont need to comment  
further. 
I think it was fair for MBNA to conclude  thered  been  no breach of contract. And as Mr M had 
the opportunity  to withdraw from the deal I cant see that the terms of it can be considered  to 
be misrepresented.
In summary,  I think MBNA has dealt with the complaint properly and has reached a fair and 
reasonable conclusion that it had no liability under section 75. For those reasons Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN71717393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7171739