K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy  that 
Canada Square  Operations Limited (Egg)  sold her in 2004.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 30th September 2019, where  I concluded that I was 
minded to not uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
In summary,  I found:
Miss S applied for a credit card in 2004.  At the same time a PPI policy was added. The 
policy covered her against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Miss S. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided including  a screen shot that it was 
more likely put across as an optional requirement and Miss S agreed to it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way Egg sold the policy.  But after careful 
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Miss Ss decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Miss S would  have necessarily declined the policy if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Miss S had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have put her off from having 
the cover  as she says she was taking medication  for it at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any further  information for me to consider.
As neither party has raised any further  points,  I see no reason to depart from my conclusion  
given within  the provisional decision.  So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do 
not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint and I do not make any award 
against Canada  Square Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7384749