K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about a mortgage  endowment policy she was sold in 1990. She 
believes it was mis-sold because it represented a risk to the repayment of her mortgage, 
which she was not willing to accept. She has also said she didnt need the life cover 
associated with the policy.
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited is responsible for the sale and will be referred 
to throughout  this decision  on that basis, even where activities were undertaken by previous 
life assurance providers.
Mrs C is represented in her complaint by a complaint management company.
background
At the time of the sale Mrs C was 24 years old, separated and was arranging a £21,600  
mortgage over 25 years.  She was employed full-time as a secretary and believes her income  
was between £12,000 and £15,000 a year. In addition, Mrs C believes she had some life 
insurance provided by her employer, but has been  unable to give any details. She has also 
confirmed she had no savings or investments. 
The endowment policy arranged had a target value and life cover  of £21,600 over a 25 year 
term. It was a traditional with-profits policy with a basic sum assured  of £7,452.22 (which 
was guaranteed to be paid at maturity) to which bonuses would be added throughout the 
term. The last premium  was paid to the policy in March 2001 and Mrs C surrendered  it in 
June 2001 for just under £5,000.
In her submissions to this service, Mrs C has said she was told she had to have an 
interest-only mortgage with an endowment.  She wasnt told about any risks associated  with 
the policy, but rather was told it would pay off her mortgage with an additional  lump  sum on 
top.
Prudential didnt uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. It concluded that the risks associated  with the 
policy werent unsuitable for her at the time of the sale. It also explained that the life cover 
was an integral part of the endowment policy  and needed in order  to provide its tax-free 
maturity status. So it didnt think that made it unsuitable either. 
Mrs C didnt accept Prudentials decision and referred  her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt  think the evidence indicated  the policy 
was unsuitable  for Mrs C. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mrs Cs representative didnt agree with the investigator. It said he had used assumptions 
when assessing  the complaint and would like it assessed again with no assumptions  being 
made. It considered the complaint should  be assessed based on Mrs C having not been 
willing to accept any risk at all with the repayment of her mortgage. It said Mrs C recalled 
being told that the endowment route was the way to go and all she was told was that it 
would pay off her mortgage  and there  would be a surplus. She was given  the impression the 
policy guaranteed to do this. Mrs C has said that if there had been any mention of the 
possibility of a shortfall,  she would have  refused to take the endowment  and insisted on an 
alternative way of repaying her mortgage.
Ref: DRN73169182Our investigator considered the representatives  comments, but they didnt change his mind.  
The representative made further submissions. It said that in its opinion  selling a consumer a 
product that had risks associated with it, but not making those risks clear, was 
misrepresentation. This was based on Mrs Cs recollection from the time of the sale that no 
risks were  declared to her. It reiterated  that Mrs C was a first time buyer and had no 
experience of investments. It said she wasnt given the opportunity to choose between  a 
mortgage that had risks associated with it and one that didnt. It believes that interest-only 
and repayment  mortgages should  have been fully explained to Mrs C and only after they 
were, should  she have been  asked  to make a decision about  what type she wanted.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly clarify that whilst  the mortgage and the endowment policy were both sold to 
Mrs C at the branch  of her lender, Prudential is only responsible for whether the investment 
product sold to Mrs C was suitable for her at the time of the sale.  As we have previously 
explained to Mrs Cs representative, any concerns she has about the mortgage advice, 
including whether an appropriate explanation of how mortgages worked and the different  
types, would  be the responsibility of the lender.  
Mrs Cs representative has said that assumptions  have been  made  about  Mrs Cs opinions,  
needs and attitudes at the time of the sale. Where  there is limited  information available from 
the time of a sale it is often necessary to make some assumptions and its not inappropriate 
to do so. It is also not appropriate  to use hindsight when reaching  conclusions on such 
cases. We have to assess a case based  on what we know  about the exact  circumstances at 
the time,  the regulatory environment and requirements, common  selling practices and 
general industry attitudes/concepts of products being sold.
I would also comment that whilst  Mrs C is now adamant that she wouldnt have accepted  
any risk at all with her mortgage, even  for the potential for additional gain; that is a 
recollection of a conversation that happened  nearly  30 years ago. I have to take into account 
that memories fade and recollections change over time. An example of this would be that 
Mrs C completed  a questionnaire recently in which she recollected  having surrendered the 
policy several years before she actually did. 
So I must look at a consumers circumstances, what they were sold, what they were likely  
told and the information they were given, alongside their recollections,  to decide whether a 
policy was mis-sold. To be clear, in order to uphold a complaint I must be persuaded that the 
financial business being complained about  did something wrong. In this case,  I must  be 
persuaded the policy was unsuitable  for Mrs C. That it might have been, isnt sufficient  for 
me to be able to uphold  this complaint. 
Mrs Cs endowment policy was considered  to represent little risk at the time it was sold. 
Whilst changes to the financial markets over the following decade or so after the sale may 
have changed  that perception, I must work  from the basis of what  the understanding  of the 
policy was at the time. Such policies were  considered suitable for most people  at the time. 
Only for those who were  positively risk averse  would Mrs Cs policy have been deemed 
Ref: DRN73169183unsuitable. The only guarantee associated  with the maturity value was that the basic  sum 
assured would be paid. This was a sum significantly smaller than the target amount. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time since the policy  was surrendered  we dont have  an 
accurate record of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. However,  based  on what we do have 
from the time and Mrs Cs recollections  it would seem she was in a financially stable  
position. She remembers having an income that was above the national  average,  possibly 
significantly above it. She had no dependents or any debts.  
The mortgage when  compared to Mrs Cs income  was well within most lenders normal 
criteria of a maximum  of up to three  times income.  That would indicate once she had moved  
into her new home, she was unlikely to be financially  stretched. The policy was also due to 
mature long before Mrs C was due to retire, so if there was a shortfall, she would have had 
plenty of time to deal with it before her income dropped at retirement.
So there was nothing in Mrs Cs circumstances that would  indicate she couldnt  have taken  
the small amount  of risk the policy was considered to represent had she wanted to, possibly 
in order to hopefully  receive a surplus  after the mortgage was paid off. 
I must also consider the information Mrs C would have been given and shown at the time of 
the sale. Whilst the illustration from the time isnt available,  it was a regulatory  requirement 
that one was produced and given to a consumer. I have seen many illustrations from around 
the time this policy was sold and at the lower growth rate it would have shown the policy  not 
maturing with sufficient  funds to pay off the mortgage. So I think it likely a risk probably was 
mentioned to Mrs C, albeit one that was not expected to come  to fruition. 
Mrs Cs representative has said she didnt have any need for the life cover associated  with 
the policy. Having  no dependents or spouse  at the time could support that she didnt need to 
leave the property to anyone, although  it wouldnt rule out her wanting to do so. However, 
the simple fact is the life cover was an integral part of the endowment policy.  It meant  that 
when it matured the value above  the amount paid in premiums would have been completely 
tax free. In addition,  given Mrs Cs age, the cost of the associated  life cover would have 
been minimal. So I am not persuaded the inclusion of the life cover, given its benefits, would 
make an otherwise suitable policy unsuitable.
I can never know for certain  what Mrs Cs attitude toward risk was at the time of the sale.  
Nor can I know whether  she would  have accepted the low level of risk, which  was never  
expected to come to fruition, in exchange  for the potential of a surplus  sum after the 
mortgage was paid off. The evidence indicates that Mrs C was in a position to accept the risk 
associated with the policy as it was perceived at the time and that she is likely  to have been 
told that risk existed. As I said above, in order  to uphold  a complaint I must be satisfied 
Prudential got something wrong. The evidence here isnt sufficient to persuade me that it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept  or reject my decision before 
13 September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316918