K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained that George Banco Limited (Banco) acted irresponsibly when it 
accepted her as guarantor for a loan taken out by Mr B.
background
Mrs M entered into a guarantee  and indemnity agreement in respect of a £7,000 loan that 
Banco provided  to her partner Mr B, the borrower, in December 2015.  The loan was due to 
be repaid in monthly instalments of around  £341.  From what  Ive seen, the total amount to 
be repaid over the original loan term was just over £12,276 including interest.
Banco has told us that the original monthly  repayments of £341 became unaffordable  for the 
borrower and the loan was rewritten in August 2016 (under a different loan reference 
number) to reduce the monthly  repayments to around £127.
Mrs M says she couldnt afford  to act as the loan guarantor and that Banco should have 
realised this, if it had carried out proper checks at the time. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ms complaint.  She thought that Banco shouldnt  
have accepted Mrs M as the loan guarantor. Ive not seen a response from Banco to the 
adjudicators assessment.  As Mrs Ms complaint has not been resolved informally, the matter  
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77730052Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit  and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant  rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law. 
Banco needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when it 
accepted Mrs M as guarantor for Mr Bs loan.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what it means for Mrs Ms complaint.  In doing  so, I have considered  the overarching 
questions:
Did Banco obtain Mrs Ms properly informed  consent to become guarantor  for the 
loan?
Did Banco carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
was in a position to sustainably repay  the loan, in the event  that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have  shown at the 
time?
Ultimately,  did Banco  make a fair lending  decision (as Mrs M would be equally liable 
for this loan with the borrower).
There is limited  information available about what happened at the time, but I have not seen 
anything which makes  me think that Mrs M didnt consent to becoming the loan guarantor. 
From what  Ive seen, I think its likely that Mrs M understood  that she might be called upon  to 
repay the loan,  if the borrower didnt  meet the loan repayments himself.
Mrs M has told us that she was pressured  into becoming the guarantor  by Mr B. Mrs M says 
her relationship with the borrower subsequently broke down and she cannot afford to repay 
the loan in place of Mr B.  I am sorry that Mrs M has experienced such  a difficult time. But I 
have to consider  whether Banco was aware,  or ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
Mrs M might be acting  under  some form of pressure when it accepted  her as the loan 
guarantor. I have thought  about this very carefully.  But I havent seen enough evidence  of 
what happened at the time for me to fairly say that I think  Banco ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mrs M was feeling  pressured by the borrower. 
Mrs M also says the Borrower was unemployed at the time he took out the loan, but she 
didnt feel she could  refuse to guarantee the loan at the time. I havent seen any information  
about the borrowers circumstances  at the time he applied for the loan, so I cant make  any 
finding about whether or not Banco should have provided the loan to Mr B. 
But in any event, I dont  think  Banco  ultimately  made a fair lending decision when it accepted 
Mrs M as the loan guarantor and I will explain why.
The rules  and regulations required Banco to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Mrs M could afford to repay this loan sustainably, as guarantor,  if 
she was called to do so - as she was equally liable with Mr B for this debt. Banco had to 
carry out this guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks  it was 
required to undertake in relation to the borrower.  In effect this meant  that Banco had to 
Ref: DRN77730053ensure that, if the guarantee was enforced against  Mrs M, it wouldnt adversely impact her 
financial situation. There was no set list of checks that the lender had to do, but it could 
consider a number  of different things  such as the loan amount, the length of the loan term, 
the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall financial circumstances.
Banco asked Mrs M for information about her income and expenditure; it also acquired a 
credit report.  Banco  says that sufficient checks were carried out and that Mrs M could afford 
to guarantee the loan. 
The very limited information  that Mrs M provided about her financial position  in her 
application form would seem to suggest  she could have covered the loan repayment each 
month, if called to do so. But I think Banco was aware from Mrs Ms credit  report  that she 
already had existing credit  commitments  of more than £20,000 including  a bank loan of 
£18,200 taken  the previous month. From the information available, its not clear to me how 
this loan was to be repaid but it was a substantial credit commitment and Ive not seen 
anything that suggests that Banco queried  this debt with Mrs M. 
Mrs M was applying  to Banco to act as guarantor  for an expensive loan, repayable over a 
long period. In the circumstances I would expect  Banco to have wanted to gather and 
independently check more detailed information  about Mrs Ms financial situation before 
accepting her as loan guarantor.  Overall, I cannot fairly say that I think the checks  Banco 
carried out were reasonable or proportionate.
Mrs M has provided us with copies of her bank statements  leading  up to her application to 
act as loan guarantor. So, I can determine  what better checks might  have shown Banco at 
that time.  And I have considered this information  in light of what Ive set out above. Of 
course, different  checks might show different things. But I think if Banco had carried  out what 
I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered  more about 
Mrs Ms financial position.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs M held more than one bank account at the time including a joint 
account and a sole account.  Its difficult to determine  Mrs Ms regular expenditure at the time 
but the bank statements do show regular direct  debits,  overdraft  fees and funds being 
transferred to Mr B. On balance and given what was known about Mrs Ms financial position,  
including the information on her credit  report,  I think Banco ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mrs M would most likely  struggle financially, if she was called upon to make 
payments as loan guarantor, and that she would be unable to do so sustainably,  over the 
extended loan term. In the circumstances,  I think Banco ought reasonably to have concluded 
that it was not appropriate  to accept Mrs M as loan guarantor for Mr B.
I think Banco  acted unfairly when it accepted Mrs M as guarantor  on Mr Bs loan so Banco  
must now put things  right.
Putting things  right 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt  taken place. In this case, this means Banco putting Mrs M in the position 
shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor  on 
this loan.
So, Banco should put things right for Mrs M by:
Ref: DRN77730054a)Releasing Mrs M from any obligations under  the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it.
b)Refunding any payments made by Mrs M as guarantor. Banco must add 8%* simple 
interest a year to each  of those sums, from the date Mrs M paid them to the date the 
refund is paid to her.
c)Removing  any information  about this loan from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Banco to deduct  tax from this interest. Banco should give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct George Banco Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7773005