K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about transactions on her PayPal  Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA account  which  
she hadnt authorised.
background
Ms W said that a fraud had been committed against  her through her PayPal account. Her 
account had been hacked.  Four payments were made using her account  in May and June 
2017. But PayPal  hadnt refunded the transactions.
PayPal said itd been notified  that four chargebacks had been raised against payments that
Ms W said were  unauthorised. But PayPal said the chargebacks had been investigated and 
declined by Ms Ws bank. 
So Ms W raised a complaint with PayPal and asked  them to investigate  the payments. She 
was sure she hadnt authorised them. Ms W wasnt satisfied with PayPals response.  So she 
contacted our service  and our adjudicator looked  into the matter. He could see Ms W had 
moved abroad in April 2017.  But she hadnt updated her billing or delivery address with 
PayPal. And the four disputed  payments had been  made using her old address.
Our adjudicator said any transactions  wouldve been  confirmed  to Ms W by email  and her 
email address hadnt altered. The transactions had been made over a period of time using 
the normal postal  and email addresses. And that wasnt the normal pattern when fraudulent 
transactions took place. So he didnt think there was enough  evidence  to confirm  the 
payments had been unauthorised.
Ms W didnt  agree. The payments were for items she had never purchased.  So shes  asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting  this mustve been for Ms W. Four disputed  transactions were 
made on her PayPal account.  She didnt authorise  any of them. So Ive looked very carefully 
at the transactions and the circumstances surrounding them.  
As our investigator explained, we would expect  fraudulent transactions to follow certain  
patterns. This might involve a test transaction to see if the fraud is successful. And then a 
quick sequence of other  transactions until the fraud  is spotted. 
But in this case the four transactions took place  over a couple of months. None of the 
address or contact  details were altered. And PayPal sent confirmation emails to the 
registered email address  on the account after each transaction. Rather than continuing  the 
fraudulent transactions there dont seem to have  been any more attempts after June 2017.
I can see PayPal has also carried out a thorough investigation into the disputed  payments. 
And they havent  found any evidence to confirm a fraud has taken place. The transactions 
seem to follow the same process as other transactions Ms W previously carried out, 
including the card details and delivery address.
Ref: DRN73301332I do realise Ms W is sure she didnt make  the disputed transactions.  But I would need more 
information to confirm a fraud had been committed before Im able to ask PayPal to refund  
the amounts paid.  
Unfortunately, based on what Ive seen, there  simply isnt enough evidence to uphold the 
complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Ms W hoped for. But I hope this shows Ive fully 
investigated the complaint and the reasons  behind  my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7330133