K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) has declined a claim under her travel  insurance policy.
background
On 3 March 2019 Ms C suffered  an injury  abroad  when a motorbike  fell on her and broke  the 
tibia bone in her leg.
She was admitted to a public  hospital after the accident. The hospital immobilised her leg 
and she was discharged with a prescription and returned to her holiday site by ambulance  
the same  day. 
On 4 March 2019 Ms C contacted Mapfre to make a claim.  She said that shed  been  advised 
by the doctor at the public  hospital to go to a private  facility for surgery  and she had an 
appointment booked at 5pm that evening.  
Ms C was admitted into the private facility and surgery for her leg was booked  in for 7 March. 
Ms C was told repeatedly  by Mapfre that surgery would not be authorised  because  it didnt  
feel there was evidence it was medically needed. It told Ms C she would be repatriated  back  
to the UK and undertake  surgery  back home.
Ms C says she was unfit to travel and was told she needed the procedure  to take place 
abroad. 
Ms C says Mapfre  didnt offer her any alternative options for the medical treatment she 
required to take place abroad. So as she was unfit to travel, the operation  in the private 
facility went ahead and Ms C submitted a claim on her travel  insurance policy.  
Mafre declined the claim so Ms C referred  a complaint to this service for consideration. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  and originally upheld it. The business disagreed  and 
argued there  wasnt any medical  evidence to show she couldnt  have been repatriated and 
treated in the UK. So the investigator considered everything a second time and felt the 
business had acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Ms C felt this wasnt a fair outcome and provided additional medical  evidence  to show  she 
was advised to refer herself to the private facility for treatment abroad  as she wasnt fit to 
travel. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2020 where I said:
Im not satisfied Mapfre were proactive in assessing this claim and keeping  Ms C informed. 
Ms C has spent a lot of time and effort providing supporting medical  evidence  and I want to 
thank her for this. And assure her that, although I may not refer to everything, I have read 
and considered all of her submissions.
Mapfre has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly, and it shouldnt reject  a 
claim unreasonably.  So, Ive looked  carefully at all the circumstances of Ms Cs claim to 
decide if thats what happened in this case.  
Ref: DRN76043972Its clear Ms C was repeatedly told Mapfre didnt authorise the private treatment. But this 
was based on their understanding that she was fit to fly, due to a lack of supporting evidence 
from the public hospital treating doctor.  So Ms C persisted in trying  to obtain this information 
for Mapfre.  I can see she tried on numerous  occasions to arrange calls between the private  
facility and the insurer that were  unsuccessful. 
On Mapfres internal notes dated 5 March I can see the medical  director Dr Carlos Alonso 
said The medical report  is confusinggives  discharge recommendation without  mentioning 
surgery doctor also wrote request preop implying they considered  surgery  at some  point. 
Tibial fractures are normally fixed with surgery. Ms C to see orthopaedic surgeon asap to 
confirm if surgery needed. She is due to return home on 21/03  she should not wait that long 
to be seen.  So its still unclear  at this point if immediate surgery abroad is required.  But 
Mapfre is made aware of the need  for a decision on this being made promptly.
Dr Alonso  also says If she is not to be assessed in Spain  she should curtail  and return  
home as soon as possible.with wheelchair assistance, three seats and a FTF certificate.  
Again reminding Mapfre of the urgency  of the situation. And advising it that curtailment or 
repatriation would only be possible with a fit to fly certificate. 
Initially it appears as though  there  isnt medical  evidence available  to show Ms C wasnt fit to 
fly  despite her efforts to obtain this. However, I can see Mapfres  medical  team produced a 
report on the day before the surgery was booked in for. 
Dr Gill Jenkins report labelled  report 2 dated  6 March 2019, confirms  to Mapfre that Ms Cs 
surgery is medically necessary. It also says she is unfit to travel back  to the UK so insurer  
should look to transfer to public facility. So Im satisfied from the point this report was 
received, Mapfre still had time to try and resolve  the matter.  But I cant see any significant 
attempts were made to do this  despite knowing the surgery  was booked in for the next 
day. 
I appreciate there wasnt much time left before  the procedure was due to start. However,  
Mapfre shouldve stepped in at this point and re-assessed their position based  on this new 
information. And ensured it communicated with Ms C in the morning of her procedure   
especially if they planned to move her to a public  facility  for the same surgery.  This wouldve 
reassured Ms C and may have prevented her from having to go-ahead with the surgery  at 
the private facility.  
From the claims notes it appears  that Mapfre still didnt take any steps to investigate  if there 
were any other options for Ms C to have this procedure carried  out elsewhere. From what I 
can see, it spent  the next morning going back to their medical team  to ask about moving her 
to a public  facility  when  this had already been confirmed in the previous report. And then 
asked again about repatriation when  it had already been advised Ms C was unfit to travel to 
the UK.
As Ms C was being  so persistent and willing to help substantiate her position - that shed 
been told she was unfit to fly - I think Mapfre couldve  done more to explore what other 
options were available for the treatment to have been carried  out at a public facility.  I note 
Mapfre had to contact  the public  hospital  anyway to speak to the treating Doctor about what  
had happened  when Ms C was discharged  so it couldve also asked about surgery  space 
there and then. 
Ref: DRN76043973Instead Mapfre just continually repeated that repatriation was the only option. And I can 
appreciate why, based on what  she had been told by the doctor,  Ms C wasnt  happy to 
accept that. 
Had Mapfre been more  proactive in trying to support Ms Cs understanding of her situation, it 
may have  become apparent earlier  on that Ms C wasnt fit to fly. And had it taken action after 
receiving medical report 2 it couldve explored  the possibility of having Ms C transferred to a 
public facility. 
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that Ms Cs surgery was medically 
necessary and had to happen abroad. And as Mapfre failed to investigate  the possibility of 
moving Ms C to a public facility, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms C to have gone 
ahead with the private operation. So, I think Mapfre was unfair  in declining  this claim. 
Ive also thought about the trouble and upset this matter caused Ms C at what would already 
have been a difficult time.  And  the further  distress  caused by the delay in the claim being 
accepted and the lengths Ms C has had to go to, to prove her claim.  All of this could have 
been avoided  had Mapfre been  provocative  in supporting Ms C at the time of her operation. 
So, I intend to direct Mapfre to pay Ms C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Ms C responded to my provisional decision  and accepted it. Mapfre hasnt provided any
comments on the decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms C accepted my provisional  decision and Mapfre didnt have any further comments, I
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. I 
require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to do the 
following;
pay Ms Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the
policy;
add 8% simple interest  from the date of the claim until the date of settlement;
Pay Ms C £250  for the trouble and upset caused

Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 October  2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7604397