K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy through a total mortgage protection  
policy (TMPP).
background
In 2002, Mrs and Mr S took out a mortgage and PPI policy to protect  their mortgage 
repayments in the event  of accident,  sickness or unemployment. Only Mr S was covered 
under the policy.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. Mrs and Mr S didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman  to review  their complaint. They said, in summary, that they 
wouldnt have agreed to take PPI as Mr Ss father was wealthy and had told them not to 
take insurance because he would help them make their repayments. They also said that 
Mr S recalled being told that if they didnt sign the paperwork as it was, their mortgage 
wouldnt go through. Mrs and Mr Ss complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints  about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs and Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mrs and Mr S took out the insurance. Mr S 
says he recalls being told they had to sign the paperwork to get the mortgage. It wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly what was discussed at the time, given the 
time that has passed. This means that what Mrs and Mr S say isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold their complaint. I must  look at the available  information and take 
into account the wider  circumstances to decide what most likely happened,  based on 
whats available.
Bank of Scotland no longer has a copy of Mrs and Mr Ss mortgage or PPI application. 
Banks often only keep records for six years, so thats not surprising. Based on what  weve 
learnt about Bank of Scotlands sales  processes around the time of sale,  I think  the 
paperwork wouldve likely made it clear that PPI was an optional  extra  and that they 
wouldve been required  to sign to say they wanted it before it was added. 
In order  to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint, Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added  to their mortgage account  
without their consent. But I cant fairly  say that based on the information Ive got, and what  
we know about  Bank  of Scotlands sales  processes around that time.
Ive also considered what Mr Ss recently  said about  being  pressured into taking PPI, 
because he didnt think he would get the mortgage  without it. But, this is a very subjective 
Ref: DRN73781332area, and quite some time has passed. Mr S didnt mention this when he originally made 
his complaint to this service. He recalled then PPI being added  without him knowing it had 
been. Its understandable, given how long ago this happened, that Mrs and Mr S cant 
remember everything and memories can fade over time. I havent heard enough to 
persuade me that more likely than not Halifax pressured Mrs and Mr S into buying  PPI. 
I think Mrs and Mr S probably wouldve understood that it wasnt  necessary to take PPI to 
get the mortgage, but opted  to do so.
I also think it likely that there was a conversation about PPI as they opted to take some  of 
the insurances on offer and not others.  They also took out PPI in Mr Ss name only,  even 
though this was a joint mortgage and they were both working. So, I think it likely that they 
opted to take out only the insurances they wanted  and those that best met their needs.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mrs and Mr S werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make an informed choice that they wanted it. 
On balance, I think its just as likely  that Mrs and Mr S were  persuaded of the need to 
protect their home by taking out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy.
The policy was recommended to Mrs and Mr S. So, Bank of Scotland had to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for them, as well as giving them information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that they could make  an informed choice about whether the policy was 
right for them and they wanted to buy it.
Only Mr S was covered  under the policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage,  Ive taken into 
account Mrs Ss circumstances too when deciding if the policy  was right for them. It doesnt 
look like PPI was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr S based  on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
Mr S appeared eligible to take out the cover.
 Mr S said he wouldve got around 12 months worth of sick pay from work if he 
wasnt able to work due to accident  or sickness. They said Mrs S was eligible 
to get the same amount  of benefit from her employer, if she was off work sick. 
They both said they wouldve also got redundancy pay. But I still think TMPP 
couldve provided them with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up to 24 
months per successful claim if Mr S was off work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. Mr S couldve made  repeated claims under the policy. So 
TMPP gave them long term protection for their mortgage, protecting  their home 
for longer  than Mr Ss work benefits  wouldve covered him for. It wouldve 
allowed them to use their other  means, including Mrs Ss income, to meet their 
other household  expenses.
I accept that Mr Ss father may have  wanted  to help with their repayments.  But, 
circumstances can change and so I havent  placed much  reliance on this. It 
didnt provide them with a guarantee  that their payments  would be met. So, I 
still think the PPI couldve  been useful to them in their circumstances, 
particularly given  the length of cover. So, I cant see that their other resources 
made this policy unsuitable  for them.
 there were some things the policy didnt cover.  I cant  see that Mr S was 
affected by these.  So, I dont  think having  more information about  things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN73781333 Mrs and Mr S paid a monthly  premium  for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay 
interest on the premium  and couldve stopped  the policy at any time without 
losing out financially.  I cant see that it was unaffordable.
 Its possible  they couldve been  given  clear information about the costs and 
benefits. But, I dont  think having  clearer information wouldve changed their 
decision as the TMPP seemed affordable. I think they wouldve understood that 
they had to pay separately  for it and it seemed suitable for their needs.
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided them with useful protection  to 
safeguard their home.
Its possible there may have been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold. But, 
I think Mrs and Mr S still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances for 
the reasons Ive explained. I cant see that theyve  lost out because  of anything that Bank  
of Scotland may have  done wrong.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7378133