K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
March 2006, August  2006 and May 2007.  Miss A says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her the 
PPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  because:
Miss A says that she was unaware that shed agreed to PPI. But I think Lloyds made  
it clear that Miss A was agreeing to take out PPI. I think it was clear that she didnt 
have to take out the PPI policies  if she didnt want them  but she chose to take them 
out. I say this as I can see Miss A completed separate PPI application forms on each 
occasion and those forms made it clear that she was applying for PPI. However,  I 
can understand if she cant remember this as it did take place some time ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policies to Miss A, so it had to check  that the PPI 
policies were right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the 
time, I think that they were. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits  on, the PPI cover and she seems  to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss A about the PPI policies wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take them out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like they would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable  at the time.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI policies  would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said - including what she said about  the amount of 
sick pay she was entitled to receive  at the time. But the PPI polices wouldve paid out the 
benefit in addition to any sick pay she could receive   so she couldve used any sick pay and 
savings to pay for other expenses. And as the consequences for not keeping  up with 
mortgage repayments can be serious,  I think  have  the PPI cover wouldve provided peace  of 
mind should  the worst happen.
Miss A has also said that life and critical illness cover was also sold around the same time 
and she feels that she was over insured. However,  they are different types of policies to PPI. 
For example, they pay out a lump sum in the event of death  or a critical illness,  whereas PPI 
would cover the monthly mortgage repayments in the event of illness  or unemployment. So I 
dont think the insurance benefits duplicated  cover. So these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Miss A some of the 
commission she paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont  apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  And as Miss As 
Ref: DRN76845702mortgage was a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Miss A paid for the PPI policies  she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7684570