K821x#15complaint
Company A complains  Aviva Insurance Limited  has unfairly refused a claim on its mini fleet 
motor insurance policy.
Company A has been represented. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions of the 
representative as being those of Company  A.
background
In January 2020 I issued a provisional decision.  I said why I didnt intend  to require Aviva to 
pay Company As claim or do anything differently. I asked both if they had any further 
information they would like me to consider before  I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Neither Aviva nor Company A provided any new information. So I dont have  anything  to 
consider here or any reason to change my mind. So Im not making  Aviva  pay the claim or 
do anything differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay Company As 
claim or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN72522362Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Company A complains Aviva  Insurance Limited has unfairly refused a claim on its mini fleet motor 
insurance policy.
Company A has been  represented. For simplicity  Ive referred  to the actions of the representative as 
being those of Company A. 
background
In 2017 Company As car was involved in a collision with another vehicle. There  was damage to its 
bumper and a wing. Company A didnt  claim  for that damage on its Aviva policy. Aviva settled a claim  
from the driver of the other vehicle.  
A few months later Company A noticed the car wasnt running properly. Various attempts at repair 
were made by a dealership. Eventually it was discovered  the car had a problem with its radiator  
causing damage to various engine parts. Company  A says the radiator damage was caused by the 
impact in the collision. It says the contact twisted the cars  frame out of alignment  damaging the 
radiator and causing further engine problems. It feels its provided enough information to show this. 
So it wants it wants Aviva  to cover the cost of the damage. 
But Avivas  refused. It says damage to the radiator  and engine were  a result of mechanical  failure  
not impact during the collision. And thats not covered by the policy.  But  it offered  to cover the costs 
of repairs to the bumper and wing.   
One of our Investigators felt Aviva hadnt considered the claim fully. She recommended  an 
independent engineer  should decide if the radiator  and chassis were damaged in the incident  with 
the assessor costs split between Company A and Aviva. Company A accepted that. But Aviva didnt. 
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to require  Aviva to pay the claim or do 
anything differently.
Company As policy covers damage to its vehicles. But it excludes  mechanical breakdown. So 
Aviva needs to show the damage was most  likely  mechanical breakdown   instead of being  caused 
by the collision.   
Since our Investigator considered the complaint Company As provided  an engineer report of its own. 
Company A says its engineers opinion is that the accident caused the damage. Avivas  considered 
the report. It didnt change its mind on the claim.  It says the report doesnt  support Company As belief 
that the radiator and engine  damage was caused by the collision. 
Ive given  most consideration to the opinions of those  most qualified  Avivas and Company As 
engineers. Unfortunately for Company A neither seems  to support its claim  that the chassis and 
cooling system was damaged by the collision.  It does seem  to be more mechanical breakdown. So I 
dont think Avivas decision to refuse  to cover any damage  to the engine or chassis is unreasonable. 
Aviva says a failed head gasket caused the damage. Company As position  is that the chassis was 
damaged, by the impact, in some way. And that it was the chassis, out of alignment, that caused 
damage to the radiator  and so on. 
Ref: DRN72522363To be persuaded by Company A Id first needs to think the chassis was damaged by the impact. 
Avivas engineers dont agree thats what happened.  Importantly,  from my reading of it, neither  does 
Company As.
That engineers report says no obvious impact damage could be seen to the chassis.  It says the 
chassis front weld brackets appeared to be out of alignment to the eye. And that measurement 
showed some  discrepancies  of 1mm and 3mm. But it added the chassis was within the 
manufacturers stipulated tolerances. Importantly the report  doesnt seem to conclude that there was 
any impact  damage  to the chassis caused by the collision. 
That report is confident  the engine problems  were  directly related to the radiator  failure. But 
importantly it doesnt conclude that the collision  or any misalignment  of the chassis caused  the 
damage to the radiator.  Neither of the most qualified engineers to inspect the car has said the collision 
caused the damage. So it seems most  likely  to me that mechanical breakdown  was the cause. 
So Company As engineers  report hasnt made me think Avivas decision to refuse the claim  for 
chassis or engine damage is unfair. As the report hasnt made  a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint it wouldnt be fair to require Aviva to cover its cost.
Aviva offered to pay for the damage to the bumper  and the wings. But Company A said it didnt want  
to be paid the cost of that. The repairs had been covered by a third party.  If Company A changes its 
mind it will need to contact  Aviva.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Company As 
claim or do anything differently. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7252236