K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the service  shes received from Studio Retail Limited (SR) in 
relation to her catalogue shopping  account.
background
Mrs M says SRs chasing her for a balance on her account that doesnt  take account  of 
items shes returned. She says it hasnt returned a payment of £261 to her that shes entitled 
to. And she says it hasnt  responded to her or her solicitor about  this matter.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the invoices SR charged  to Mrs Ms account during the relevant period. And I 
see for items  that were successfully returned and credited to her account, theres an entry 
confirming that this has taken place. From  the information Ive seen I cant conclude theres 
been any failure by SR to credit  items  returned by Mrs M to her account.
I note Mrs M thinks SR should  return a payment of £261 to her. This may relate to items on 
the most  recent invoice charged  to her account,  but the records  SRs given us doesnt show  
any of these items as having been returned. And, in these circumstances, I dont have 
enough information to uphold this aspect of Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive looked at the information we have about  Mrs Ms contact with SR about  this matter. And 
I see she made a number of calls about matters including  the balance  on her account, the 
possibility of returning further  items and about  making a complaint. From the information  Ive 
seen, including  SRs contact notes, I dont have enough information to conclude  it failed to 
respond to Mrs Ms communications appropriately  or in a reasonable time.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Studio Retail Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ref: DRN71474142Robert Collinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7147414