K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about a car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  T/A: Alphera  Financial Services  (BMWFS).  
Shes unhappy that the brakes  make  a squeaking/squealing noise  and that the issue has not 
been fixed.
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 19 July 2019. A copy of that provisional decision is attached here and 
forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold this complaint. I invited  
further comments from both parties, before I would reconsider the complaint again and issue 
my final decision.
Mrs B responded to the provisional decision and in summary said the car has been rarely 
used and has now only done 15,125 miles.  The number plate has already been  removed. 
She made a number  of calls to BMWFS on 8 May 2018 but didnt receive any response.  
I received no further comments from BMWFS.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  what Mrs B has 
recently said, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come  to the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision, for 
the same  reasons.
Im still persuaded  that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs B 
and in the absence of any proposed remedy that would rectify the issue  I think its 
reasonable that Mrs B be allowed to reject the car. 
I have considered what Mrs B as said about the current mileage of the car and that it has 
been rarely  used. As previously stated,  the mileage initially appeared to be broadly in line 
with expectations,  when considering the mileage limit stated on the hire purchase 
agreement. While I accept  the noise would  have been disappointing  and annoying  it didnt 
however prevent the car from being  used.  Having reconsidered my proposed  award to 
reflect the loss of use or loss of enjoyment  I still consider this to be fair. 
I thank Mrs B for confirming  the number plate has already been removed from the car. If re-
registering the car incurred a cost BMWFS should  reimburse that cost after Mrs B provides 
supporting evidence of the amount. 
Mrs B says she didnt receive  a response from BMWFS  in May 2018 and as Ive previously 
mentioned I think BMWFS  could have handled  things better. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct  BMW  Financial Services(GB) 
Limited T/A: Alphera Financial Services to:
Ref: DRN70358622reimburse the cost of re-registering the car after removing  the private number plate, 
subject to Mrs B providing supporting evidence;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Bs credit  file and mark the agreement 
as settled;
refund  the £30,000 deposit payment;
refund  the February and March 2018 hire purchase repayments in full;
refund  10% of all other  hire purchase  repayments; and
pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience.
Interest should be applied to the refunded amounts as set out above. Settlement  should be 
completed within 28 days of Mrs B accepting this final decision.  If settlement  is made  later 
than this interest, at the same rate as above,  should be added  to the £500 distress and 
inconvenience payment. 
Should BMWFS  deduct tax from the interest element of the award it should provide Mrs B 
with a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70358623provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B complains about  a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited  T/A: Alphera  Financial  Services (BMWFS).  Shes unhappy  that the brakes  make 
a squeaking/squealing noise and that the issue has not been fixed.
background
Mrs B took out the hire purchase  agreement in October 2017 for a car. The car was a 
prestige brand and model, around  6 months old and had travelled 8,100  miles. The cost of 
the car was £140,000, Mrs B paid a deposit of £30,000,  leaving £110,000  to be repaid 
through the hire purchase agreement.
The monthly  repayments of £1,332.14 were to be made over 36 months, followed  by an optional 
final payment  of £83,397.95. Under  the terms of the hire purchase agreement  Mrs B was allowed  to 
drive no more than 6,000 miles each year.
Mrs B says that she noticed  the noise immediately  after getting the car and raised this with the 
supplying dealership. After  some discussion, work was then done on the cars  brakes  and the brake 
pads and pins were replaced. Mrs B says the car has been returned on 4 occasions  and she was 
without the car on one occasion for around 7 weeks while work was being done. Mrs B says she 
was told this was a known fault and modified  brake pads were  being  designed to resolve  the issue.
Mrs B says that despite  the work, the noise still persists  and happens  most of the time,  on both long 
and short journeys.  She says shes had other prestige/performance cars, including a different model 
from the same manufacturer, and hasnt had brake problems before.
Unhappy the issue couldnt  be resolved Mrs B complained to BMWFS. The complaint was 
acknowledged and after 8 weeks Mrs B was told she could refer the complaint to our service  as it 
hadnt been resolved. Mrs B then referred her complaint  to us, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators.
As part of our investigation we arranged  through BMWFS to carry  out an inspection  of the car. The 
car was inspected in January 2019 and the report acknowledged there was a noise with the brakes. 
But it found  the likely cause of the noise was from the brakes glazing and this was likely caused by 
Mrs Bs driving style.  The investigator  explained  that because of this she didnt think BMWFS  should  
be required to do anything more.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators  conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having done  so, Im considering upholding  Mrs Bs 
complaint and Ive explained  here why Ive reached that conclusion.
In considering  what  is fair and reasonable,  I need to have regard  to the relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice  and (where 
appropriate) what I consider  to have been good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
Mrs Bs hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement  and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS  supplied the goods, i.e. the car, to Mrs B and its therefore 
Ref: DRN70358624responsible for a complaint  about the quality of the car. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of 
particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under a contract to supply goods,  there is an 
implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory . The CRA says the quality  of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable  person would consider  satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which  involves a car the other relevant circumstances would  likely include things 
like the age, mileage and price  at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car here was around 
6 months old and had travelled 8,100 miles. It was a performance, prestige car that cost £140,000. I 
think its reasonable  to expect a car of this age, mileage  and price to be free from defects for a 
considerable time and with a price  of £140,000 Mrs Bs expectations were  understandably high.
Looking at the evidence from the parties involved in this case there appears to be no dispute there is 
a squeaking/squealing noise coming from the brakes and that this happened very soon after Mrs B 
acquired the car. Mrs B has provided short videos  of the car and these appear to show the car is 
making a noise that wouldnt be expected. And, the independent report  from January 2019 also 
indicates the noise under braking is still present.  For the avoidance of any doubt, Im satisfied that 
there is a noise under  braking and that this was present at the time,  or immediately after Mrs B 
acquired the car.
The presence  of the noise however isnt, in isolation, evidence of a defect or fault. Nor does the 
noise alone allow me to make a finding on whether the car was or wasnt of satisfactory  quality. Cars 
clearly do make noises as they travel along  and its not unreasonable to expect certain  noises while 
driving. In this case the noise is a squeak/squeal  when  the brakes  are applied.
BMWFS didnt appear to have made a finding  in this case before it was referred  to our service. It 
was while the case was with our service that the inspection took place and it was the findings of the 
inspection that led to BMWFS explaining  it would  not accept Mrs Bs request  to reject the car.
The independent inspection report finds the likely cause of the noise is the way Mrs B drives  the car. 
The report refers to Mrs B telling the inspector "we use the vehicle for a short journey like the school  
run The inspector  finds  that because  of the short journeys the car doesnt allow  the brakes to 
reach optimum heat which is likely to cause friction surface  glazing Heat is a generated 
under braking through the friction caused by the brake pads rubbing  against the brake discs. Too 
much, or heavy, braking can cause excessive  heat and this can lead to brake fade, where  the 
effectiveness of braking  is reduced.  Excessive  heat can also cause glazing,  which can also impact 
on the performance of the brakes, and/or  cause a squeak/squeal like Mrs B has.
As the inspector indicates,  too little braking over short journeys  doesnt allow  the brakes to reach 
optimum temperature. And high amounts  of light braking over long periods  might also impact on 
brake performance. Both of these types of scenario  might also cause  the brakes  to glaze, which 
again might  cause a squeak/squeal.
Although Mrs Bs car is a performance car Ive not seen anything that indicates she had anything  
other than normal road brake  pads and discs (such as ceramic brakes).  Albeit a prestige brand, 
its reasonable  to assume the brakes should therefore perform in a similar way to most  road cars 
as the car will experience the same conditions as most other road users.
At the time of the inspection Mrs Bs car had travelled 14,718  miles, which was 6,618  miles more 
than the 8,100 already  travelled when she acquired it. By the time of the inspection Mrs B had had 
the car for around 447 days, or 14 months. This is below average mileage but appears to be in line 
with what Mrs B had expected, as the hire purchase agreement had a mileage  limit of 6,000  each 
year. Although below average, I dont consider it to be particularly low. On average it equates to 
around 472 miles  each  month, or 15 miles  each day.
Ref: DRN70358625Having considered  the inspectors comments, it appears hes placed  considerable weight  on Mr or 
Mrs Bs statement about using the car for short journeys to school. But looking at the mileage of the 
car it doesnt appear that the car has merely been used for short  journeys to school. If that was the 
case Id expect the car to have travelled considerably less than the 6,618 miles between it being 
supplied and the inspection. Even if the car was used solely for school journeys that would be at 
least 5 miles to school, 5 miles  back, twice a day after allowing for school holidays over the 14 
months.
Mrs B will not be alone in taking her child/children to school by car and this is common throughout  
the country every day of the school year. And I think that the vast majority  of those  parents will do so 
without experiencing squeaking/squealing brakes. If short trips, to school or elsewhere, were  the 
likely contributor to brake noise I think noisy brakes would be much more common.
I also think its worth noting that Mrs B says that the car is not used solely for school journeys and the 
noise is apparent on short  and long journeys. She also says the noise is apparent  when the brakes  
have warmed up. Considering the mileage  of the car this appears to support what Mrs B has said 
and I think the car was likely  used more than just for school journeys. Although I have given careful  
consideration to the inspection report,  Im not in agreement with the inspector that Mrs Bs usage or 
driving style is the likely  cause of the squeak/squeal  from the brakes.
To further  support my view, I think its worth noting that the car has been back  for repairs several 
times and I understand the front and rear brakes have  been replaced  at least once.  Mrs B says the 
car was in for repairs on one occasion for around 7 weeks. Had it simply been a case of Mrs Bs 
driving being  the cause of the noise I think that should have been apparent when the car was in for 
repairs with the manufacturers mechanics. There would  also have been little point changing  the 
brakes if Mrs B was the cause of the problem.
Having considered  all thats been submitted in this case Im not persuaded that Mrs Bs driving  style 
is unusual or different to the vast majority  of other drivers who take their children to school by car. 
The vast majority of other  drivers are able to use their cars without  the additional  squeak/squeal  while 
braking. And, like Mrs B the cars are generally used for additional journeys,  long or short, over and 
above the school run.
I also havent seen anything  to indicate that Mrs B was required to drive  the car in a different way 
because of the car being  an expensive,  performance model. Even if there was a requirement to drive 
the car differently,  Id expect  that to be pointed out to Mrs B before acquiring the car so she could 
ensure it still met with her requirements. I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs B was told there was 
a need to drive differently  so have therefore assumed  the car should  be driven in the same way as 
any other normal  car.
On balance, Im not persuaded Mrs B has caused the squeak/squeal while braking and as it wasnt 
caused by user error, I think  its more likely than not there is a fault or a defect with the brakes  which 
is causing noise. I cant be sure exactly what is causing the noise but I dont think  thats necessary 
to determine it is a fault.  Its reasonable to expect brakes to work the vast majority of the time 
without any additional  noise and it seems clear thats not the case here.
Im satisfied there is a defect or fault with the brakes and that has been the case from when
Mrs B acquired the car. Considering the car was only around 6 months old and had travelled
8,100 miles, and it cost £140,000,  I think a reasonable person  would not expect to have 
squeaking/squealing brakes. Because of this, I think  the car was not of satisfactory  quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs B.
The CRA sets out the remedies available where goods are considered  not to be of satisfactory 
quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the goods.  Repairs have already 
been attempted in this case and theyve  failed  to resolve  the issue. There is a suggestion that a 
different type/compound  brake  pad is being prepared but I havent seen  anything  to indicate a 
remedy is now available. As there appears to be no fix available to prevent the brake noise I think 
Ref: DRN70358626its unreasonable  to expect Mrs B to continue to drive the car with the added  squeaking/squealing 
brakes. BMWFS  should therefore arrange for Mrs B to reject the car and for the hire purchase 
agreement to be cancelled with nothing further owed.
Mrs B should receive a refund of the £30,000 deposit payment she made  at the outset and any 
adverse information, such as late, missed etc. markers, on her credit file should  be removed. The 
credit file should be marked  as settled  in full, or something similar, and should not show as voluntary 
termination.
Mrs B has been able to use the car and it does  appear  that its been used broadly in line with the 
original expectations, considering the 6,000 mile annual mileage limit on the hire purchase 
agreement. But, driving the car with squeaking/squealing  brakes is likely to have been somewhat 
annoying to Mrs B and would have reduced the enjoyment she would have  had while driving the car. 
This is arguably made worse  considering the prestige brand and the greater expectation around 
luxury considering the brand model and price of the car.
Its difficult to quantify the impact on Mrs B having had to drive the car with this issue but having 
considered the circumstances here I think that Mrs B should be entitled to 10% of the hire purchase 
repayments shes  made to BMWFS. BMWFS should  therefore refund 10% of the repayments Mrs B 
has made, except for 2 of the months. Mrs B says the car was with the garage for around 7 weeks on 
one occasion, plus several other  occasions.  This amounts to approximately 2 months loss of use and 
I think it unreasonable for Mrs B to pay for use that she hasnt had from the car. BMWFS should  
therefore refund the equivalent of 2 months repayments to the hire purchase agreement, in addition 
to the 10% for the remaining  months.
BMWFS should also add interest to the refunded amounts from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement. For the two full months that need to be refunded BMWFS  should  assume these 
were February and March  2018,  which is I understand around the time the car spent some time in the 
garage. Interest should be calculated  at 8% simple per year. If either  party  considers February  and 
March 2018 doesnt  reflect  a period when the car was in the garage I would ask them to clarify this 
when responding to my provisional decision.
I also understand that Mrs B has a private number  plate that she is likely to want to keep. If thats 
the case, BMWFS should  ensure Mrs B is given  sufficient opportunity to arrange for the number 
plate to be removed  from the car.
Finally, I note that Mrs B complained to BMWFS in April 2018 and it didnt  issue a final response 
on the complaint until 14 January 2019. This is a significant amount of time after Mrs B raised her 
complaint and a considerable time after the complaint  was referred to our service. Ive seen little to 
show what, if any, investigation BMWFS actually did in this case prior to the independent  
inspection report being completed  in January 2019.
I think that being supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality, which resulted in multiple 
trips to the garage  has caused Mrs B some  distress and inconvenience.  I also think  that the way in 
which BMWFS handled Mrs Bs complaint has also compounded this. In addition to the above, I 
think BMWFS  should pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further representations  by Mrs B or BMWFS I uphold  this complaint and require  
BMWFS to:
allow  Mrs B to remove/replace the private number  plate if necessary;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
Ref: DRN70358627remove any adverse  information from Mrs Bs credit file and mark the agreement as 
settled;
refund the £30,000  deposit payment;
refund the February and March 2018  hire purchase repayments in full;
refund 10% of all other hire purchase repayments; and
pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience.
Interest should be applied to the refunded amounts as set out above.
I now invite any further comments from Mrs B and BMWFS before 2 August 2019,  after which time Ill 
reconsider the complaint and issue my final decision.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7035862