K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited recorded a matter  in relation 
to his motor insurance  policy. 
background
In June 2017, Mr H was involved in an accident  that wasnt his fault. He notified  Admiral of 
the accident. The other drivers insurers dealt with his claim. 
In November 2017, Mr H took out a new policy with another insurer. He disclosed the 
non-fault accident. Shortly after the start date of the new policy,  Mr Hs new insurer said that 
there was an open claim dated June 2017 on the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. That meant that his new insurer charged  Mr H a higher premium.  
In December 2017, Admiral sent Mr H a letter in which it confirmed that there  wasnt an open  
claim. Mr Hs new insurer  accepted that and noted  that the claim was now recorded as 
closed. So, it gave  Mr H the lower premium but it wouldnt refund the extra premium  hed 
already paid.  
Mr H wants Admiral to compensate him for the additional premium  of £86.35 charged by his 
new insurer. He says he was only charged  that amount because  Admiral didnt record  
accurate information  on CUE.
Our investigator thought that Admiral  should  pay Mr H £86.35  for his inconvenience. He said 
that hed seen a copy of a screenshot from CUE,  which Mr Hs new insurer  had given to him. 
It showed that there was an open claim. 
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It said that theres more than one database that 
feeds into CUE. It said that it wasnt responsible for the information not being filtered 
through the other  databases,  or for the databases  other insurers  use. 
Our investigator said that its Admirals responsibility  to ensure that the information on CUE 
is accurate; Mr H has provided information  to show that it wasnt. The investigator  said that 
Admiral hasnt demonstrated that the information on CUE  was correct at the time Mr H took 
out his new policy.  He looked at compensation in a different way and said that Admiral  
should pay Mr H £100 in relation to his inconvenience. 
Mr H agreed with the investigator but thought that the compensation was too low. 
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It said that there are five databases that feed into 
CUE and its nominated supplier wont permit it to share  screenshots  with this service. 
Admiral said that on 16 June 2017, it uploaded the following to its supplier:
Basis for Finalisation: Notification only claimNo payments/claim.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70869552Where things are not clear, or in dispute,  I make  my findings on what  I think  is most  likely to 
be the case. I take into account the evidence thats  available to me and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
One of the terms  of Mr Hs policy provides that Admiral  will pass  information about incidents  
to certain registers. It has a duty to do so accurately. 
I think that the screenshot Mr H has provided shows that inaccurate information  was 
recorded about the June  2017 incident.  The screenshot  shows that, as at November 2017, 
the claim status was open.  
Admiral says it isnt responsible for that. But it hasnt been able to provide us with a 
screenshot of the information it sent to its supplier or the information its supplier recorded 
about the June 2017 incident. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely than not that 
Admiral is responsible for the inaccurate information  about  the June 2017  incident. 
Admiral says that there are five databases  that feed into CUE. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the mistake was made by another database or Mr Hs new insurer. I think its 
speculation on Admirals  part that an error was made when other  database providers 
handled the information. Ive seen nothing to show that was the case. 
Admiral refers to its notes, which show that on 16 June  2017, it recorded that the claim was 
settled as notification  only. But its notes dont show me what it reported externally or how its 
supplier recorded  the information. 
Considering everything, I think that Admiral  made  an error in that the accident in June  2017  
was shown as an open claim in November  2017.  
Mr Hs new insurer  refused to refund the higher premium hed paid. So, Mr H is out of 
pocket. Mr H may wish to complain about  that to his new insurer. 
Admirals error caused Mr H some inconvenience. He says that hes spent considerable time 
gathering evidence so that Admiral could put matters right. Admirals final response to Mr H 
seemed to disregard evidence hed provided and included explanations  that werent relevant 
to the issues Mr H had raised. That was no doubt  frustrating. Mr H has referred  to Admirals 
profits but we dont base our awards  for inconvenience on a business profits.  Considering 
everything, I think fair compensation for Mr Hs inconvenience is £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I now 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr H compensation of £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7086955