K820x#14complaint
Mrs M, as executor  of the estate of Mrs B, complains that Santander  UK plc allowed Mrs Ms 
sister to transfer an account in Mrs Bs name  to her own. She also complains that as a result 
Santander required her to obtain a Certificate of Confirmation.
background
Mrs M is the executor of the estate  of Mrs B and says that Santander allowed her sister to 
transfer one of Mrs Bs accounts into her own name without the correct documents. Mrs M 
says as a result Santander then required a Certificate of Confirmation before it would allow  
Mrs Bs other accounts to be closed. Mrs M says that shes  had to pay legal fees and the 
cost of obtaining the Certificate of Confirmation which she estimates to be over £250.
Santander says it needed the Certificate  of Confirmation, as it was told by Mrs M there was a 
dispute between  her and her sister.  It says it needed  to confirm which party  was executor. 
Santander has accepted making  mistakes in how it dealt with Mrs M and not explaining why 
it was taking the actions it did. Santander has offered Mrs M £250 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience. Santander  says Mrs Ms sister provided  the correct  
documentation and signed an indemnity form stating she was an executor of the estate  
before it removed Mrs B from the account held in trust.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and initially our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought  the account held in trust was not part of the estate. She also thought 
that Santander could have dealt  with Mrs M is a better manner but thought  the offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. The investigator explained that we could not award  
compensation to Mrs M in any event for her distress and inconvenience  and could only make 
an award to an estate for any loss it incurred.
Mrs M didnt  accept that view and said that if the money held in trust was not part of Mrs Bs 
estate then why did Santander insist on her sister  signing a document,  which  she says was 
fraud on her sister part. Mrs M also questions why a Certificate of Confirmation was then 
required and that she shouldnt have to pay for it.
The investigator reconsidered her view and thought that Santander should pay for the cost of 
the Certificate of Confirmation and 8% interest. The investigator said that Mrs Ms sister 
shouldnt have been able to provide documents that confirmed her as an executor.
Santander says it was given the correct evidence by Mrs Ms sister and says the money in 
that account didnt belong  to the estate.
I asked Mrs M for further information. In summary I said it appeared a Certificate of 
Confirmation would have  been needed in any event  due to the size of the estate. I also 
wanted to know  what happened to the money in the account held in trust.  And I asked for 
evidence of the costs in obtaining the Certificate  of Confirmation in any event as it appears 
that for a small estate (which this is) there  is no cost for obtaining it.
Mrs M says other banks dealt with her without a Certificate of Confirmation with just the will 
and says she doesnt have details of the cost yet or her legal costs.
Ref: DRN72532872my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case and I came to the provisional view that Santander 
is not responsible  for the costs in obtaining the Certificate of Confirmation.
I said I was satisfied that Mrs Ms sister attended a Santander branch with sufficient 
documents to persuade Santander that she was entitled to request  that Mrs B be removed  
from an account held in trust for which Mrs B was a trustee. I thought there was no real 
dispute that an account held in trust in this way didnt form part of Mrs Bs estate and that 
she could no longer continue as a trustee following her passing  away. I could see that Mrs M 
described her sisters actions as fraudulent and that she had no right to do so. So I didnt 
think Santander made a mistake here and correctly  followed its procedures and asked for 
the relevant documents  from Mrs Ms sister.  I also didnt think Mrs Ms sister was attempting  
to gain access to the money that belonged to the estate of Mrs B.
I could see that following  this, Mrs M told Santander  that there was a dispute  between her 
and her sister. And in those circumstances  I didnt think  Santander  had any choice but to 
insist on a Certificate of Confirmation  be obtained,  so that it acted on instructions from the 
correct person. I appreciated that the estate  may have incurred costs in obtaining it, although 
I had not seen any evidence of that cost. But I said I couldnt fairly order that Santander  pay 
for any cost as I thought the need for the Certificate  of Confirmation was due to the concerns 
Mrs M raised about her sisters actions.
The investigator explained that we cant in these circumstances award any compensation to 
Mrs M for any distress she was caused,  but could  only make an award  to the estate of Mrs 
B. So I said I would  leave it to Mrs M if she wished  to accept  Santanders offer of £250 
compensation, if it had not been previously  paid.
Overall I didnt think Santander made a mistake in allowing  Mrs Ms sister to be added to the 
account in place of Mrs B. I thought  that led to Mrs M telling Santander about the dispute 
which I dont think it could  have  been aware  of. And that led to the request for the Certificate 
of Confirmation.
Santander has said it doesnt wish to add anything further.
Mrs M doesnt  accept my provisional  view and in summary she says I should consider letters 
Santander sent to her that say it was prepared to close the accounts. She also says 
Santander should be accountable for what happened and that she shouldnt pay for flaws in 
its systems as it knew about  her sisters fraud.
Ref: DRN72532873my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as I did in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied that the letters  Mrs M has asked me to look at do not change  my mind  and may 
show that Santander was prepared to close the accounts. But Im satisfied for the reasons 
Ive explained  that Santander  had no alternative  but to insist  of the Certificate of 
Confirmation when faced  with the circumstances of a dispute between Mrs M and he sister. I 
appreciate that the estate of Mrs B may have  incurred the cost of that although I have not 
seen any evidence of cost. But I cant fairly  hold Santander responsible for that for the 
reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before  23 October 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7253287