K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has declined a claim she made  on her travel  insurance policy.  
background
Mrs M was on holiday  with her mum and sister. They were due to travel  from Dubai to Spain 
together. In Dubai Mrs M told us that her mum wasnt  well and experienced heat stroke 
and/or acute gastroenteritis.  She says that her mum wasnt well enough to travel on to Spain 
so they decided to return to the UK. And, she says her sister suffered a flare up of 
fibromyalgia due to their mothers illness. Mrs M says that she was told to pay for the 
additional costs  and claim them back.  
In the final response  letter  Mapfre says it didnt  authorise the return  to the UK and other 
associated expenses. So its declined the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said there wasnt enough  evidence  to 
substantiate the claim and referred to the claim form which said Mrs M was claiming for 
sciatica. 
Mrs Ms representative responded to say that this was the only option she could enter and 
she was only claiming because her mum had been too unwell to continue the journey and 
they needed to get home. So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  
The policy terms and conditions say:
We must  agree for you to return to your home area (or your final country  of a one-
way trip) under section  B (Medical and other expenses) or Section A (Cancelling  and 
cutting short your holiday). If we do not agree, we will not provide  cover and we may 
reduce the amount we pay you to return to your home area (or the final country  of a 
one-way trip). 
And: 
You must get our permission if you have  to cut your holiday  short and return  early  to 
your home area (or your final country  if you are on a one-way trip) for an insured 
reason. If you are unable  to contact us for permission you must get a doctors  
certificate in resort confirming the medical necessity  for you to return home earlier  
than planned.   
Under the policy terms a trip can be cut short if the policyholder, a relative, or a person  the 
policyholder is travelling with becomes seriously  ill. A trip cannot be cut short because the 
policyholder doesnt want to travel. 
Ref: DRN70552722Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint because: 
Mrs Ms mum became unwell whilst on holiday in Dubai.  The policy terms say that in 
order to return to the UK early  Mrs M needed authorisation from Mapfre 
Mrs M didnt do that. She booked  her flights and without discussing her plans with 
Mapfre. They didnt  have the opportunity to tell Mrs M that they didnt agree to this. 
So its not unreasonable for them to decline the claim  because Mrs M hadnt  notified 
them as required by the terms and conditions
The claim form said that Mrs M was claiming  for sciatica. I appreciate that Mrs M 
says that this was all she could enter. But Ive not seen  any evidence  to support this. 
And it was open to her to contact Mapfre  rather than submitting a claim she knew  
contained information which she accepts wasnt right
As Mrs M provided that information it wasnt unreasonable for Mapfre to assess  the 
claim on the basis of the information provided,  which was that Mrs M came  home  
early because  of sciatica  
Mrs Ms mum had experienced  heat stroke  and/or gastroenteritis.  But the medical  
report from the time doesnt  clearly explain why it was medically necessary for her to 
cut short  her trip or say she needed  someone  to stay with her 
The evidence from the consultant  in relation  to Mrs Ms sister explains that she has 
fibromyalgia and it isnt beyond the bounds of possibility that she had a flare up on 
holiday. The letter is dated  approximately a year after Mrs Ms holiday to Dubai. So it 
hasnt changed  my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7055272