K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  at the service Nationwide Building  Society provided to him when opening  a 
saving account.  Hes also unhappy with their decision  to close his accounts.
background
Mr T opened a saving account  in early August 2017 with a balance of £250.  A couple of 
days later,  he went into the branch to close the account. The next day, Mr T attempted  to 
open the same saving  account again using  his online banking but was unsuccessful.  
Nationwide think its likely  because the system  hadnt updated  in time.
The next working day (two days after the unsuccessful attempt) Mr T was successful in 
opening in the account. While Mr T was happy  the account had been  opened,  he wanted the 
start date of the account to be 12 August 2017. Nationwide  submitted a request to change  
the start date of the account but learned it wasnt possible  once the account  had been  
opened.
Nationwide offered Mr T the difference in interest for the two days  which was around 6p. And 
they reassured him that hed be eligible to receive  the benefits of the account for a full 12 
months. But Mr T wasnt happy, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide upheld Mr Ts complaint. They recognised Mr T had been offered the difference 
in interest, but felt more compensation was warranted. They paid him £25 compensation to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused in opening the account and the way they 
handled things.  In their response they also advised Mr T that due to the amount of 
complaints hed made, they felt the relationship between  him and the bank had broken 
down. And they gave  him 2 months  notice that theyd be closing his accounts.
The investigator who reviewed Mr Ts complaint didnt  comment on the issue  surrounding 
the opening of the savings account  she only considered the account closure.  She wasnt  
satisfied Nationwide  had acted in line with the terms of the account. And thats because they 
couldnt provide  the original terms from when Mr T opened his accounts.  The investigator 
thought Nationwide should  pay Mr T £200  compensation.
Mr T accepted the investigators view. But Nationwide disagreed. In particular they said that 
the closure notice  was given in line with the most  recent terms and conditions  applicable to 
the accounts.
In February 2019,  I issued  a provisional decision. In it, I said;
the compensation linked  to the opening  of the savings  account
Nationwide havent  been able to explain  why when Mr T attempted to open his savings 
account online, he wasnt able to. They think its likely because hed only closed the account  
the day before,  the system hadnt  updated.  Nonetheless, Im satisfied Mr T should have 
been able to open his account on the day he wanted.
Where the building society has made an error,  wed expect them to put the customer  back in 
the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. Ive thought about what 
Nationwide offered to try and put things  right for Mr T. Ive seen they paid Mr T the difference  
he would  have accrued in interest for the two days  the account wasnt  open  and I consider 
Ref: DRN76650112thats reasonable. I say that because  if Mr T was able to open  the account  on the day he 
attempted to, he would have benefited from this extra interest.  So Im pleased to see 
Nationwide put Mr T back in the position  he would have been, had he been  able to open his 
account on that day.
I havent seen  any further financial loss which Mr T suffered as a result of the account not 
opening on that day, and therefore I dont think Nationwide should pay him any more  in this 
respect.
Ive then considered  the compensation Nationwide offered Mr T for the way they dealt  with 
his complaint. Mr T was unhappy that he had to make separate  trips to the branch to try and 
resolve the issue, when  he should  have been able to open the account online.  And hes 
unhappy Nationwide didnt call him to discuss the complaint, as well as the time it took them  
to respond to his complaint.
I appreciate Mr T having to make extra trips to the branch to open  the savings account would 
have been inconvenient for him  especially because  he tried to open the account online. 
And Nationwide have confirmed they think its because  their system didnt update that Mr T 
wasnt able to open the account online.  So I think its right he is compensated for this 
inconvenience.
Mr T wanted Nationwide to call him to discuss the complaint  but the complaint handler  
didnt think it was necessary. While I cant comment on Mr Ts particular feelings about this, 
Ive considered whether I think Nationwide did anything wrong by not calling Mr T. And I 
dont think they did. I say that because its for Nationwide to decide how they deal with 
complaints, and each  building  society has their own complaints procedure.  There are certain 
obligations a building  society has to adhere to when dealing with complaints  such as the 
overall response time and giving referral rights  to our service  depending on the type of 
complaint. But its up to the building society itself to decide how to communicate with their 
customers. 
I understand why Mr T would have preferred to speak to somebody on the telephone, but 
Nationwide did still respond to his complaint  albeit in writing. There isnt anything in 
Nationwides complaint procedure that states  they will call all their customers with a 
response to their complaints. And therefore, I cant fairly say they did anything  wrong.
Ive also considered the time Nationwide took to deal with Mr Ts complaint. And Im satisfied 
they responded in an appropriate  time (within the 8-week period theyre entitled to). 
Overall, I consider the £25 compensation Nationwide  offered  for the overall handling of the 
complaint to be sufficient  in the circumstances. Im satisfied  this recognises the extra  trip 
Mr T had to make to the Nationwide branch and while Im satisfied they didnt do anything, I 
think theyve fairly  recognised the expectations  Mr T had about how Nationwide would 
handle his complaint which they didnt do. So its unlikely Ill be asking Nationwide to pay 
anything more.
the closure of the account
A building  society  is entitled  to close  an account with a customer  just as a customer  may 
close an account with them.  But before they close an account, they must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms  and conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN76650113The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Nationwide and Mr T had to comply 
with  say that Nationwide could  close the account  by giving Mr T at least two months  
notice. Nationwide  have  done this  so they were  entitled to close the accounts in the way 
they did.
I appreciate some of Mr Ts accounts opened a long time ago, and therefore the terms and 
conditions of the account may have changed.  Ive considered whether Nationwide were 
entitled to change the terms of the account  and Im satisfied they were. One reason 
Nationwide are able to change the terms, charges or interest rates of accounts is to ensure 
their terms  are consistent with the products they offer new members, or what the banking 
industry or their competitors offer. Whenever a change  is made to terms, the new terms 
supersede previous versions. 
Ive thought about whether I think Nationwides terms  are fair  and Ive thought about what 
is seen as good industry practice. In some  circumstances, banks and building societies can 
choose to close  a customers account  immediately.  Other times, they generally give either 
60 days or two months notice. Therefore, I dont consider Nationwides  terms are unfair as 
theyre in line with that of other  banks  and building societies.
So I didnt think Nationwide needed to pay Mr T any compensation because they closed the 
account fairly with two months notice  which theyre entitled  to do.
Nationwide didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr T responded and said he didnt 
agree  but he didnt provide any additional evidence or further  information  to explain why he 
disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or comments, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.  
Overall, I consider the £25 compensation Nationwide  offered  for the overall handling of 
Mr Ts complaint to be sufficient in the circumstances.  And I dont require them  to do 
anything in regards  to the closure of Mr Ts account  as Im satisfied they closed it fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7665011