K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with B&B in 1988. At the same time they bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve covered the repayments on their mortgage for up to 24 months at a 
time if Mr B  whom  the policy covered  couldnt  work due to redundancy. If Mr B was too ill 
to work the policy wouldve paid out until he was able to return  to work. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were led to believe they had to take the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, so their case has been passed  to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs B dont  suggest that they didnt agree to take the PPI. And B&B has been able to 
provide a copy of their mortgage application  form where Mr and Mrs B agreed to take the 
PPI. But Mr and Mrs B say they were  told they had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage.
I havent seen  anything to suggest this was the case. The mortgage application form doesnt 
suggest any connection between acceptance  for the loan and buying  PPI. B&B did 
sometimes offer preferential interest rates to those who chose to  buy  PPI. I dont  know 
whether this applied in Mr and Mrs Bs case,  but if it did and Mr and Mrs B hadnt wanted to 
buy PPI they could have chosen  a different mortgage product. 
So, on balance, I think Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it. 
Mr and Mrs B say B&B advised them to buy the policy. I havent seen anything  to suggest Mr 
and Mrs B were given any personal  advice from B&B, and B&B explain that they didnt 
recommend PPI to consumers. So I dont think B&B were  obliged to take steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. But even if B&B did advise Mr and Mrs B to take 
the policy, I think such a recommendation  wouldve been suitable. I say this because:
Mr B, whom  the policy  covered, was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been 
affected by any terms which mightve  made it more difficult  for him to make a 
successful claim,  such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment;
Mr B had some sick pay entitlement from his employer. But the policy  wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and for as long as he was off sick;
Mr B was probably entitled  to statutory redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs B say they also 
had some savings they couldve used if Mr B was out of work, although this is not 
reflected in their mortgage application at the time. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
Ref: DRN70519552addition to this, and for up to 24 months  at a time, leaving any other  funds they had 
to cover other uninsured expenses. So I think the PPI offered them  a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. And it was flexible because it couldve been cancelled  at any time without 
a financial penalty.
Its possible Mr and Mrs B werent given all the details they ideally shouldve  received about 
the policy. But I dont  think more, or better, information wouldve made a difference to their 
decision to buy the PPI, because it was suitable for them in the way Ive described. 
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of anything B&B mightve  done  wrong.   
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint so it follows that Bradford and Bingley  Plc dont 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051955