K820x#14complaint
N, a limited company,  complains about the way its secured loan accounts and overdraft 
facility have been handled by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
Mrs N, one of the company directors, is dealing with the complaint on Ns behalf.  Her main 
concerns are, in summary, that:
NatWest unreasonably declined Ns request for a capital  repayment  holiday on the 
secured lending, while also reducing the limit on its overdraft facility;
NatWest failed to respond to request  for information about the accounts including  a 
request for title deeds,  which led to N missing  out on business opportunities; and
Since management of its accounts has transferred to a more  distant location, N 
hasnt received a good level of service from the nominated relationship manager.
background
NatWest transferred management of Ns accounts to a centrally-managed specialist 
department in 2012. So from then on, N no longer had access to a local relationship  
manager as it had done previously.
Following a review of Ns accounts in September 2016, NatWest  decided it wasnt willing  to 
maintain the existing £40,000 borrowing on its overdraft facility. It asked N for further 
information, including its year-end accounts for 2015  and 2016, to assess the possible 
options. If this wasnt  received by the end of November, it said it could start reducing the limit 
by £2,000 a month from January 2017.
NatWest then began reducing Ns overdraft limit in 2017. In July, and with the limit now down 
to £28,000, Mrs N asked  NatWest to stop and reinstate it to at least £30,000. NatWest 
declined, on the basis that it hadnt received  the information requested in September  2016. 
But it said if that was provided, it would reassess things. It did however suspend  the limit 
reduction the following month,  on the basis that N had instructed a new accountant with a 
view to providing the necessary information. 
In November 2017, Mrs N asked NatWest to allow N a capital repayment holiday on its 
secured loans for the payments due in that and the following month.  But this was declined 
too. The bank  said that to assess  this request, it would  need the same information about Ns 
finances that was still outstanding.
That prompted Mrs N to raise a complaint. She was concerned that the payment holiday 
wouldnt be in place  in time. More widely, she pointed to several  issues stemming  back to 
the change in relationship  manager.  She was unhappy that Ns overdraft facility had been 
cut so drastically and that ultimately it could  be removed altogether. She also said that N had 
missed out on business opportunities due to delays in NatWest  responding to requests for 
redemption figures  and for deeds  to be sent to its solicitors. 
Ref: DRN71591132NatWest sent Mrs N its final response  letter in December 2017.  It said it couldnt assess the 
payment holiday  request  without Ns accounts  as requested, which had also led to it 
reducing the overdraft  limit. But in the absence  of a payment holiday, it said it shouldve  
considered reducing  the payments it was collecting instead (given that N was actually paying 
more than the minimum monthly  payment). It also apologised for failing to correctly  address 
Mrs Ns requests for redemption quotations and title deeds. So to put things right, it offered 
compensation of £500.
Mrs N didnt accept the banks offer. She referred Ns complaint to us and it was reviewed by 
one of our investigators. He didnt think that NatWest had done anything wrong in requesting  
the information it had and, when  this wasnt received, reducing Ns overdraft and declining 
the payment holiday request. NatWest was still willing to reconsider things on receipt of the 
information and he thought that was reasonable. And for the accepted delays in dealing with 
Ns requests, he thought  £500 was fair compensation.
Mrs N didnt accept our investigators view. She thought too much  weight was being placed  
on the failure to provide the information  NatWest had requested.  While Mrs N said that a 
payment holiday  was no longer needed  shed used her personal  pension to tide them  over 
 she wanted  the accounts to be moved  back to a local relationship manager. And she 
stressed that N had missed out on valuable business opportunities due to NatWests errors. 
She also said that she was still waiting for confirmation of the amounts paid and owed in 
respect of the secured loans.
With no resolution, Ns complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  last month. I explained  that while I agreed that 
some things had gone  wrong, NatWests offer represented a fair way to put things right.  
On NatWests decision to reduce  Ns overdraft limit, I said:
NatWest has explained  its reasons  for reviewing the account and the level of 
borrowing given to N. I think that course of action was reasonable in light of those 
circumstances. The terms and conditions  of the account allow the bank to review the 
facility  in fact they say it will be reviewed  at least once  a year  and to reduce it.
NatWest didnt immediately reduce  Ns overdraft  limit. It asked N for certain 
information about its financial position, so that it could discuss  the up-to-date position 
and alternative options  for the borrowing. Its letter to N of 6 September  2016  listed the 
required information. On receipt of that information  it would review things again. But if 
that information wasnt received by 30 November 2016, it may look to reduce the 
overdraft limit by £2,000  from January  2017.
I dont think NatWests request for information  was unreasonable. In order to be able to 
consider what options it could  offer to support N (be that leaving things as they were or 
restructuring the borrowing), it needed  to assess Ns financial situation.  The 
information it requested   such  as the last two years of Ns accounts   would be 
appropriate components of such  a review and wouldnt have been onerous for N to 
provide.
Ref: DRN71591133NatWest didnt receive the information it requested. It sent a reminder  of what  was 
outstanding to N on 23 November 2016  which also set out the possible next steps. 
As NatWest didnt receive the requested information, it proceeded to reduce Ns 
overdraft limit by £2,000  a month  from January 2017. In light of the above, I dont think  
that was unreasonable. I know Mrs N was concerned to see that the overdraft was 
being gradually reduced to zero. But the bank had offered to look at alternative options  
with N, and unless  and until it had the information  it asked for, I dont think it could 
make an informed decision as to what these might  be. So I dont  think  this was 
unreasonable.
I understand from what Mrs N says that there  were  issues  between N and its 
accountant and that they may have  contributed  to the inability to provide the necessary 
information to NatWest. Its regrettable if N was let down by a trusted  third party,  but I 
cant see that NatWest ought  to have been aware  of these issues  at the time.  When it 
was on notice that N was switching accountants  in summer 2017  meaning that the 
necessary information  might be forthcoming   it suspended further reductions until 
December 2017  to give N more time. That seems reasonable in the circumstances.  
Nothing after December  2017 is covered by the scope of this complaint, so I cant  
consider anything that happened from this time onwards.
On NatWests response to Ns request for a payment holiday, I said:
N asked NatWest for a capital repayment holiday on its two loans in November 2017. It 
wanted a two-month break from paying  the full amount due, raising  concerns about  
falling into default.  Its worth noting here that the nature  of Ns business is seasonal,  
and so turnover  might well be expected  to drop at that time of year.
NatWest declined Ns request. It said it needed the information requested in respect of 
the overdraft review to assess this request  too.
From what  Ive seen so far, I dont think NatWest acted fairly here. While it may have 
needed some information  from N to consider  the payment holiday request, I dont think  
it was necessary to require the extensive  information it had asked for as part of the 
ongoing review.  N was concerned about  the possibility of defaulting on its secured 
loan commitments   putting its business at risk, given the security was its premises  
and wanted a temporary, short-term measure to help.
Its hard for me to say whether NatWest  wouldve  granted the request  had it properly 
considered it, as I think it shouldve done. But at the very least, I think it couldve 
allowed some  sort of reduced payment for the two months as N requested.  I say this 
for the reasons NatWest  identified  in its final response letter   that as N had already 
been paying more than the contractual monthly  payment required on its loans, an 
obvious option wouldve been to at least revert to that lower amount for a period of 
time to give N the breathing space it sought   if not allowing interest  only payments 
altogether.
Ref: DRN71591134I note that NatWest changed  its stance on this after the complaint was referred to us. It 
says N agreed to a rescheduling  of payments   such that it was overpaying in order  
to settle one of the loans earlier than was originally  agreed. I can see that N did agree 
to that rescheduling in summer  2016. But that seems  to have been a mutually 
accepted resolution  in response to concerns over the banks administration  of the 
account. It remains the case that the monthly payments due under the original 
agreement were lower than those that N had been  paying. In light of this and what  Ive 
said about Ns circumstances  above, I think it wouldve  been  reasonable for the bank 
to show some flexibility here and use its discretion to allow (or at least  consider) a 
reduced payment  in the short term.
This meant that N was put to some trouble in seeking alternative assistance  during a 
period of difficulty. Mrs N has advised  that in the end, she used funds from her own 
personal pension  to tide N over. While I cant compensate Mrs N in her personal 
capacity for any impact  financial  or otherwise  that this might have had on her, I 
have borne in mind  the inconvenience  caused to N in this respect.
On NatWests response to Ns request for information, I said:
Mrs N is unhappy that NatWest didnt deal promptly with requests for redemption  
figures and title deeds made in 2017.  She says this caused N to miss out on good 
business opportunities.
NatWest accepts that it ought to have dealt with these  requests better. Limited  
information is available as to exactly what caused  the delays. But the bank accepts  
that it ought to have  been able to respond to both requests more  quickly than it did. 
From what  Mrs N and NatWest have provided,  I understand  it took around two months  
for a redemption quotation  to be provided and over three months  for the deeds  to be 
provided to Ns solicitors. During  that time, I can see Mrs N was having to chase up the 
bank (albeit within correspondence on other ongoing  matters).
So I think NatWest made  errors  here too and that this put N to some further 
inconvenience as a result.
Mrs N argues that this also led N to miss out on potentially lucrative  business  
opportunities. But shes not given  us any information as to the impact  these  delays had 
on any particular transactions, despite  being encouraged to do so. I dont know  exactly  
what Ns intentions were  once they received either the deeds  or the redemption 
figures, whether  it (or any other parties  involved) would necessarily have seen any 
plans through  to fruition or  even if they did proceed  what these wouldve yielded. 
So it seems  to me that all I could  reasonably  compensate  N for here is the 
inconvenience of having to delay  or abort the exploration  of these potential 
opportunities, rather than for any financial losses.
On a related issue, I understand  Mrs N was concerned to learn that N wouldnt be able 
to proceed with a sale of any assets  held by the bank as security without a further 
valuation being  completed. But I dont think that was unreasonable.  Its common for 
any lender to want to review what the remaining security will be before agreeing to 
release any of it. And its reasonable  for such a valuation to be carried out by a 
surveyor of its choice.
Ref: DRN71591135And on the matter  of compensating  N for what had happened,  I said:
NatWest has already offered N compensation of £500 for the inconvenience caused by 
its errors.  From what Ive seen  so far, I think that is fair compensation to reflect:
The inconvenience  caused by NatWests refusal  to consider accepting reduced  
payments, in lieu of a full payment holiday,  given that N was paying  above the 
contractual minimum payment agreed  at the outset.  N was required to seek, 
consider and arrange alternative finance  elsewhere. Im also mindful that Mrs N 
was chasing NatWest for figures in relation to overpaid amounts over this 
period, with a view to utilising  that credit while N experienced reduced turnover 
 which  werent provided.
The additional inconvenience caused by delays  in dealing with Ns requests for 
title deeds and redemption statements. This required further effort  from N to get 
the necessary  information. This also meant that N was hampered in exploring  
potential business  opportunities.
I dont think N has suffered any financial losses as a result of NatWests  actions. It 
would always have  been required to make the payments due on the loans at some 
point, and doing so when  they fell due cost it less than deferring them wouldve done. 
And as noted  above, I dont think I can reasonably require NatWest to pay 
compensation for any potential losses in respect  of the business opportunities Mrs N 
has referred to. There are simply too many uncertainties for me to say what might 
otherwise have happened with these.
Mrs N also wanted NatWest to return the managements of the accounts  to a local 
relationship manager in light of these issues. But I dont think  thats something I could 
reasonably require it to do. In line with its own processes,  the accounts were  being 
handled by a central management team. I dont think its by virtue  of the fact they were 
being handled by that team  that these issues arose  and much of the delay and 
decision-making werent actually within the control of the relationship manager at 
whom Mrs N directs  responsibility for the issues anyway. So I dont think  I could 
reasonably require NatWest to reappoint  a local relationship manager  for N.
Lastly, I noted that Mrs N had concerns  with matters arising since  the complaint was made 
and while  it had been with our service,  including NatWests response  to a request for 
information about the payments made towards the loans and in connection  with closure of 
accounts. As those  issues arose after the bank  issued  its final response letter, I said they 
werent things I could consider within the scope  of this complaint.  So if Mrs N retained any 
concerns about  anything  NatWest had (or hadnt) done since  its final response  to this 
complaint, I suggested  that she might raise those with it separately. 
NatWest accepted my provisional decision,  but N didnt. Mrs N said she didnt think the £500 
compensation went anywhere  near far enough  to make up for the time shed spent  on these 
issues, the stress it had caused her and for the business opportunities it had cost N. She 
queried why NatWest hadnt assigned N a new relationship manager given the number of 
complaints raised.  And she said that N was still awaiting  information about the payments it 
had been making  to the account.
Ref: DRN71591136my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mrs Ns response to my 
provisional decision. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Ns further comments,  but shes not provided  any new information or 
made any new arguments to those  Id already considered before reaching  my provisional  
decision. So while  Ive thought about  things afresh in light of her comments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions Id reached previously. This decision  therefore  confirms my 
provisional findings, as set out above.
my final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already offered to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I 
think that is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank  Plc must  pay N £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159113