K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied a default to her credit file for a 
debt on a joint account. She would like the default  removed.  
background
Ms R held a joint account with Santander. Ms R says the expenditure by her ex-husband 
took the account into overdraft. Ms R says Santander were aware that she was getting 
divorced and feels they unfairly pursued her for the debt and registered a default on her 
credit file.
Santander say Ms R was jointly and severally  liable for the outstanding balance  on the 
account. They say efforts were made  to contact both account holders. A payment 
arrangement was put in place for March, April and May 2015 with the other account holder. 
No further payments were made, so Santander  wrote to the account holders at the address 
held for the account asking for contact to be made and asking for the outstanding balance  to 
be paid. As no response was received,  notice  of an intention to register a default was given. 
Again no response  was received, so a default  was applied to Ms Rs credit  file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Ms R was jointly and severally 
liable for the outstanding overdraft balance. And Santander had done nothing wrong in 
registering the default, as the overdraft hadnt  been  paid off in the time given.
Ms R disagrees with the view. She says Santander  were aware  that a divorce  was imminent  
and the overdraft would be paid off, she feels they were disinterested in the resolution and 
didnt contact her husband. The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to reassure Ms R that I have  considered  the points shes  raised. I dont underestimate  
Ms Rs distress when she found herself  being held responsible for a debt which  she considered  
wasnt hers.  This was clearly a difficult time. But as a joint account holder, Ms R was liable both 
individually and together with the other account holder for any debt on the account. In this 
instance, it was an unarranged overdraft.
Ive seen that Santander made attempts to contact both account  holders by telephone. The 
other account holder appears  to have set up a payment arrangement  for March, April and 
May 2015, but didnt then make any further  repayments. Santander wrote to both account 
holders at the address  held on the account  in May and June 2015, explaining that the 
overdrawn balance was outstanding and needed  to be paid.  Notice was then given that a 
default would be recorded if payment wasnt made and Santander explained that a default 
could stay on the credit reference file for six years.
Santander have  provided copies of the letters they say were sent at the time. I think  its more  
likely than not that these letters were sent and Ive taken into account that none of the letters 
were returned to Santander.  Our investigator has provided copies of the letters  to Ms R.  
Ref: DRN75436142As no payment was received  in time,  the account was defaulted in July. Whilst I do 
appreciate that Ms R had hoped to avoid  this situation, I cant  fairly say that Santander has 
done anything  wrong. 
Ive seen that Santander did give some  misleading  information about the balance on the 
account. They agreed to waive the balance and paid £40 to compensate for the error in the 
information provided. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms R, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7543614