K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and Ill explain why.
The policy was sold to Mrs C in store so I cant  be certain what  was said to her. But as FICL 
didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C it needed to ensure  that it provided clear  enough 
information so Mrs C could decide  if she wanted the policy  by herself. 
FICL has provided me with a copy of the credit agreement completed by Mrs C  I can see it 
briefly sets out the cost of the policy but its not clear if there was any mention of how interest 
would be charged  on the premiums  if there  was an outstanding balance. So I dont think  
Mrs C was made aware of the true costs of the policy, and I dont think FICL gave Mrs C 
clear enough  information  about  the policy. 
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs C because she has told us that she would have 
received between six to twelve  months sick pay from her employer, and that she had 
savings worth approximately  three  months of her salary, which means  she could have met 
her store card repayments for a while without the policy.  So I think  Mrs C probably  wouldnt 
have wanted the policy if shed properly  understood the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Mrs C wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
FICL has said that it wants to see evidence  of the savings and benefits that Mrs C had at the 
time. Mrs C hasnt  been able to provide  any evidence of her savings or employment benefits,  
but given that this sale took place 17 years  ago, I dont think  this is surprising. And from what 
shes told us I think its likely that she did have  savings,  and shes  been consistent  in her 
Ref: DRN75620022recollections of the sick pay she was entitled to as well. So I still think  I should uphold  the 
complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
And what FICL need to do will depend on if Mrs Cs account is still open.
if Mrs Cs store card account is still open:
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A. FICL  should find out how much Mrs C would owe on her card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owes  and what  she would  
have owed.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs C wouldve owed FICL something on her card.
C. FICL  should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A and B.
if Mrs Cs store card account is now closed:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest (at 8% a year)  on the difference  between what  Mrs C 
wouldve owed when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund.
Ref: DRN75620023C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year)  on the extra Mrs C paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs C wouldve owed FICL something  on her store  card.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what theyve done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax FICL have taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Financial Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation 
to Mrs C in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7562002