K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that NRAM Limited  mis-sold them  a mortgage. They  want 
compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs D re-mortgaged  their property with NRAM through  a broker in 2006 to buy 
properties abroad. They said that it had been  mis-sold because NRAM shouldnt  have lent to 
them due to their income  at the time. Mr and Mrs D said that the broker gave incorrect  
income to NRAM about their income  in the application form, and they only saw the signature 
page. Mr and Mrs D admitted that they didnt read the whole application or check  that it was 
accurate.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to NRAM. It said that it was the brokers  role to explain the 
mortgage and that it was suitable. NRAM said that it didnt mis-sell  the mortgage as it didnt 
sell the product to Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us. The broker didnt admit that he had committed mortgage  
fraud, but told this service  that NRAM didnt carry out sufficient checks  in his view.  The 
investigators view was that NRAM didnt give Mr and Mrs D advice or sell the mortgage; the 
regulated broker  was responsible for any mis-selling (if any took place).
Mr and Mrs D said that they had a new complaint and NRAM shouldnt have given them a 
mortgage to buy another  property. NRAM repeated its position. A second  investigator said 
that wed already  said that NRAM hadnt done anything  wrong  and wasnt willing  to proceed 
further. Mr and Mrs D said that this was a new complaint as NRAM shouldnt  have lent to 
them and was different to the first complaint. Mr and Mrs D then said that they had evidence 
that NRAM told the broker what to put in the application form. This evidence  was not new 
and had been seen by this service previously, but we agreed to re-open the original 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think Mr and Mrs D have raised a new 
complaint  their original  complaint was that NRAM mis-sold the mortgage; the new 
complaint is about  the decision to lend, the checks undertaken and that it knew the purpose  
of the loan was to buy property. I cant deal with the new complaint in this decision as it 
hasnt been investigated and this service hasnt given a view, though I accept that theres 
some overlap between  the two complaints.
I can deal with the original complaint. NRAM didnt sell the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs D, nor 
give them  advice about its suitability. This means that it didnt mis-sell  the mortgage.
Ref: DRN70914742More to the point,  NRAM didnt  choose  what figures  to put in the application form. 
Mr and Mrs D had a duty to check that the form was correctly completed and signed  a 
declaration to say that the form was accurate. If the broker  entered deliberately inaccurate 
information, thats mortgage  fraud and I note he hasnt admitted to doing this. I have to bear 
in mind the rules  that applied at the time, not now, and NRAM was entitled to rely on the 
representations made  in the application form submitted by the broker. The mortgage was 
self-certified, which means the broker was claiming  that the income was correct and checked  
by him. NRAM did carry out checks according  to the evidence available  to me, including 
credit checks, but it didnt  have to go further due to the involvement of the broker. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7091474