K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a secured 
loan. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold this policy to 
them. 
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a secured loan for £15,000  in 2003 over a repayment period of 288 
months. At the same  time they bought a PPI policy to protect their loan repayments in the 
event of Mr W becoming unable to work or losing his job. Mrs W wasnt  covered  on the 
policy.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with this and its been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Weve spoken  at length to Halifax about  these types of loans and as a consequence we 
know quite a bit about how they were generally sold.  We know, for example,  that consumers 
normally met with a branch advisor  to discuss their requirements. And we know  that as a 
result of that discussion,  a credit agreement was produced with all the relevant details on it. 
The consumer was then invited to check and sign the agreement to complete the process.
Halifax has sent me a copy of both the loan application  form and the credit agreement  for 
this loan. They appear to both be the types  of forms Ive seen many times and theres a 
section on both of them about PPI. There were  two boxes available on each form to either 
say yes or no to having PPI with their loan. 
On the application form, I can see this contained Mr Ws signature  specifically  asking for 
PPI. There was another box to say they didnt want any PPI. So clearly,  there was an option  
presented to them.
On the credit  agreement, the yes box was also selected  and the other one was left blank. 
Because they also both signed this form, I think this strongly shows Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
have the PPI and would have known it was optional.
I also know Halifaxs sales processes usually meant  that these types of sales  were advised 
sales. This means the PPI was recommended to them  and so Halifax  had a duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs. Mr and Mrs W said the PPI wasnt 
suitable because  they didnt need  it. But I think it was.
I think this because this was a long-term loan secured against their home.  So the 
consequences of not being  able to keep up payments  could have been serious. Mr W says 
Ref: DRN73634032he had some protection from sickness at work. But in my view, this doesnt make the policy 
unsuitable.
This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in the policy lasted much longer 
than what Mr W had in place with his job, and at £10.64 per month I dont think this wouldve 
been unaffordable. In the event of a successful  claim, the policy couldve covered the loan 
repayments for 1 year for unemployment  and for 5 years in the event of sickness.  This was 
in addition to any other  means they had in place. So I think  the policy  was suitable.
I cant say Mr and Mrs W would have been  told everything they should have been.  But I note 
the costs of both the loan and PPI were shown on the agreement.  So I think  they knew the 
costs and who was covered.  
To uphold  this case Id need to think Mr and Mrs W were made to buy the policy back  in 
2003, or that it wasnt suitable for them. I simply dont  have  that evidence.  And looking at 
their situation, I think its more likely they agreed  to the policy  because  it was something they 
wanted to have. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but Im afraid I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7363403