K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  was misrepresented. He wants  to reject  the vehicle  and 
end the agreement.
background
Mr M tells us he acquired the vehicle in February  2019. Prior to supply he says hed been in 
discussions with a broker, a company  Ill call C. And that hed informed them  his annual 
mileage was around 50,000 miles.  He says hed identified a vehicle which  he was happy to 
acquire and had provided the details  of this and the registration number to C. As a result of 
discussions with C, he says a different vehicle had been suggested and hed gone  along 
with this. But hed been led to believe it was very similar to the one which  hed previously 
identified. However,  upon  driving home  after collecting  the vehicle he says it had become 
apparent the vehicle  wasnt as powerful as hed expected or required.  He says he asked to 
return the vehicle  but this request was refused.
SMFL didnt  issue a final response  letter  before the complaint was referred  to this service.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. In a comprehensive view 
letter of 30 October 2019  he said he thought the vehicle had been misrepresented as C had 
been led to believe  that the vehicle with which he was supplied  was very similar to the more  
powerful vehicle hed indicated he was happy  to buy. He felt that important facts about  the 
vehicle hadnt  been provided  to Mr M and that if hed been made aware of the lower 
horsepower (HP) (95HP as opposed to120HP) compared to the vehicle  hed identified  he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the agreement. He thought Mr M should be allowed to reject  
the vehicle.
Following further comments by C, our adjudicator replied saying that the vehicle supplied 
had only been  brought to Mr Ms attention by C. And that he (Mr M) - before agreeing  to 
choose this vehicle - had relied upon information  given by C which  had omitted important 
facts. 
SMFL didnt  agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve  this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has experienced such a difficult time after entering into this agreement 
and finding the vehicle  supplied was not as hed expected. And this upset and 
inconvenience has been exacerbated as hes needed to source an alternative  vehicle  whilst  
the complaint  has been investigated.  This appears to have led to financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN75693772Mr Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. SMFL supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. That would include being fit for 
any purpose the consumer had indicated,  expressly  or by implication, was the reason they 
were contracting for the goods. Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly  - I do take it into 
account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA).  
Additionally, the effect of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  means that if 
theres been a misrepresentation  by the credit broker  (C) regarding the agreement or the 
goods, SMFL would  potentially  be liable  for any losses  Mr M incurred as the result of the 
misrepresentation.
Put briefly,  Mr Ms complaint amounts to an allegation of misrepresentation  regarding  the 
specification of the vehicle with which he was supplied.  He says hed identified  a vehicle 
which he was happy to acquire. But after discussions with Cs sales  agent he states that 
hed been persuaded  to choose a different vehicle albeit one with the same manufacturer 
and vehicle type. Mr M says this was a vehicle suggested by the agent and described  to him 
as being very similar to the one hed originally indicated. But he says that having collected it 
and driven it home hed immediately found  it was much less powerful  than hed expected 
and wasnt suitable  for the amount of annual mileage he covered. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and to suffer loss as a consequence  of the misrepresentation. But a 
misrepresentation can also occur by omission.  As an example, this might happen in the case 
of a half truth. So that a statement which is true as far as it goes, nonetheless can amount 
to a misrepresentation if it fails to disclose a material factor.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties. And if I dont refer 
to each item separately  its not that I havent  taken it on board. Its simply that I dont need  to 
refer to it separately in order to reach  my final decision.  And where facts are in dispute or 
information is unclear  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
Its fair to characterise the nature of the discussions  between Mr M and C - which led up to 
the agreement  - as involving a degree of toing and froing.  There were numerous  vehicles  
that came  under  consideration before the final choice was made.  And Mr M had initially 
provided a written list comprising of several vehicles in which he might  be interested. All the 
vehicles listed were  high powered vehicles from 1.6L engine size upwards.  And the last 
vehicle on this list was marked  with asterisks and was identified as having  a 1.6L engine with 
120 Horsepower (HP). I think  this gave sufficient indication of the sort of vehicle Mr M was 
interested in acquiring.
Ive also listened  to various phone calls which took place between Mr M and Cs sales  agent.
These recordings were identified in the adjudicators first view, in which  he gave a detailed 
summary of the contents of these calls.  I shant repeat that as both parties have seen it but I 
concur with his opinion in relation to the contents  of the calls.
When considering  the issue  of misrepresentation I thinks its right to view these 
circumstances in totality. And its important that in order to give a true context I take account 
of all the information that was exchanged  in the time leading  up to the agreement  and not 
just that contained in the final call prior to it being  completed.
Ref: DRN75693773Despite several different  vehicles having been discussed its clear  that Mr Ms choice quickly 
narrowed to focussing  on two vehicles. These were the vehicle hed identified in an email  
dated 6 February  2018 which hed asked C to follow up. And the vehicle which  was brought 
to his attention  by Cs sales  agent  and which was ultimately supplied. 
I think its clear  from the phone recordings that Mr M was in two minds  as to which vehicle to 
choose. But the reason for this indecision was that he thought both were virtually the same. 
In relation to the vehicles the agent  had said:
 Same colour, same age, pretty  much  the same  mileage, both Petrol, and both five doors.
But theres no mention  of the power  rating  of the vehicle. This proved to be 95HP (as 
opposed to 120 HP of Mr Ms identified vehicle). Bearing in mind the previous exchanges 
between Mr M and Cs agent - including  Mr M advising  his annual  mileage  was around 
50,000 miles and the list of high powered  vehicles which hed originally sent - I think it 
shouldve been  apparent  that this issue was an important consideration for him. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Mr M to think the agent wouldve only been  referring  him to 
vehicles with similar power and which were suitable for the employment needs hed 
disclosed.
I should emphasise that Im not suggesting  that the sales agent was intentionally misleading 
Mr M. I accept she was trying to assist  him to acquire a suitable  vehicle.  But even where 
incorrect statements and/or material omissions are innocent, if the effect is to induce  the 
consumer into entering an agreement it can nonetheless amount to a misrepresentation.
Its also unfortunate that the finance agreement which Mr M e-signed doesnt identify the 
precise specification  of the vehicle. It refers only to manufacturer and model.  And Mr M 
wasnt supplied with the V5 registration document when he collected the vehicle. So it wasnt 
until hed actually driven the vehicle  that the power issue was identified.
Mr M made his complaint promptly and I find it somewhat disappointing that a more 
proactive stance wasnt taken by SMFL.  The issue was raised within a few days and its hard 
to see why the agreement couldnt  have been unwound. Even  a cursory enquiry wouldve 
established the high probability  that either a genuine  mistake  of fact had occurred in relation  
to the vehicle - or thered been  an innocent misrepresentation. The vehicle had only travelled 
a few extra miles so the agreement  couldve been ended with little detriment to either party. 
And the fact that the vehicle has since remained unused  is ample  proof that Mr M would 
never have  entered an agreement to acquire it if hed been  given  all the relevant information.
In summary,  I find that its more  probable  than not that there was a misrepresentation of this 
vehicle. And it was also not fit for the purpose  of travelling  the extensive  mileage  in the 
course of employment  which Mr M had made  known was his purpose in acquiring it.
Im upholding this complaint and finding  that Mr M is now entitled to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement. Im not sure how many payments have been made towards the vehicle 
but these should all be refunded.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Specialist Motor  Finance Limited to take the following action:
Ref: DRN756937741.End the agreement and accept Mr Ms rejection of the vehicle;
2.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mr M;
3.Refund all payments made under  the agreement  together with simple  interest  at the 
rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
4.Arrange to have  all details of the agreement removed from Mr Ms credit  file;
5.Pay Mr M £200 for distress and inconvenience;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7569377