K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS).  Hes unhappy  that it failed 
to set up a direct debit  to collect  funds for investment. He says that hes lost out on 
investment returns as a result.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by his independent financial adviser  (IFA).
Background
Mr D had set up an account with ATS. This was intended to receive funds from his SIPP for 
investment. The account  was arranged in March 2017 and a direct debit instruction was 
provided to ATS for quarterly payments of £95,000 to be collected from the SIPP  beginning 
on 1 June 2017.
The direct debit wasnt set up correctly and the payments werent collected. This was 
discovered in December 2017.
Mr Ds IFA complained, saying that Mr D had lost out due to the funds not being collected  
and invested.  The IFA said that ATS had given an assurance that it would send a notification  
when funds were received  and the funds  would then be invested in accordance  with an 
agreed strategy.
ATS upheld  the complaint in part. It accepted that it had made  an error in not setting up the 
direct debit correctly but it didnt  agree  to offer any compensation for investment loss. It 
pointed to its terms and conditions which excluded liability for any errors which werent 
brought to its attention within six months.  But it did offer £112.50 which represented  half of 
its annual management  fee.
Mr D didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator who initially considered that ATS were  responsible for investment loss. He felt 
that if the direct debit  had been set up, ATS would have notified the IFA when funds were 
received and the funds would have been  investment.
ATS didnt  agree. It said that its service  didnt notify  when funds were received  and it was the 
responsibility of the IFA to invest funds. Also, the fact the error  hadnt been noticed until 
December suggested  there was no intention  to invest.
The investigator reconsidered and decided that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  He said 
that ATS would have  held funds in cash until investment instructions were received and 
accepted that, in the normal course  of events, it didnt notify when  funds were  received. The 
IFA had on-line access to the account  and could have checked  it.
Mr D responded via his IFA, the IFA said that it had been assured  that there would be a 
notification when funds  were received. The IFA also said that the offer of £112.50  was 
inadequate in any event.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
  
Ref: DRN75979052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
ATS has accepted it made an error in not setting  up the direct debit correctly.  But Im not 
satisfied that this caused Mr D any investment loss. Thats  because  any funds ATS received 
could only have been invested with further instructions from the IFA. The IFA knew there  
was a payment  intended for 1 June 2017.  It says that it expected to be notified when funds 
were received. I accept  the evidence of ATS that it was not its normal practise to notify when 
funds were received.  Even if the IFA had received some verbal assurance to the contrary, I 
would have expected it to have its own mechanism in place to check  the account. The IFA 
had on-line access to the account and these were  substantial payments being made in 
accordance with an agreed  schedule. 
So Im not satisfied that the failure to set up the direct debit actually caused  any investment 
loss to Mr D. No investment could  be made  without instruction from the IFA. ATS had no 
obligation to notify of the receipt  of funds, and even  if it did, I would expect the IFA to have 
its own systems  in place to monitor and check.
Overall, I think the offer to pay half of the annual fee is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I think the offer Alliance Trust Savings Limited to pay £112.50 
is fair in all the circumstances. It should  pay this sum to Mr D if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7597905