K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) mis-sold a buildings 
and contents policy to her. She says that when her existing policy came to an end she 
agreed to take out a policy with Lloyds  which  she believed included personal belongings 
cover, but it didnt.  
background 
Mrs B was sold a combined  buildings  and contents policy  in 2014. This replaced two existing 
policies which covered her buildings and contents  separately. Mrs Bs existing contents 
policy included personal belongings cover.
Mrs B assumed that the new combined policy also included  personal belongings cover.  She 
tried to claim  on the policy in 2018 for a lost/stolen mobile phone.  She was advised  that her 
claim had been  declined because she didnt have personal belongings cover.
Mrs B complained to this service. She felt she had been mis-sold the policy by Lloyds 
because shed previously  had personal  belongings  cover  and hadnt  requested  for this to be 
removed.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Mrs B had previously 
held personal  belongings  cover and felt it was more likely shed  have asked for this cover to 
be included  in her new policy  rather than request for it to be removed. The investigator also 
said that although there was a responsibility  on Mrs B to check  the paperwork to a certain 
extent, the policy schedule sent to her in 2014  didnt make it clear that she no longer had 
personal belongings cover.
The investigator recommended  that Lloyds should  cover the costs  incurred by Mrs B for 
coming out of the mobile phone contract  together with compensation of £150 for trouble and 
upset. He said the extra premiums which Mrs B should have paid to include personal 
belongings cover should be deducted, as well as the excess  under her policy.
Lloyds accepted the investigators view. But Mrs B didnt agree. She said that her actual 
costs of replacing the phone hadnt  been  covered and she didnt think  it was fair that 
premiums should be deducted. She also wanted  more compensation.
Lloyds reconsidered  Mrs Bs claim and said it would pay for the cost of a replacement  phone 
at £849.00. It said that Mrs B could have added personal belongings cover to her policy  
which wouldve increased her annual premium by £38.12, which  amounted to £152.48 over 
the four years that Mrs B held the policy. It made an offer to settle Mrs Bs claim in the sum 
of £646.52 (after deduction  of £152.48  premiums and £50 excess).
Mrs B remained unhappy.  She didnt  agree  that the premiums should be deducted from the 
settlement and said she wanted  compensation for the inconvenience shed suffered and the 
length of time it had taken to resolve  her complaint.
Since then,  Lloyds has made an interim  payment of £646.52 to Mrs B.
Mrs B has asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision in relation to the points shes 
raised regarding  deduction of premiums  and compensation.
Ref: DRN72418412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs main argument here is that she was led to believe that the policy which  was sold to 
her by Lloyds included personal  belongings cover.  She says the only reason she made  the 
decision to take out the policy was because she was under the impression that it included  
the same  cover as her old policy at a cheaper cost. 
I cant be certain of exactly what was said. However,  its not in dispute that Mrs B already 
had personal belongings cover on her previous  policy with Lloyds. Mrs B has been  
consistent in her testimony  that shes always taken out personal belongings cover  because 
its cheaper than insuring her familys mobile phones separately.  Because  of this, I think  its 
more likely than not that Mrs B would have asked for personal belongings cover to remain on 
her new policy rather than ask for it to be removed.
Lloyds has said that because the policies  that Mrs B has taken out with it in the past have  all 
been sold through different channels  or branches, the sellers in the branch would have  been  
dependent on what Mrs B told them regarding her cover. Im surprised  at what  Lloyds has 
said, because I think Lloyds wouldve been  able to access  Mrs Bs previous policies and 
check them.  However, whether or not Lloyds  had access to Mrs Bs previous policies doesnt  
make any difference  to my view because Im satisfied that Mrs B would have asked for 
personal belongings cover in any event.
Lloyds has said that the onus was on Mrs B to check the documents which were sent to her 
to make sure the policy provided the level of cover she wanted. Having looked at the policy  
schedule, I dont think this makes it very clear that Mrs B no longer had personal belongings 
cover.
Taking everything into consideration, I think that Lloyds  mis-sold the policy to Mrs B.
I understand why Mrs B feels  that its unfair for Lloyds to deduct the premiums  that she 
would have paid to include personal  belongings cover on her policy. She says she only 
agreed to take the policy because it was £60 cheaper than her existing policy  and that if she 
wasnt making a saving, she wouldntve taken the policy.
Lloyds has explained  that Mrs Bs annual premiums wouldve increased by £38.12 if shed 
added personal  belongings  cover to the policy. I can see that Mrs B would still have made a 
saving on her old policy, so I think she wouldve taken the Lloyds policy  in any event.
Mrs B has said that because Lloyds mis-sold her the policy it shouldnt be able to recover the 
difference between  the premium it quoted and the premium  it shouldve charged. Ive taken 
into account all of the points which Mrs B has made  but I think  the cost of the additional 
premiums should be repaid  back to the inception  of the policy.  This amounts to £152.48 
(£38.12 x 4 years).
Ive looked carefully  at Mrs Bs case and in deciding  what fair compensation should  be, Ive 
thought about her personal circumstances and our approach to these  types of cases  more 
generally. Having  done so, I think  Lloyds  should  pay £150 compensation to Mrs B for the 
trouble and upset  shes  experienced.
Ref: DRN72418413my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.   In addition to the interim payment already  
paid to Mrs B, Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited must  pay compensation of £150.  
Lloyds Bank  Insurance Services Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
*If Lloyds  Bank Insurance Services  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  and 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much  its taken 
off. It should  also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7241841