K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs C hold with The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
(RBS). RBS didnt reset Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage direct  debit  in June 2016 after they took a 
draw-down on their flexible offset  mortgage which led to the mortgage payments not being 
made for two years.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out this flexible offset  mortgage in September 2010; the account allowed 
money to be drawn-down up to a maximum credit limit. In June 2016 Mr and Mrs C took a 
draw-down.
Nothing further happened until RBS contacted  Mr and Mrs C in June 2018 to say that no 
payments had been made to the mortgage  for two years.  
RBS admitted it had made a mistake  and apologised  for that. It said it had not re-set the 
mortgage direct debit after the draw-down had been completed.  It also apologised for not 
contacting Mr and Mrs C about the arrears  for two years. 
RBS set up a repayment  plan that would mean the missed payments would be paid over a 
two-year period. It said it would amend Mr and Mrs Cs credit  files from July 2016  to date 
(that is, to when the repayment plan was started) so that they wouldnt show any missed 
payments. It also paid £200  compensation.
Our adjudicator thought that was a reasonable offer, explaining Mr and Mrs C should  have 
noticed they hadnt paid their mortgage for two years, bearing in mind  they got monthly bank 
statements and quarterly  mortgage statements. She also said RBS didnt offer face to face 
meetings with the collections team,  which is what Mr and Mrs C had asked for.
Initially Mr and Mrs C left matters there, but then they came  back to us months later saying 
they were having  trouble getting  credit elsewhere. It was explained  that whilst the historical 
arrears were  removed from their credit  files, from September 2018 the account will show as 
being in an arrangement as that was a true reflection of the circumstances. Mr and Mrs C 
werent happy with this so its been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
RBS has already admitted it made a mistake, so I dont need to make a finding on what 
happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. What I need to decide  is whether the offer made  by RBS is 
fair, or whether further compensation is warranted.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the existing offer is fair. Whilst RBS made the 
initial mistake, Mr and Mrs C had plenty of opportunities  to notice the mistake  and let RBS 
know. Mr and Mrs C received  mortgage statements every three months, and these very 
Ref: DRN70764182clearly show that no mortgage  payments were made for the two-year period. I would have 
expected Mr and Mrs C to read at least one of the eight  mortgage statements that were 
issued in the period they werent paying their mortgage.
Ive also reviewed the transaction history of the bank account  Mr and Mrs C normally  paid 
the mortgage from. At the time the payments ceased Mr and Mrs C were  paying £888 a 
month to the mortgage. Having considered the transaction history carefully I find it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C didnt notice they had £888 a month  more than they should for two years.  I say 
this because the last time their account  was in credit  (before their payments stopped)  was 
for a period  of around a week in November 2015.  From then it ran permanently overdrawn 
(by around  £2,000)  until the mortgage  payments stopped in June 2016.  From  July 2016 the 
account generally ran in credit which would have been a very noticeable  change  for 
Mr and Mrs C and one that I would have expected them to have looked into. £888 every 
month was a very significant sum when looking at the money in and out of the account; it 
wasnt something that could get easily overlooked in day to day spending.
As a rule a consumer  has a duty to mitigate their losses.  So whilst RBS made  a mistake in 
not re-setting  the mortgage direct debit, Mr and Mrs C had a responsibility to ensure their 
mortgage payments  were  made. On that basis I think the offer made  by RBS is more  than 
reasonable.
A credit file has to be an accurate reflection of the account in question and Ive seen nothing  
to show thats not the case here.  Mr and Mrs C are currently in an arrangement to pay the 
overdue payments,  and thats reflected in their credit files. If Mr and Mrs C want to add an 
explanatory note to their credit files theyre  free to contact the credit reference  agencies 
directly to discuss that further.
I understand Mr and Mrs C would like a face to face meeting,  and theyre unhappy RBS 
hasnt agreed to that. RBS doesnt offer face to face meetings with its collections department  
which is the area Mr and Mrs C need  to deal with. Thats not something  I can interfere with 
as thats a commercial  decision RBS is entitled  to make.   RBS  said Mr and Mrs C can call it 
if they want to discuss  a new rate as thats  the correct route  for that discussion to take place.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7076418