K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Santander UK Plc wouldnt raise a chargeback request on her behalf.
background
Miss O asked  Santander to raise  a dispute about transactions shed made between  March 
and September  2018 to an online trading company. Shed become concerned  about  the 
company and said it wasnt providing the services shed expected and itd advertised.
Santander said it couldnt do this because it didnt  have  enough  evidence  to raise  a 
chargeback. But it credited  her account with £30 for poor customer  service.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had done  anything wrong. He thought it was 
reasonable for Santander to ask Miss O for some more information.  And because  she didnt 
provide that information he didnt think Santander had acted unfairly.
Miss O wasnt happy with this. She said shed given Santander further evidence but it said it 
wasnt sufficient to raise a chargeback. She said the decision of Santander not to use her 
documents to raise  a chargeback was not for Santander to make .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Miss O will be disappointed with my decision but after considering the additional  
points shes raised  Ive come to the same  conclusion  as the investigator for very similar 
reasons. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So I cant  decide whos entitled to the 
money in dispute.  And a chargeback isnt a right under the scheme. As our investigator said,  
Santander didnt  have to raise a chargeback. Before doing so it needed to assess  whether 
the chargeback  had a reasonable prospect of success.
Miss O said she shed  sent Santander further information. And I can see that it looked at this 
evidence but it decided it wasnt enough to raise a chargeback. It was entitled to make  that 
decision. I can understand  how upsetting it is for Miss O, particularly in light of the amount of 
money involved. But Santander  wasnt being unreasonable to find that, after considering  all 
her evidence, it couldnt say that her claim had a reasonable  prospect of success.
So I cant fairly find Santander has done  anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN73551082my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7355108