K820x#14complaint
Mr W says that National  Westminster Bank Plc didnt  do enough to help him when he was 
the victim of a scam.
background
In June 2016, Mr W transferred £5,000 to purchase a vehicle that he found advertised on-
line. He realised hed been scammed when he went to collect  the vehicle from an address 
hed been given. He contacted NatWest to let them know what had happened. It contacted 
the bank that had received the payment in an attempt to recover the money,  but it wasnt 
able to do so. The funds had already been removed  from the account.  Mr W says that, if it 
had acted sooner,  it wouldve been possible to recover his payment.
The money Mr W lost to the scammer was part of the proceeds of a loan hed taken out with 
NatWest just a few days earlier. £15,250  was paid into his account  on 31 May. On 1 and 3 
June, he made payments  of £2,235, £1,200  and £2,058.50. The payment to the scammer 
was made  on 10 June.
 
Mr Ws complaint  was looked at by an investigator  who didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think that Mr Ws payment wouldve appeared unusual or out of character and so didnt 
think NatWest had done anything wrong in not questioning  the transfer with him. The 
investigator also received  records  from NatWest  that showed  that, by the time Mr W told it of 
the scam,  it was too late. The payment had been  removed from the receiving account 
around two hours earlier.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He argued that this payment was out of 
character. He said it was the largest  payment hed ever made to a new payee. He thought 
that there  was a more general responsibility on NatWest to warn  him about the potential risk 
of fraud. Hes also unhappy that newer rules have  since been brought  in that might have 
offered him a greater level of protection and that, even if they werent in place back  in 2016, 
NatWest was nonetheless aware  of how widespread similar frauds were and ought to have 
taken more responsibility to protect  his money.  
As Mr W disagreed with the investigators  opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reason.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Theres no question that Mr W has been the victim  of a cynical scam. But the question  that I 
must consider here is the extent to which NatWest can be considered  liable for his losses.  
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
Ref: DRN78198582and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of that customers account.  
But that is not the whole the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like NatWest  are also required to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to look to identify and help prevent  transactions - particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could  involve fraud  or be the result of a scam. That means 
there are circumstances where  a bank should take additional steps,  or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr W when he carried out this transfer  and when he reported that it was fraudulent. Ive 
considered this point  carefully and I agree with the investigator that it hasnt  done  anything 
wrong here.
I dont think this payment  was out of character.  For the statement information Ive seen,  this 
payment was the largest Mr W made  in the months  leading up to the scam  but I can see 
that there  were other payments of £1,000 and £2,000. Mr W has pointed out that hed not 
sent a payment this large to a new payee before. But he had just taken out a loan and to 
purchase a vehicle. In that context, its not unreasonable  to expect a larger than normal  
payment shortly after the proceeds of the loan had been paid into his account.
Working out whether a payment is one that a business ought to look at more  closely cant  be 
an exact science.  With the benefit of hindsight, I recognise that, if NatWest had intervened, it 
mightve been able to prevent Mr W being a victim of a scam. But given the information that 
was available  to it at the time of the payment, I dont think  its decision to not look at it more 
closely was an unreasonable one.
I also think NatWest did everything it could to recover the payment once it had been  alerted 
to the scam. Unfortunately, the evidence Ive seen shows that it had already been  removed 
from the receiving account some  time before Mr W was able to inform  it as to what had 
happened.
I recognise how strongly Mr W feels about  his complaint and, in particular, that NatWest 
might be expected to respond to his complaint differently if the payment had occurred today,  
rather than in 2016. But I can only consider the relevant  expectations that were in place at 
the time of the event hes complained about.  Having  done so, I dont think  NatWest  needed  
to do more here. 
Ref: DRN78198583Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7819858