K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
The policy initially  covered Mr E only.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Bradford & Bingley  disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain  why below.
When selling  the PPI, Bradford & Bingley had to give Mr and Mrs E clear information  about it 
so they could decide if it was right for them. But, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I dont 
think Bradford & Bingley  gave Mr and Mrs E clear enough information about  the costs  and 
benefits of the policy.
Bradford & Bingley  has said that the mortgage application form for Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  
shows they had been given all the information  they needed. But I dont  agree. The PPI 
section on the mortgage application form asks Mr and Mrs E if they want  PPI, but I dont 
think it clearly  explains  the costs and benefits of the policy. And I dont think theres enough  
evidence for me to say that these costs and benefits  were clearly explained to Mr and Mrs E 
at any other  point during the sale either.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs E as theyve told us that Mr E wouldve been 
entitled to six months full sick pay from his employer. And that he had an income protection 
policy that wouldve  covered him from then on. And theyve sent us documents to show  that 
the benefit from the income protection policy wouldve  covered  the significant  majority of his 
salary and that it was in place at the time of the PPI sale.
So it looks  like Mr and Mrs E had enough other  financial protection to not really  need the 
PPI. And so I dont  think they wouldve bough the policy if Bradford & Bingley  had given 
them clear  enough  information about it and that theyve lost out as a result of what Bradford 
& Bingley did wrong.
Bradford & Bingley  has said that Mr and Mrs E asked to amend the PPI policy  around  two 
and a half years after the sale, which shows they felt it was still right for them.  But I dont 
think this shows they were given any more information about the PPI. So I still dont think  
Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr and Mrs E clear enough  information about the PPI for them to 
make a decision about it. So I still think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN71885202putting things right
Bradford & Bingley  should put Mr and Mrs E in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Bradford & Bingley  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs E the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Bradford & Bingley 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bradford & Bingley  to take off tax from this interest.  
Bradford & Bingley  must give Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188520