K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt stop funds from leaving their 
account when  they were  the victim of a scam. They also dont think Lloyds did enough  to 
recover their funds  from the beneficiary  bank.  
background
Mr and Mrs G made two separate  transfers  to a scammer for what  they thought  was a 
chalet:
6 December 2017: transfer  of £273
7 December 2017: transfer  of £3,613
Total transferred: £3,886
Mr and Mrs G had no reason to suspect anything was wrong  until they arrived at the address 
of the chalet and found  that it didnt exist. Upon reporting the matter to the local police, the 
website they used to arrange the chalet was taken down. 
Mr and Mrs G reported  the fraud  to Lloyds on 27 December 2017. Lloyds raised the issue 
with the beneficiary  bank  on the same day. Mrs G had to chase Lloyds on several  occasions  
and says an advisor was rude to her during  one of these calls.  
Lloyds set up two separate  complaints, one for each payment. They  sent Mr and Mrs G a 
letter on 26 January 2018 for one of the complaints explaining no funds remained in the 
beneficiary bank. But they closed the second  complaint  in February  2018  without telling Mr 
and Mrs G, as the beneficiary bank  hadnt responded to their information requests. 
Upon reviewing the two complaints, Lloyds recognised  it hadnt  handled them  very well and 
offered Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation for the impact their errors had. But they didnt 
agree they should refund  the £3,886 because Mr and Mrs G authorised the payments and 
Lloyds followed their instructions. Mr and Mrs G rejected the offer and still felt Lloyds should 
reimburse the £3,886.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think Lloyds system failed in its 
obligations when  it didnt flag the payment as potentially fraudulent.  And she felt Lloyds had 
done enough to try and recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank. She did agree Lloyds 
couldve handled the complaint itself better but felt the £300 already offered was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings and said they expected a refund of 
at least half of what they had lost to the scammer.  As an informal  agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
Ref: DRN73204772codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
Having done so, I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in allowing the two transfers to 
leave Mr and Mrs Gs account.  And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover  the 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  I do agree  that it made errors when handling the complaint, 
but I think the £300 already offered is fair. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds (although  not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known  as the Quincecare duty); and   
regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required  to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence (FCA  Principle  for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6); and
good industry practice  at the time,
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr and Mrs G when they transferred the £3,886, or whether  it should  have done more than it 
did.
Mr and Mrs G made two separate  transfers  to the scammer over two days. They have 
accepted that they authorised the transfers themselves. Because of this, Lloyds were  under 
an obligation  to follow these instructions. Ive considered whether Lloyds should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers.   
Looking at the statements for the account,  I dont think the payments were particularly 
unusual or suspicious  in comparison to Mr and Mrs Gs normal account activity.  There isnt 
anything remarkable about this payment in terms of either its value or payment  type;  Mr and 
Mrs G had made several other transfers,  including payments to international accounts. So, I 
think the fact that Lloyds  systems didnt flag this payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G notified  Lloyds on 27 December  2017  that theyd been the victim of a scam. 
Lloyds has provided  evidence to show they contacted the beneficiary bank for each 
complaint as follows:
Ref: DRN73204773Payment one
27 December 2017, contacted beneficiary  to request a refund of the funds,
11 January 2018, chased beneficiary  bank,
23 January 2018, chased beneficiary  bank,  
24 January 2018, beneficiary bank confirmed no funds remained.
Payment two
27 December 2017; contacted beneficiary  to request a refund of the funds,
10 January 2018, chased beneficiary  bank,
25 January 2018, chased beneficiary  bank,
22 February 2018, closed case due to no response. 
Considering this, I think Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank within  a reasonable period of 
time to request a refund of the funds. It should  be noted that this is on a best endeavours 
basis, so theres no guarantee of a refund. And I think Lloyds did enough to chase the 
beneficiary bank  for a response. So, I dont think it needed to do anything more in the 
circumstances. 
As I previously mentioned, I do agree that Lloyds could have kept Mr and Mrs G better 
informed of the status of their complaints and theyve acknowledged  their advisor didnt act 
appropriately during a telephone call with Mrs G. Theyve offered £300  in recognition of this 
which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Gs situation  and I appreciate this isnt the outcome  they 
were hoping for. But after carefully  considering  everything available to me, I think Lloyds 
decision not to refund Mr and Mrs G in this instance  was fair and reasonable. It followed Mr 
and Mrs Gs instruction to make the two transfers totalling £3,886 and I havent seen any 
reason why it should not have done  this. And I think it took sufficient steps to try and recover 
the funds in a timely manner once it was notified of the scam. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Lloyds Bank  PLC isnt required  to refund  the £3,886. It is up to Mr and Mrs G to decide  if 
they would  like to accept the £300 offered to them for the distress and inconvenience the 
delays and bad service have caused them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7320477