K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs H complain  that esure Insurance Limited didnt offer them enough for their 
stolen car when they made a claim on Mrs Hs motor insurance policy.
background
esure told Mr P and Mrs H that it had looked  at the valuations given in three of the national 
motor trade  guides  to establish what the market value of the stolen  car was at the time of the 
theft. It offered  them £5,000. Mr P and Mrs H noted  that esure hadnt taken into account the 
valuation in a fourth  trade guide. They werent happy that they hadnt been given the 
valuations so they could check they were based  on the right date. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.  She thought esure  had acted reasonably. 
She checked esures valuations, which were correct  although  one of them  had changed as 
it only shows a real time valuation. She also checked the valuation shown in the fourth trade  
guide, which was significantly higher  than the others. She said wed usually discount  any 
valuation that was out of line. The investigator averaged out the valuations esure initially  
found with the higher one shed found.  She said the difference between that sum and the 
sum esure had offered  wasnt  enough to make esures offer unreasonable.
The investigator also looked at advertised prices and said they were between £4,500 and 
£4,800 (in January 2019). But she acknowledged  that prices may have  varied over time.   
Mr P and Mrs H said this service recommended that four trade guides should  be consulted. 
They didnt think the two higher valuations that had been found  should be disregarded. They 
said the difference between esures offer and the average of all four valuations  was 
significant to them. And they pointed out that in August 2018, when the car was stolen, 
prices for similar cars were much  higher than the ones noted in January 2019.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint as follows:
We dont normally give much weight  to adverts, although I think advertised  prices for cars 
similar to the stolen  car would have been higher in August 2018. I think whats important is 
looking at the valuations that were  used and how reasonable esures offer was. 
Insurers are aware that we use a fourth trade  guide and that it may sometimes  have  an 
impact on whether we think a fair price  has been  offered for a car. In many cases, the fourth 
guide has little or no impact.  But this case, I think if esure had looked at all four guides  it may 
have offered Mr P and Mrs H more  for their stolen car. 
The valuations esure found were £5,000, £4,915 (only £85 less) and £5,571.  It offered only 
£43 more than the lowest valuation. It says it discounted the third,  higher valuation.  The 
fourth guides valuation   which it didnt note - was £6,000. In my opinion, it would be 
reasonable to give due regard to more than two of the guides valuations. The lower two 
were both £500 or so less than the middle one. The highest was £500 more than that.   
Had there only been one valuation at or around £5,000, plus one at £5,500 and one at 
£6,000, I would probably have said it would have been fair to expect esure  to pay Mr S and 
Mrs H £5,500 for their car. I dont think the fact that there were two valuations at or around  
Ref: DRN73352872the lowest valuation  means the other  two should  be entirely disregarded.  But I think  it means 
that less than £5,500 should be payable. 
The average of the three guides esure looked at is £5,162. The average  of all four valuations 
is £5,371. In my opinion,  the fairest offer in this case would be somewhere between those 
figures. I think  the extra sum esure  should  pay Mr S and Mrs H should  be somewhere 
between £162  and £371. I think an extra £250  would be fair and reasonable.      
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mr P and Mrs H accepted it, but 
esure didnt.  It said only two valuations were  in line with one another,  so the other two should 
be dismissed.  esure also said if all four guides had to be considered,  then the fair range 
value would be between  £4,915 and £6,000.  So its offer of £5,000 fell within the fair range. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think esures offer was almost at the bottom of the fair market value range. I havent said 
esure should pay as much as the average  of all four guides. But Im still of the view that the 
higher two valuations should have some impact  on the outcome. So I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for esure to pay £250 more for the car.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr S and Mrs H £250 more. It should add interest at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the 
date of the initial payment to the date of settlement. If esure thinks its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from the interest, it should explain what its 
taken off and provide  a tax deduction  certificate  for reclaiming the tax if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I must ask Mr P and Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7335287