K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  the handling of a claim by Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) 
under the home emergency section  of her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs L contacted IPA when her boiler stopped working. IPAs  appointed engineer  diagnosed  
the boiler as having a tight pump,  and got it working again. Around  a week  later, the boiler  
broke down  again.  IPAs  engineer attended  the next day, and concluded  that the boiler 
would need a new pump.
Three days later, the same contractor unsuccessfully tried to fit a standard pump. Two days 
after that, IPAs  contractor came to fit the replacement pump that had been ordered. 
However, the contractor  then diagnosed  the need  for a new printed  circuit board (PCB). Mrs 
L was concerned  that the PCB may have been  damaged by the earlier work done when 
attempting to fit the standard pump. However,  because Mrs L wanted her boiler to be fixed, 
she agreed to the PCB being replaced  at the same  time as the replacement  pump was fitted.
The home emergency section of Mrs Ls policy covers repairs  for any one event up to a cost 
of £250. Where the repair costs more, IPA will only arrange it if the policyholder  agrees to 
pay the excess over £250.  IPA stated that the cost of replacing the pump  was £330, and so 
Mrs L was asked to pay £80 towards  this. Replacing the PCB cost a further £237.60, which  
Mrs L also had to pay under the policy terms  and so in total Mrs L paid £317.60 to get her 
boiler working again.
At the same time that IPA was arranging to carry out the repairs,  Mrs L contacted  the boiler 
manufacturer directly.  The manufacturer confirmed  that it would replace any parts  required  
to ensure the boiler was operational  again  for £299, and that would  include  a free six months 
call out/repair policy. Mrs L asked IPA if it would allow the manufacturer  to fix the boiler, so 
that she would pay £49 and IPA would  pay the maximum cover amount of £250. IPA 
declined to agree with this proposal.
Mrs L complained to IPA about its handling  of her claim. In particular she suggested that 
IPAs contractor may have damaged the PCB with its attempt to fit a standard pump. She 
was also unhappy  that she considered the cost she had incurred included a labour charge 
relating to the unsuccessful attempt to fit a standard pump.
In response IPA accepted that repairing the boiler took more visits from its contractor than it 
would have expected. It did not agree that the PCB had failed due to negligence from its 
contractor. However, to reflect the service it had provided, it offered Mrs L £160 
compensation (and I understand  this amount has been paid to Mrs L). Unhappy with this 
response, Mrs L brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He appreciated why Mrs L considered that 
she may have been charged for unnecessary  labour when the contractor  attempted to fit the 
standard pump. He also considered the visit to fit the standard pump was unnecessary,  as 
the contractor should  have known  that the boiler needed a specialist pump, which  it had 
already ordered.  However, the investigator didnt think  it had been  shown  that the contractor 
caused damage to the PCB. 
Ref: DRN70043872Overall, the investigator  concluded that IPA had not caused unreasonable  delays  getting  the 
boiler working. As IPA had paid Mrs L £160 compensation, this reduced  her overall cost 
outlay from £317.60  to £157.60. The investigator  considered IPAs  offer represented an 
appropriate way to resolve this matter. He also said that under the terms of the policy, IPA 
was not required  to cover the costs of any repairers  appointed separately by Mrs L.
Mrs Ls husband Mr L responded on her behalf that she did not accept these findings. He 
has commented that on the balance  of probabilities, it is likely the fitting of the incorrect  
pump damaged the PCB. He considers the individual who attempted to fit that pump was not 
gas safe registered, making it more likely  that he caused the PCB damage.  Mr L has also 
highlighted that the contractor did not charge labour for fitting the PCB,  and managed  to 
source the PCB much  quicker than the pump. He has suggested that this might have been 
because the contractor suspected it had damaged the PCB. Mr L has pointed out that IPA 
has not provided the contractors job sheets, and says that consequently  any doubt about  
the cause of the damage to the PCB should  fall in his favour.
With regard to the time taken to obtain  the replacement pump, Mr L says that he and his wife 
were not told this could  take 3-5 days.  He understood that this would be much quicker, and 
that is why he chased  daily for an update on this. Mr L has suggested that either  the 
contractor did not order the pump when it said that it did, or that it arrived earlier than IPA 
has suggested was the case. Mr L also considers that the contractor loaded  the cost of the 
pump within its invoice  to keep the labour cost down.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Central to this dispute is the time taken to repair Mrs Ls boiler, and whether IPAs contractor 
damaged the PCB in the course of the work  it carried out. I understand Mrs Ls frustration 
that the replacement pump was fitted  five days after the contractor said that it had been 
ordered. However, I do not consider  that I have sufficient reason to doubt that the part did 
take this long to obtain. The dates in question ran over a weekend, and in my view it is not 
unreasonable to expect  that a part might  take this long to become available for fitting. In 
addition, the time taken  to restore the boiler  to working order does not in my view seem to 
have been excessive.
I cannot know for certain whether  IPAs contractor did cause damage  to the PCB, in 
particular when attempting to fit the standard pump. Mr L has raised concerns about the 
qualifications of the engineer who carried this work out. He has also questioned whether the 
speed with which the replacement PCB was obtained, and the decision  of the contractor  not 
to charge any labour for fitting this, reflects some  sort of admittance  that the contractor did 
damage the PCB.
I have carefully considered Mr Ls comments in this regard. However, on balance I am not 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  to demonstrate that the PCB was damaged by 
IPAs contractor, either at the time that it attempted to fit the standard pump, or at any other  
time. I also note that although the contractors  job sheets have not been provided, IPA has 
forwarded its contractors  comments  about its handling of the claim. In the absence  of 
persuasive evidence  to indicate  the contractors negligence, it seems to me more likely that 
unfortunately the PCB failed by chance  around the same time that the pump  required 
replacement.
Ref: DRN70043873I would agree that the attempt to fit a standard pump appears to have been unnecessary.  
Overall, together  with the number of visits made  by IPAs  contractors,  I consider  that IPA 
could have handled the claim  better than it did. However, its compensation offer of £160 has 
reduced Mrs Ls own outlay for the claim to £157.60.  Like the investigator, I consider that this 
represents a fair way for IPA to have resolved this matter. I would also agree with the 
investigator that under the terms of the policy, IPA acted  reasonably  when it declined  to 
settle the claim by paying £250  of the boiler manufacturers quotation for carrying out the 
repairs. I am mindful that by the time Mrs L had suggested this possibility, IPAs  contractor 
had already obtained the replacement pump, and was collecting the replacement PCB.
I appreciate that Mrs L is likely to be disappointed  with my findings. However, my conclusion 
is that by offering £160 compensation to Mrs L, IPA has acted reasonably in relation  to its 
handling of her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7004387