K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) is recording 
arrears on his credit file even though he is maintaining the payment agreed  following the 
voluntary termination  of his hire purchase  agreement (HPA).
Background
Mr K entered into a HPA with VWFS  in 2015  to acquire a car. His circumstances changed 
and he was unable  to continue with the contractual payments and so he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement. There was a shortfall  amount which  he couldnt afford to pay 
within 14 days and he arranged a repayment plan of £60 a month.
Mr K says that VWFS has recorded  his account as being in arrears since the agreement was 
terminated. He says there was a period of four months when he didnt  make  payments while  
he was waiting for an agreement to be set up but that since  then he has made  the agreed 
monthly payments  on time. He says it isnt fair that his credit file shows missed or late 
payments each month when he is making the payment agreed under the payment plan.
Mr K wants  his credit file amended to show that he hasnt missed the payments and 
confirmation that no late or missed payments will be recorded while he continues  to make 
the agreed payments.
VWFS says that when  Mr K voluntarily terminated  his HPA, there was a shortfall. An 
arrangement was set up in April 2017,  under which Mr K would make a payment of £60 on 
the first of each month. It says that the contractual  monthly payment  amount under the HPA 
was for a higher amount than the payment  plan amount and so his credit  file shows his 
account as being in arrears and this will be the case until the voluntary termination shortfall 
is repaid.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that on a call, Mr K was told that his credit  file 
would show he had voluntarily come out of the agreement.  He was then told that late 
payments could be on his file for six years but there was no mention of any default being 
applied. He said that Mr K had agreed with VWFS  the monthly payment amount and that he 
has maintained  this. He didnt  think that the arrears should be recorded on his credit file.
VWFS didnt  agree with our adjudicators view. It said that Mr Ks agreement  set out that the 
full amount needed to be paid on termination and that when Mr K called to discuss this he 
said he could afford  this. It said Mr K returned  an income and expenditure form in April 2017 
following a five month gap when he had made  no payments and didnt make contact.
VWFS said that it was recording the information  on Mr Ks credit file correctly  as he hadnt 
paid the full voluntary termination  amount. It said it was supporting Mr K with a repayment  
plan.
Since the view was issued, VWFS  has offered to remove the adverse information from 
Mr Ks credit  file once the arrears have been  cleared.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN74534412Mr K was told that he could voluntarily  terminate his agreement at any time but he 
would need to pay half the amount payable under the HPA. The outstanding amount 
was provided to him and he was told that the shortfall could be repaid over time.  Mr K 
was also given other options for exiting his agreement.
Mr K was told that the agreement would be recorded as voluntarily  terminated  on his 
credit file and that there would be an outstanding balance  shown  and that late 
payments would be recorded for six years. 
The information on the telephone call could have  been clearer but I thought  that Mr K 
should have been  reasonably aware that if there was an outstanding balance  
following the voluntary termination would show on his credit  file.
VWFS said that it could have been clearer on the call with Mr K and offered to 
remove any adverse information  on Mr Ks credit file once the full amount of arrears 
has been cleared.  I found this reasonable.
No further evidence was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that Mr K was provided  with the information he needed  to be able to make  an informed 
decision about voluntarily  terminating his agreement.  The information could have been 
clearer on the call he had with VWFS although  I accept that he was provided with 
information about the process. 
VWFS has offered to remove  any adverse information on Mr Ks credit  file once the full 
amount of arrears has been cleared. I find this is reasonable and so I would expect this to be 
carried out once  the arrears  have been  cleared.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
offered, remove the adverse information  from Mr Ks credit  file once the arrears have been 
cleared.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7453441