K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about the total loss settlement Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited paid him when  he made a claim under  his car insurance policy.
background 
In April 2018 Mr A renewed his car insurance  policy with his insurer,  Markerstudy through  a 
broker.
In July 2018 he was unfortunately involved in an incident and made a claim. An engineer  
declared Mr As car a total loss. Mr A complained to Markerstudy that the settlement it paid 
him for his car was too low. Markerstudy had taken a 15% deduction because it said Mr A 
exceeded the yearly  mileage limit condition attached to his policy.  Mr A thought  this was 
unfair  and he was also unhappy that  despite  repeated requests  Markerstudy  didnt 
send him the evidence  it relied on to say hed exceeded the mileage  allowance.  
In September  2018 Markerstudy upheld  Mr As complaint in part. It had initially  offered Mr A 
a total loss settlement of £2,750. It agreed  this was too low. So for the inconvenience it had 
caused Mr A in having to contact it again, it paid him compensation of £50.
Markerstudy said it didnt make a deduction  from the total loss settlement  for excessive 
mileage. 
In October  2018 Mr A brought his complaint to us. In the meantime  in November 2018   
Markerstudy agreed that it had made a deduction  of 15% from the total loss settlement  as 
Mr A had claimed. Markerstudy apologised for the confusion it had caused.  But it said it was 
entitled to make the deduction in line with the policy terms. 
For the distress and inconvenience  Markerstudy had caused, it paid Mr A a further £150 
compensation. However, it said it had reached  its valuation in line with the policy.  So it said it 
wouldnt pay any more. 
In February 2019  Markerstudy sent Mr A a photo of the odometer  of his car. The mileage 
was the same as the mileage the engineer  reported in July 2018.
Our adjudicator thought that overall Markerstudy  had done  enough to resolve Mr As 
complaint. He thought Markerstudy should have provided the photo of the odometer  reading 
sooner. However,  it supported the mileage recorded in the engineers report  a few days  after 
the incident. And Markerstudy could have  decided to void the policy and not meet Mr As 
claim because  he had exceeded the mileage  allowance set under the policy.  But instead it 
made a deduction,  which  the adjudicator thought  was a fairer outcome.
For Markerstudys delay in providing the photo  and the confusion  it caused regarding the 
deduction from the total loss settlement, the adjudicator thought the compensation it had 
paid of £150 was reasonable to put things right. 
Mr A didnt agree. He believes the evidence Markerstudy has provided for the mileage of his 
car has been doctored. He says he didnt drive the number  of miles claimed between the 
date of the last MOT and the odometer reading. So he believes Markerstudys decision to 
reduce the total loss settlement for this reason is unfair. 
Ref: DRN79431122Mr A would like an ombudsman  to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
In April 2018 Mr As broker wrote to him to confirm  the renewal of his policy with 
Markerstudy. On page 2 it highlighted in bold and capital letters  the mileage restriction  under 
his policy. This was restricted to 5,000  miles as set out on the schedule  for the period of 
insurance. 
When Markerstudy assessed Mr As claim, it found  the recording  of the mileage  under  
Mr As car had already exceeded the yearly limit  using the MOT  history  from May 2018 
and the odometer reading provided  by the engineer in his report. 
The incident  happened  in July 2018. Mr A has provided a car park ticket to show his car was 
parked at an airport car park for one week between June 2018 and July 2018.  Mr A says he 
doesnt believe his car had accrued the number of miles showing on the odometer reading  
photo  which is the same figure  as the engineer relied on when writing his report. 
The engineer sent his report to Markerstudy on 11 July 2018.  The incident happened  on 4 
July 2018 and the date of the engineers  inspection was 5 July 2018.  
I understand how strongly Mr A feels that the evidence Markerstudy has relied  on isnt 
correct. But  as our adjudicator explained   its not our role to prove  what did or didnt 
happen. So my decision is based  on what I think  on balance  is most likely to have 
happened. 
I agree  that Markerstudy caused unnecessary delay in providing a photo  of the odometer 
reading to Mr A. I can see that he requested this for a number of months as he didnt agree 
with the engineers assessment. But the reading  in the photo  is the same  as the reading 
recorded by the engineer in his report,  which was just after the incident. 
From the MOT  history, the engineers report and the photo of the odometer reading, I think 
there was enough  information for Markerstudy to consider  whether  Mr A had exceeded the 
mileage allowance  under  his policy. 
Mr As policy  says that if he exceeds the mileage allowance, Markerstudy can decide  to void 
his policy. This means that Markerstudy would be entitled to reject  Mr As claim.
But it didnt do this. Instead, it took a deduction  of 15% from the total loss settlement. So I 
think this was a proportionate and reasonable approach for Markerstudy to take. 
We dont decide  a valuation. But weve checked  the main motor  trade  guides  and found that 
the starting valuation Markerstudy gave of £3,458 was within  the range of the guides.  So I 
think the final valuation  Markerstudy paid Mr A of £2,939.30 (after deducting 15%) was 
reached in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Its clear from the replies Markerstudy sent to Mr A in September  2018 that it incorrectly told 
him it hadnt taken  a deduction for excessive mileage  when it had. 
Ref: DRN79431123So I can understand why this caused Mr A additional distress and frustration. Markerstudy  
had told Mr A this is what it had done  in August 2018. And this was part of his complaint. 
So I think Markerstudys apology in November 2018  and compensation payment of £150 for 
its poor service is a fair outcome. 
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision.  But taking everything into account, I 
think Markerstudy has dealt with his claim reasonably  and its done enough to put things 
right for the errors it made. 
This means  I dont  think Markerstudy needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7943112