K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that theyve been paying for home insurance cover  from 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  when BG isnt able to provide the spare parts  needed to 
repair their boiler.
background
Mr and Mrs L have had a home insurance  policy with BG since  2009. As at their renewal in 
December 2017,  this was a Homecare  2 policy, the premium for which covered:  
An annual service
Repairs to their gas boiler  and controls including their thermostat and programmer
Repairs to their gas central  heating system including radiators and hot water cylinder
At their annual service  visit in October  2018,  BGs  engineer told Mr and Mrs L that their heat 
exchanger was leaking and needed  to be replaced, but this part was now obsolete.
Mr and Mrs Ls heating system was installed in 1989, so in 2018 the boiler was 29 years old. 
Theyd been told at a service visit in 2013 that some  parts for their boiler were now obsolete. 
Theyve said theyd phoned BG in 2013  to cancel their policy as they didnt think that it was 
worth insuring something that couldnt  be fixed because parts  were  no longer available.  They  
say they were encouraged by BG to keep the policy as it said it would still be able to get 
parts for their boiler without problem.
Following their service visit in 2018, Mr and Mrs L raised a complaint with BG. Having been  
told that their boiler was obsolete, they believe they shouldve been  told that parts  wouldnt 
be available.  Theyd continued to insure  with BG on the basis  that they would be. Mr and 
Mrs L feel that theyve  been  misled  by BG and have asked for a refund  of their annual  
premium from the time when their boiler became  obsolete.  
BG says it no longer  has any telephone  records going back  beyond 2016 so it cant  verify 
what Mr and Mrs L say they were told, but its said that even if Mr and Mrs L had been  told 
that parts would be available in the future, the availability of parts could well have changed 
since then.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy deals with the availability of spare parts as follows:
Spare parts
Well provide replacements with similar  functionality but not necessarily  the same  features  or 
an identical  make  and model or type of fitting..  Or you can give the engineer  a 
replacement part that youve bought yourself that we approve.  Well  try to get parts from the 
original manufacturer  or our approved suppliers. If we cant  get hold of the parts we need we 
may need to cancel  your agreement (or part of it) unless youre eligible for a replacement.  If 
weve agreed to cover  a boiler or appliance  but warned you that it might be difficult  to find 
spare parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
The policy also says:
Where you have Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover or Central Heating Breakdown 
Cover; and
 We cant  get hold of the parts  we need to fix your boiler and controls or central heating
Ref: DRN79635112 And, we havent told you before that we may not be able to find them
well refund any money you have paid for these products since  your last claim, up to
a maximum of three years.
BGs said that when  a boiler is on a reduced  parts list, this wouldnt mean that it would 
cancel the contract  as some parts would still be available. But in this situation it would advise 
a customer of this so they can make an informed decision about continuing their policy.  This 
advice would be on the checklist left with the customer after each annual  service visit.
BG says its records show that as far back as 2009, Mr and Mrs L were  advised that their 
boiler should be replaced. They  were  also informed in 2013  that some  parts  were  obsolete.  
So Mr and Mrs L were able to make an informed choice as to whether they continued the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy that BG rejected their request for a refund of their premiums  
going back to when their boiler became obsolete,  so they referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered their complaint  but came  to the view that BG hadnt 
done anything  wrong. Mr and Mrs L dont agree with our investigators assessment, and 
have asked that their complaint be considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore  been 
referred to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at their service  records going  back to 2009 and see from these that they were  
advised to replace their boiler in 2010  and again  in 2013. Ive also seen the Homecare 
service visit checklist  dated 18 December 2013. This states Boiler  last made on 1/12/2000. 
Some parts  are now obsolete. Low efficiency. The statements  All functioning parts 
available and Conforms to current safety standards  were  both ticked  No.
I think its clear  that Mr and Mrs L shouldve been aware  from 2013  that there was likely to 
be an increasing difficulty in getting  spare parts for their boiler because of its age. BG had 
specifically stated in the checklist from 2013  that not all functioning parts were available.  Mr 
and Mrs L say that this was when they contacted BG to cancel  their policy, but were 
encouraged not to do so. 
I dont think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs L, in 2018, to seek to rely on what they may have 
been told in 2013 about the continuing availability  of spare parts. Availability is only likely to 
have got worse since then. I think that from at least 2013 Mr and Mrs L shouldve  been in a 
position to make an informed decision as to whether their policy  was likely  to continue to 
provide good value.  They continued to have the benefit of that policy  and received service  
visits and replacement parts.
Although BG has the right to cancel a policy when it cant get hold of spare parts,  it isnt 
obliged to do so. It had continued  to supply spare  parts for their boiler at service  visits after 
2013. It also provided other services under the policy  which Mr and Mrs L mightve 
considered to be worth the premium.
Ref: DRN79635113In response to our investigators view, Mr L has said he was able to locate what  he says was 
a new branded heat exchanger, and doesnt understand why BG wasnt  able to do this. BG 
has explained that it only uses parts from its own suppliers to guarantee their authenticity  
and customer safety, although it will fit customer supplied  parts  if it approves them. I dont 
think BG can be considered to be acting unreasonably in taking  this position.
Mr and Mrs L also refer to an offer of £250  compensation they say BG made  to them  when 
they initially complained. BG says it doesnt  have any record  of any such  offer, and having  
looked through BGs complaint file, I cant see any reference to any such  offer either. As 
there isnt any evidence of it, I dont  think I can accept that BG made an offer. But even if it 
had, it wouldnt change  my decision,  as in my view BG is within the policy  terms.  
Mr and Mrs L also say that BG took two further instalments of premium until they cancelled  
their policy.  I dont  think BG has done anything wrong here, as it would have been up to Mr 
and Mrs L to first cancel the policy, and only after that should BG have stopped taking 
premium instalments. 
So my conclusion is that I dont think that BG has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
settling Mr and Mrs Ls complaint by a refund  of premiums. They appear to have benefitted 
fully from the policy  until the heat exchanger was identified as obsolete in October 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7963511