K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about Aviva Insurance  Limiteds handling of their buildings insurance 
complaint.
All references to Aviva  also include their agents.
background
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar  to both parties. This background is intended 
to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full timeline or list every 
point that has been made.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim for subsidence  in 2012 as they noticed damage  to their property 
 including  to the main  property, retaining  walls and steps. Aviva declined  the claim, saying 
they didnt find any evidence of subsidence, or any insured event, when they inspected Mr 
and Mrs Bs property.
They said the damage to the rear lower retaining walls and steps was due to lateral 
movement of the walls and steps  exacerbated by poor design.  
Following this Mr and Mrs B appointed their own independent structural engineer.  
After inspecting the property, Mr and Mrs Bs structural engineer advised more drainage 
holes in the retaining wall were  needed  to relieve  the build-up  of pressure and mitigate  
further movement. Mr and Mrs B feel Aviva should have advised them of this in 2012. 
Mr and Mrs B believe if the original claim had been investigated properly then the damage  
would not have been as extensive.
Mr and Mrs B continued to experience further issues. They reported this to Aviva,  who 
initiated another claim in 2016.  Since this time, Mr and Mrs B say the complaint has often  
been slow to progress,  and have raised other  concerns which  include,  but are not limited to:
Aviva  told them  the house had a historical  subsidence claim, but theyve been unable  
to provide them any further  detail
Mr and Mrs B have  been charged  two excesses  one for an escape of water claim 
and one for subsidence. Mr and Mrs B believe they should only be paying one 
excess
Aviva  wouldnt use Mr and Mrs Bs structural engineer when they brought the claim 
back to Aviva in 2016. Aviva  appointed  their own engineer. Mr and Mrs B were 
unhappy that Avivas  engineer didnt reach any conclusions and for a long period, 
their claim didnt  progress
Aviva  appointed a contractor to assist in lifting Mr and Mrs Bs decking so drainage 
investigations could  be carried out. Mr and Mrs B said the decking was poorly  treated 
by the contractors and wasnt put back properly 
New rainwater drains have been installed but they have concerns with the way 
theyve been fitted  as they dont  believe  them to be fit for purpose
They are unhappy theyve not been  provided reports and data theyve requested
Ref: DRN74609182They repeatedly  received  a lack of communication from Aviva due to representatives 
leaving or their claim being reassigned to new adjusters.  This has caused further 
delays
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Aviva. They werent satisfied with their response,  so 
they brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended we uphold the complaint. To put things  right he 
recommended Aviva:
Offer  Mr and Mrs B a choice of three  different independent engineers  to choose from. 
The engineer  would  then carry out investigations  to determine all causes of 
movement, and produce a report recommending the next steps in the claim. Aviva 
should then implement the recommendations from the independent  engineer
Arrange a geotechnical investigation,  to report on the stability of the slope with any 
proposed repairs  for the retaining  wall and to the main  property
Provide Mr and Mrs B with all the monitoring data and reports compiled so far
Reimburse the costs that Mr and Mrs B have paid for their structural engineer
Remove any escape of water  claim record from all internal and external insurance 
databases
Refund the escape of water excess to Mr and Mrs B if this has been paid, plus 8% 
simple interest on this sum from the date of payment to the date of the complaint 
settlement
Treat this claim as a continuation of the claim in 2012, and amend any relevant 
records on internal  and external insurance  databases
Revise the premium for Mr and Mrs B, and ensure that this has been rated only on 
the claim from 2012, and not the second  claim from 2016 or any other previous 
subsidence claims 
If a partial refund  is due, our investigator  added this sum should be paid to 
Mr and Mrs B along with 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
the complaint  settlement
Pay Mr and Mrs B £2,500 compensation for the inconvenience they have 
experienced
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the matter.
Further Developments
Ref: DRN74609183I contacted Aviva with my initial thoughts  on 2 February 2021. I said while  Aviva had 
considered whether the wall was defective in 2012, they hadnt provided any supporting  
evidence to show what requirements the wall failed to meet  and how it shouldve been 
built. Without this information I wasnt persuaded it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the 
claim in 2012.
I also said that, although Aviva said there wasnt anything untoward in terms of subsidence 
to the house based  on level monitoring, they hadnt provided any further  explanation  or 
supporting information.  Because  of this, I said I was intending to direct Aviva  to offer 
Mr and Mrs B a choice of three different engineers  to carry out appropriate investigations 
and produce a report recommending the next steps in the claim  and determine all causes  
of movement. Aviva would then need  to implement these recommendations.
Aviva agreed they should follow the recommendation of an independent  engineer  and offer 
Mr and Mrs B a choice of three to choose  from.  They said the retaining wall should  be 
included in the report. However, they did not comment on the other  points our investigator 
recommended to put things right. So now Ive considered this matter in a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs B have  strong  views about  what has happened,  and they have 
provided several submissions to support their complaint. I want  to assure  them Ive read and 
considered all of these carefully.  
However, I hope Mr and Mrs B wont take the fact my findings  focus  on what I consider  to be 
the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose  of my 
decision isnt to address  every single point the parties have raised or to answer  every  
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs B, and by 
Aviva, and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
Having done so, I am upholding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Subsidence Claim in 2012
When Aviva  wrote to Mr and Mrs B in July 2012, they said:  
the damage to the rear lower retaining walls and steps is historic in nature and is due to 
lateral movement of the walls and steps  exacerbated  by poor design. You confirmed that the 
decking was installed  in 2003,  and measurements  confirm that this is level and the posts are 
vertical. If there had been recent movement  of the retaining wall you would expect to see 
corresponding movement  to the deck.  I recommend that you engage the services  of a 
Chartered Structural Engineer to assess  the condition of the retaining wall and steps and 
provide repair  solutions.  In regard to the minor  cracking to the rear elevation of the property, 
I note that these areas were monitored in 1996  prior to your purchase.  The monitoring 
readings show insignificant movement and the conclusion at the time is that there is an 
element of thermal movement to the wall. I agree that the cracking  may be due to thermal
movement and recommend that the cracks are repaired. The cracking  is not due to
subsidence as this wall has been  previously underpinned and buttressed  due to
Ref: DRN74609184subsidence. Internally  there is cosmetic cracking  to the sitting  room  rear wall which is
due to deterioration of the plaster. I recommend that the cracks  are repaired.
But in a report issued  by Aviva in 2018, they said:
(following a visit from Mr and Mrs Bs structural engineer) he also noted  cracking  to the rear 
right hand  corner of the house and was concerned  that there was also subsidence  affecting  
the main house.  Consequently, a further  claim was submitted in 2016.  Liability was initially 
deferred pending site investigations however,  it was subsequently concluded that there was 
some minor subsidence of the house  due to water  leaking from the rainwater gully on the 
rear right hand corner and a valid claim  was accepted in respect  of the house.  Liability was 
declined in respect of the garden retaining walls.
During the repair of the drainage to the rear right hand corner, it was subsequently found
that the drain discharged  adjacent to the left-hand  retaining wall and as such it was
concluded that this was a primary  cause of the retaining wall failure. Consequently a
second claim has been accepted in respect  of the retaining wall. Following the repair  of the 
drains, there  has been little progress and therefore  a re-visit was arranged.
Based on these findings and that of Mr and Mrs Bs structural engineer,  Im not persuaded 
the issues with the retaining wall were  fully considered by Aviva  during the 2012 claim. So I 
think because of this it caused delays in the correct issues being identified  and wouldve 
resulted in its condition  worsening.
Aviva said the design of the wall was insufficient and the damage  historic. But Aviva  havent 
provided any supporting  evidence  to show what requirements the wall failed to meet   and 
how it shouldve been built.  There is also no reference to drains or rainwater gullies from the 
time. 
So Im not satisfied Aviva investigated the claim fully in 2012  and my decision remains that 
Im not persuaded it was reasonable for them to decline the claim. Because  of this its 
reasonable the claim from March 2016  should  be treated as a continuation of the claim  
and not a second claim.
Policy Excesses
Mr and Mrs B have  also been given two policy  excesses for the 2016 claim. One for escape 
of water for collapsed drains and damage to the retaining walls  (£250),  and an excess  for 
subsidence to their home (£1,000). Having reviewed  the information available  to me, Im not 
persuaded this is reasonable.  Avivas  report from October 2018 said the rainwater gully on 
the right-hand  corner at the rear of the property had leaked and caused minor  movement  the 
main property. It also reported the right rainwater gully had collapsed  in several locations  
and that resulting water from the leaking drains  may have  caused further movement  to the 
retaining walls. Further inspections have  taken place since, but Ive not seen anything  from 
this information  to persuade me there are two clear separate causes of movement and 
damage. 
Because of this, I think it is reasonable Aviva remove the excess for the escape of water. 
Historical Subsidence  Claims
Ref: DRN74609185I can also see Aviva told Mr and Mrs B there  is history of a previous  subsidence  claim where 
underpinning took place,  which  has been  referenced in their letter  in July 2012. Aviva hasnt 
provided evidence  of this. So, I dont think its reasonable for Aviva  to consider 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy rating on any historic case of subsidence.
Mr and Mrs Bs Structural Engineer
Its reasonable for Aviva to use their own contractors and experts when considering  a claim.  
So I dont  think they were obligated to use Mr and Mrs Bs structural  engineer.  But having 
considered the comments and information provided  to Mr and Mrs B by their engineer  
throughout the claim, I think  his contribution has helped in the progression  of the complaint 
(as well as identifying  the issue  of the 2012 claim and whether it had been investigated fully). 
Because of this I think the costs Mr and Mrs B have incurred should be met by Aviva  on 
production of receipts or invoices.
Ongoing Concerns
Aviva have already  proposed repairs to the retaining wall  and they have carried out further 
monitoring since around October 2018 for the main property to decide  if this has stabilized.  
Aviva said the data shows there isnt a connection between  the movement of the main
property and retaining wall - and there wasnt anything untoward  in terms of subsidence to 
the main property showing based  on the data. But they havent provided any further  
explanation or supporting information regarding this  and Mr and Mrs B have  said they have 
been unable  to obtain updates about what the data shows from Aviva.  
Id reasonably expect  Aviva to report on all potential causes of movement, particularly if 
there is no connection between the movement of the property and retaining wall. So I still 
dont think Aviva has gone far enough  in terms of investigations for all causes of movement.
So my decision remains that I think it would be reasonable  for Aviva to appoint  an 
independent engineer. Aviva should offer Mr and Mrs B a choice of three different 
independent engineers, for them to choose  from. 
The independent engineer should then be able to carry out the appropriate investigations to 
determine all causes  of movement and the engineer  should produce a report recommending 
the next steps in the claim. Aviva would then need to implement these recommendations.
Mr and Mrs Bs engineer has said that while the proposed repairs should be satisfactory, the 
success of the proposed  repairs  would depend  on a geotechnical  Investigation of the 
existing ground  which  would include slope stability analysis.
The photos  of the property show it is based  on a very steep slope.  In deciding what  repairs  
should be carried out to ensure theyre lasting and effective, reasonable consideration 
should be given  to what impact they would have on the stability  of the slope, and if there 
would be any other consequential impact. I havent  seen  anything that persuades  me Aviva 
has considered  this, but I think  this would be a reasonable investigation in the circumstances 
to ensure lasting  and effective repairs are completed.
Workmanship
Ref: DRN74609186Mr and Mrs B said when  Aviva carried out drain investigations, their contractor treated the 
decking carelessly and did not use decking nails to put the planks back. Mr and Mrs B were  
told they would be put back correctly later, but this was never done. After  this had been 
raised by Mr and Mrs B, another contractor  was later sent by Aviva who rectified the issue 
and replaced the nails properly.
Im pleased to see Aviva  acknowledged this issue and apologised  to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B have  also provided photos of Avivas installation of new rainwater drains. 
Mr and Mrs B are concerned  these werent secured properly and would be disturbed again  
when further repairs are carried out. 
Aviva said this would be taken into account  in the settlement  of the claim. But from observing  
the photos I can see why Mr and Mrs B have concerns. For example, a cap on the end of 
one of the drains under the decking appears to have come  loose  and looks  to be propped  up 
by some mortar.
The drain end also appears to be made of a material similar to chipboard   I cant  see 
anything that addresses  why this was used, or to persuade me this wasnt a satisfactory 
measure, but I can appreciate from the photos  why Mr and Mrs B would have concerns with 
the workmanship.
Other Issues
Subsidence claims by nature can be complex and a lengthy process,  but while some 
inconvenience is expected, I do think in this case there have been avoidable delays and 
times where  Aviva couldve  done  more - or acted faster.  
Aside from the potential  delays caused by Aviva  not fully investigating the claim in 2012 this 
has also included several other instances of a lack of communication, issues with the way 
the claim has been handled  and examples  of poor workmanship. 
Considering everything  Ive outlined above I do think there has been a significant impact on 
Mr and Mrs B. So, I think Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs B £2,500  compensation as I think  
this fairly  reflects the distress and inconvenience  theyve been  caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited to:
Offer  Mr and Mrs B a choice of three  different independent engineers  to carry out 
appropriate investigations, produce a report recommending the next steps in the 
claim and determine all causes of movement. Aviva would  then need to implement 
these recommendations
Instruct a geotechnical survey to assess the stability of the slope and the impact any 
proposed repairs  may have on it. Aviva should  then take the results of the survey into 
consideration when ensuring any repairs are lasting and effective
Provide Mr and Mrs B with the monitoring data carried  out at their property
Ref: DRN74609187Reimburse costs  Mr and Mrs B have incurred for the involvement  of their structural 
engineer  on production of evidence of costs, such as receipts or invoices
Treat the claim as a continuation of the 2012  claim  and amend all relevant internal  
and external records and databases
Refund the excess fee paid for an escape of water claim and remove  the record  from 
all internal and external  insurance  databases, and pay 8% simple interest on this 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Revise Mr and Mrs Bs premium  to ensure it reflects only a claim from 2012  and not 
a historical subsidence claim or further claim  from 2016 
If a partial premium refund is due to Mr and Mrs B, the sum should be paid with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement1
Pay Mr and Mrs B £2,500 compensation 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2021.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
1 If Aviva  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7460918