K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) said it would deduct an excess  of £50 for 
both himself and his wife when  he made a cancellation claim in his sole name under his 
travel insurance policy.
background
Mr H has travel insurance with UKI, linked to the bank account he holds jointly  with his wife, 
Mrs H. 
Mr H fell ill and had to cancel a holiday,  which included  a Eurotunnel booking for his car and 
caravan. He managed to cancel the other elements  of the holiday without charge, but he 
made a claim to UKI for the non-refundable Eurotunnel booking. UKI said it would pay the 
claim, but that it would  deduct a £50 policy excess for both Mr H and Mrs H, who had also 
been due to travel. Mr H didnt think UKI could  properly deduct two policy  excesses. 
Our adjudicator thought UKI was entitled to deduct two policy excesses, under the policy 
terms. Mr H didnt agree so the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
I need to decide whether UKI acted fairly when it said it would deduct two policy excesses 
from Mr Hs claim. The starting point is the policy, and Ill summarise the key parts  here:
The policy covers eligible account  holders.  The insurance allows  the eligible account 
holders and their partners to travel independently  of each other throughout  the year. 
Under the cancellation section the policy says that UKI will reimburse up to £5,000 
per insured person  for journey deposits or costs  which cant be recovered 
elsewhere, when  the insured person cant travel due to illness or where their 
travelling companion is ill. The cancellation claims settlement section says that UKI 
will deduct an excess of £50 per insured  person , with two exceptions  that arent  
relevant here. 
The policy defines Excess as An amount we will deduct from a claim. The amount 
is payable per insured  person claiming,  per claim registered. Where  a single incident 
gives rise to a claim under two or more sections of cover,  only one excess will be 
payable per insured  person.
Mr H has made a number of points about  his claim. He says, in summary:
He paid for the Eurotunnel booking for his vehicle and caravan. The booking  does 
not name any passengers because that doesnt matter to Eurotunnel  as the booking 
is for the vehicle and caravan. He needed to tell Eurotunnel the passengers names 
and passport number  before travelling.
We seem to be saying that the assumption that his wife would be the second  
passenger entitles UK to deduct  an extra £50 excess. Were saying that if she wasnt 
travelling then it could  deduct only one excess. 
Only he is claiming,  and the policy  wording  is quite  specific that the excess  is the 
amount payable per insured  person  claiming  (his emphasis).
Ref: DRN70172382He paid for the booking, from a bank account funded by his pension.  Both the car 
and the caravan are owned  by him, in his name.  He is the only person claiming. It is 
his loss, not Mrs Hs loss. 
I can see the point  Mr H is making. But he told UKI that both he and Mrs H were  due to 
travel. So they both had to cancel their trip, because of Mr Hs illness. They were both 
insured under the policy. Mrs H was covered for a cancellation claim, where she couldnt  
travel because her travelling companion fell ill. 
Mr H says that he was the only person claiming.  But I think it was reasonable for UKI to treat 
this as a claim for both him and Mrs H as they were both insured persons under the policy 
terms, and would both have travelled but for Mr Hs illness. 
Mr H points out that he paid for Eurotunnel  booking, from an account  funded  by his pension, 
and so it was solely  his loss. He says Mrs H didnt  suffer a loss because  she didnt pay for 
the Eurotunnel booking  and that is why it was his sole claim.
I can see the point  Mr H is making. But I dont think I can fairly  say that UKI must deduct only 
one excess in his case. Its not unusual for one person in a couple to make the payment for 
joint holidays. I think UKI made a fair decision  when  it said it would deduct two policy  
excesses from the claim. Put another way, I dont think  its fair to require UKI to deduct only 
one excess because one insured person in a couple has paid for the booking,  where  both 
insured persons have had to cancel  their holiday due to one of them falling ill. 
Theres no dispute that Mr H made  a valid claim,  so if he would like UKI now to pay the claim 
with the deduction of two excesses then he should let it know.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7017238