K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside two credit cards. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
After considering all of the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
Mrs D told us that PPI was sold to her in 1996. I can see that she applied for two credit cards  
at the same  time. Looking at the date those accounts were opened, I think she probably 
bought the PPI at the same time as she applied for the cards.  She also told us that the 
policies were sold during  a meeting  she had with Lloyds. I cant  know  what was said during 
that meeting.  So to help me decide whats likely  to have happened,  Ive looked at what  
Mrs D told us about it. And Ive also considered what  we know about  the way Lloyds sold 
PPI at that time.  
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs D would have known that PPI was optional  
and she didnt have  to take it out if she didnt want it. I think  that when she applied for her 
credit cards, Mrs D would have had to actively select that she wanted a policy.  As shed 
have had to make a choice, I think it would have been clear  that she didnt have to buy this 
policy if she didnt want it. Lloyds also sent Mrs Ds credit  card statements to us. I can see 
that the PPI premiums appeared on her statements every month. And I think  that shed have 
queried what those  payments were for if she didnt know she had a policy.  
Lloyds treated this as an advised sale. In that case, they had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs Ds needs.  To help me decide whether it was suitable,  Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also considered what Mrs D told us about her 
personal circumstances at that time.  
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the PPI, 10% of her credit card balance  would 
have been repaid for up to 12 months  for each claim. Mrs D told us that she would have 
received six months  full pay and six months  half pay from her employer if she became 
unwell. It follows that I think the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than 
her sick pay. 
Mrs D told us that she was in good health when she bought these policies. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the exclusions we usually see about medical conditions. 
And I havent seen  anything unusual about her employment  circumstances  that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to. Mrs D also told us that she 
Ref: DRN70237352didnt have any other means  of making repayments towards her credit cards  if she was out 
of work. And so it follows  that I think the cover probably was suitable for her. 
Lloyds still had to give Mrs D enough information  about the PPI so she could  decide  for 
herself whether  it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be fair, clear  and not 
misleading. It is of course possible  that Lloyds didnt tell Mrs D everything it should have 
done when it sold these policies. But I dont think more or better information would have put 
Mrs D off buying a policy.  I say this because I think  she probably  chose  to buy PPI at the 
time, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And Ive set out above how I think the 
policy might  have been helpful  if she was out of work.  
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs D, but I havent upheld her complaint and I dont need to ask Lloyds to take 
any further action.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7023735