K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003 alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they were completely unaware  they had PPI with their mortgage.  
Nationwide has given  me a number of documents from the time of the sale.  Looking at a 
copy of the mortgage application, this had a separate section for PPI. This confirmed Mr and 
Mrs T had selected PPI to cover  Mr T only if he became unemployed. Mr and Mrs T signed 
this document  to confirm they agreed  to its contents. They also completed a separate PPI 
application form which went through Mr Ts circumstances.  In this, they ticked  to select 
unemployment cover  only for Mr T and they again signed the document to agree to its 
contents. 
The mortgage offer also set out that Mr and Mrs T had decided to take out PPI and it 
included a breakdown of the cover selected. So, considering everything, I think Nationwide  
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if the policy  
was right for Mr T. But it did have  to make sure they got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. 
The policy couldve  covered  Mr T for up to 12 months per claim if he was made redundant. 
This meant he could  use any savings  he had on other essential expenditure if he had to 
make a claim. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs T off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about the commission Mr and Mrs T paid on their PPI  and whether Nationwide 
treated them  unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ts PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ts commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
Ref: DRN78294332the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs T back any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7829433