K821x#15Complaint
Mr M says Abana Unipessoal  Lda (Abana) gave him unsuitable advice  about  switching his 
personal pension  funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension with unregulated investments, 
which caused him to suffer a financial loss.
background
Mr M knew Mr F through  a friend.  Many  years earlier theyd discussed his occupational 
pension and Mr F had advised him to stay with that scheme because the benefits were very 
good and unlikely to be bettered through a transfer.
Years later,  in 2013 Mr M approached Mr F for advice about his two Scottish  Widows  
personal pension  plans. At that time Mr F represented himself as being associated with 
Abana. Mr M says Mr F went through all his documentation  and told him his funds could be 
placed in a low risk, low cost fund and generate a modest increase in his pot compared  to 
what he was achieving  with through his existing personal pension  provider.
Ill set out more fully the individuals and organisations involved in what  happened to Mr M 
later in this decision.  But ultimately  Mr M was persuaded  to switch his personal  pensions into 
a Self-invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) with Westerby  Trustee Services Limited  
(Westerby).
Mr M switched nearly £74,000 from his Scottish Widows plans into the SIPP. He took about 
£18,000 in tax-free cash (TFC). And around £52,000  was invested through a business called 
ePortfolio Solutions. Two unregulated vehicles  accounted for 80% of this investment - the 
Brighton SPC - Kijani Commodity  Fund  (Kijani)  and the Swiss  Asset  Micro Assist Inc Fund  
(SAMAIF). The balance was placed  in the TCA Global  Credit and Montello Real Estate 
Opportunity funds.
Abana wrote to Mr M in June 2015 to let him know that it had recently become aware that it 
hadnt been authorised  to give him the investment advice it had done when making 
arrangements for his SIPP.  This obviously gave Mr M cause for concern.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) engaged  with Abana when it became aware the firm 
may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At the relevant time, Abana 
was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the insurance  mediation 
directive (IMD). However,  it appeared to be providing services in the UK, namely  giving 
advice and making arrangements in relation to pensions, without the top-up permissions it 
required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether it had been suitable, and if it hadnt 
been to assess  any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy  service specialising  in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
In October  2015, Mr M was asked by the independent consultancy to provide information 
about the events leading  up to the switch of his pension funds. Following his submissions, it 
wrote to him in January  2016 with its conclusions. It said the advice hed been  given to 
establish the SIPP and invest in unregulated funds had been unsuitable. It noted an agent of 
Abana  Mr F - had been responsible. 
Ref: DRN72897722The consultancy set out what steps  Abana should take to put Mr M back into the position he 
wouldve been in had the switch not taken place.  In June 2016  it quantified  the redress  
Abana would  need to make. Fortunately, his loss had been  mitigated to some degree  
because Westerby had been able to redeem around  £30,000 from his investments.
Mr M says Abana assured  him it would settle the redress.  It had referred matters to its 
professional indemnity insurer. But Mr M brought his complaint to us in May 2017  because 
despite confirmation that hed been  given unsuitable advice and having been awarded  
compensation, Abana had still failed  to pay him back.
Abana eventually  changed its position on the payment of redress  and argued it wasnt 
responsible for what had happened.  Abana submits that Mr F who carried  out the transaction  
with Mr M wasnt its appointed representative  (AR),  or its agent.  So Abana  says its not 
responsible for the acts or omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction to consider  
Mr Ms complaint against it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mr Ms complaint. And after considering 
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service at various points in time over the past few years.
Abana argues that Westerby, as the SIPP provider, was regulated  and allegedly  accepted  
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. Westerby had a responsibility to carry out due diligence.  Abana says Westerby 
was the business that had the relationship  with Mr F. So, it thinks  Westerby  should be 
answerable for what happened to Mr M.
Abana also questions why another  SIPP provider Mr F had dealings with agreed new terms 
of business with the entities New Beginnings Ltd and [Mr F] Associates, suggesting it was 
because the clients  its being held accountable to werent meant to be added to its agency.  It 
has suggested collusion  between  Mr F and that SIPP  provider, resulting in the complaints  it 
now faces.
Abana has said the same SIPP provider gave false information to the specialist compliance 
consultancy which was commissioned  to look into the advice Abana  had given various  
clients. It says that consultancy was negligent in how it conducted the reviews. Further, it 
cites a fund management company as having responsibility for the SIPP investments. And it 
questions actions taken  by the FCA in 2015 which it says couldve had a material  impact on 
the losses of some  complainants.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated and 
unregulated firms and individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties 
here. Mr M has brought  his complaint against Abana and thats what  I need  to address.
We cant join third parties to a complaint to help shed light on whats happened in a case.  
Whilst we do have  powers to require parties  to a complaint to provide information to us, we 
cant compel anyone  who isnt a party to the complaint to provide evidence.
Abana will be aware, a court does have  powers to compel third parties to give evidence and 
to be cross  examined. Its free to pursue  other parties it feels  may have been  responsible to 
whatever degree  for whats happened  to Mr M and for exposing  it to any claims and costs  
that it now faces. But thats  not something this Service can help with.
Ref: DRN72897723Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with Westerby  and Mr F in May 2013,  it was 
told some  SIPP products were insurance based  and therefore compliant  under IMD 
permissions. It seems  to be saying it was misled  by other parties  into thinking it could carry 
on the activities that are the subject of this complaint. Whatever the case,  as a regulated firm 
its responsible for its own regulatory  compliance and its own acts and omissions.
Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  In relation to other  cases it said recently that this Service  hadnt asked it 
for information. Im afraid that position isnt credible.
The cases  Ive seen  have  been ongoing  now for many years. Abana has been asked for the 
information it holds  in relation to these complaints. For example, the following is an extract 
from a letter  this Service sent to it in May 2017  about Mr Ms complaint:
what you need  to do now
So we can consider the complaint, we need you to send us:
-your comments on the complaint
-any supporting documentation you want us to take into account
-the name  of your professional indemnity insurers,  if you will be involving them  in this 
case
For portfolio management  cases,  please also send us:
-the account opening documentation  including all signed  agreements
-valuations  for the period complained about  (or a snapshot if the period  covers many 
years)
-any transcriptions/tape recordings or contemporaneous notes where a claim is reliant on 
a specific conversation
Im satisfied Abana has had ample  opportunity to make  its case.
Abana has offered arguments  in support of its position at various  points over the past few 
years, and more  recently in response to our investigators opinions and some  decisions this 
Service has already  issued.
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the arguments Abana has posed. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. And I wont be commenting further on decisions that have already been 
issued  those  cases are now closed and Abana  must adhere to any requirements placed  on 
it.
While Ive taken account and considered all Abanas  submissions, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. That means the 
arguments Abana has made, including its most recent submissions to this Service on this 
case, where these  are material to my consideration and the outcome reached,  are 
addressed as appropriate in this decision.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case.
my findings
the parties involved in this case
Ref: DRN72897724Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint against  
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by Westerby, the provider of 
Mr Ms SIPP scheme. And these documents have been used to help us build a picture  of the 
key relationships between the various parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA authorised firm.
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. As Ill set out later in this decision,  its Mr F who 
provided Mr M with advice about switching his personal pensions and arranged for the funds 
to be switched to the SIPP with Westerby (and to invest in the unregulated Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds).  One of the matters I will need to establish is whether in conducting those 
activities, Mr F was acting  on behalf of Abana (either as its AR or its agent).
Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
Ref: DRN72897725New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
Weve been provided with a copy of the AR agreement between Abana  and New 
Beginnings. The recitals  of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the Schedule referred to in the agreement.
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
Mr F told another SIPP provider he had dealings with - Avalon Investment Services Limited 
(Avalon) - that he was in the process of getting  his own FCA authorisation (he had previously 
been submitting  business to Avalon using Abanas authorisation number). He made an 
application for new terms of business on 28 May 2014 and this was acknowledged  by 
Avalon, which  at that point noted internally  his intention to leave Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  
ensuring appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were in the 
process of agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN72897726Westerby Trustee Services Limited  (Westerby)
Westerby is a UK based  SIPP provider and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Westerby  is 
and was at the time of the complaint authorised,  in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments, deal in investments  as principal, establish, operate  and wind up 
a pension scheme and make  arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments.
A Westerby SIPP was used to make  the unregulated investments that Mr M is unhappy 
about.
Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was also a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the FCA. 
Amongst other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals in investments and to establish,  
operate and wind up a pension scheme. Mr F also provided advice and made arrangements 
for clients he introduced  to this firm.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently considering claims 
against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mr Ms complaint against Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mr M complains done  in the carrying on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana, responsible  for those acts?
Ref: DRN72897727were the acts Mr M complained  about  done  in carrying on a regulated  activity?
Mr M has complained about Abanas role in him receiving unsuitable pension and 
investment advice. And the subsequent arrangements made on his behalf to switch  his 
personal pension  funds to a SIPP with Westerby and make investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. Mr M says he hasnt  been  compensated  despite  previous assurances he 
would be.
Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity. Abana has provided an interpretation of an exchange it had with the FCA 
in 2015 as an argument why the activity it was involved  in wasnt regulated.  Ill provide my 
thoughts on its argument later in this decision.
Weve not been provided  with a fact find, risk appetite assessment, suitability report  or 
recommendation letter  all we have is the testimony from Mr M about what Mr F told him 
during their discussions.
Nevertheless, I think its highly unlikely Mr M wouldve embarked on a high-risk  investment 
strategy using his personal pension provisions without this course  of action being 
recommended to him. Mr M had built up his funds over many years. It seems more  likely 
than not he received advice that motivated him to make the switch.
Im satisfied Mr F gave advice to Mr M to switch his personal pension plans and invest 
through a SIPP  with Westerby.  I believe Mr F told Mr M that the unregulated investments 
would perform better than his existing plans. I think Mr M trusted the assurances  he got 
about the safety of the funds, which is why he was persuaded to make the switch.
In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
Ref: DRN72897728The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr Fs details, including his signature  were  included on Mr Ms ePortfolio Solutions  
application. And both this and his SIPP application  had Abanas details on. He transmitted 
the applications and Westerby dealt with him as the key contact. Mr F led it to believe that he 
was introducing business with Abanas authority.
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights).
Mr F transmitted the authorised paperwork to Westerby  which  facilitated Mr M opening the 
SIPP and the investment  in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this constitutes the 
regulated activity of arranging  the pension scheme  with Westerby. And, Im satisfied that the 
actions of Mr F constitute making  arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment  under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the activities  outside  the scope of 
Article 25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr F was an 
unauthorised arranger.
Even if I was to accept  Abanas point about  Mr Fs status, for the exclusion at article 29 to 
apply, its necessary that, in return for making  the arrangements,  Mr F didnt receive from 
any person - other  than Mr M  payment or other reward arising out of their making the 
arrangements. 
In a recent  submission, Abana said Mr F received payment at the clients  request, direct from 
the assets of the Trust overseeing the pension fund.  It also said this wasnt commission.  But 
I think the actual  arrangement was supposed to work along  the lines set out in the AR 
agreement between Mr F and Abana. For example, at paragraphs 5 of that document  it 
says:
Ref: DRN72897729The Company will pay the AR 100%  of the Commission  to which  the AR becomes entitled  
as a result  of the Activities. 
The agreement goes  on to make further provision  for its control and adjustment  of payments 
made. The commission/introducer fees were  meant  to flow from the funds injected into the 
pension fund with the SIPP provider, from it to Abana  and to Mr F. So, the exclusion at 
article 29 doesnt apply.
Abana has asked  for evidence of the payments it received via another SIPP  provider in 
relation to the arrangement of certain other SIPPs. It should have a full record of all the 
payments it received in relation to Mr Fs activities, including  where he was dealing with 
Westerby.
Ive seen a letter from Abana to Westerby dated 17 May 2013  about the transfer  of clients  
from another advisory firm. It requests  that these clients are held in a new sub-agency for 
identification purposes and directs  that all commission  payments under this sub-agency be 
paid to a particular account. That account  was in the name of Mr F.
The advice and arrangements to switch  Mr Ms personal pensions  into the Westerby SIPP  
happened in July 2013. A 3% adviser  charge was made and this appears to have  been  
executed in keeping with the arrangements agreed  between Abana and Westerby.
A further  letter from Abana to Westerby dated 18 November 2013  advised changes to its 
bank details for commission payments. It confirmed new bank account details for its ARs 
and sub-agents. This again included Mr F, but with different account details.
In any case, in relation to the arguments  around  article 29, as Ill set out later in this decision,  
Im satisfied Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana. So, Abana is the authorised person 
here. And its arguments are not telling.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  Asset Management International 
(AMI) was a non-regulated fund management  organisation  that was associated  with e-
Portfolio Solutions.
But Ive seen no evidence  that Mr F, Westerby or anyone else were introducing  Mr M to an 
appropriate party under  the provision it references.  I think, Mr F on behalf of Abana, made 
the introduction  to Westerby  as an authorised person. But this wasnt for the purpose for it to 
provide independent  advice or the independent  exercise of discretion in relation to 
investments generally  or in relation to any class  of investments to which the arrangements 
relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 doesnt  apply.
Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities  giving advice on switching  from 
personal pension  plans to a SIPP with Westerby and investing in unregulated funds and 
making arrangements to give effect to these  matters.
was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr F. As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says (bolding is my emphasis):
Ref: DRN728977210complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  given and the arrangements  made by Mr F.
The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So, in the alternative, I will need to consider whether Mr F was acting  as 
Abanas agent in relation to the acts complained about, and whether its therefore 
responsible for Mr Ms complaint on that basis.
Ref: DRN728977211Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Ref: DRN728977212Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so doing  the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr F (the 
agent) to act on its behalf in relation to conducting the activities Mr M has complained about. 
And whether this was done with the express  or implied agreement of Abana  (actual  
authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mr M relied on a representation made by Abana  
(or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr F had its authority to carry out the acts 
complained about.
The advice given  and the arrangements made  by Mr F
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mr M were either (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
The advice given  and the arrangements made  for the switch  of Mr Ms personal  pensions, 
including the authorisation and transmission of his application for a SIPP with Westerby  and 
his application  to ePortfolio Solutions, and effecting  the investment in unregulated funds, 
were dealt with by Mr F. Westerby relied  on the authority it understood him to have in these 
matters.
So, having  reviewed the evidence, I think the advice and arrangements in Mr Ms 
introduction to Westerby were conducted  by Mr F on behalf of Abana because:
-The main elements of the transaction happened in July 2013  this is before he told 
another SIPP provider he was leaving Abana and provided new terms of business  for 
it at the end of May 2014. Before  this Mr F had been  submitting business to SIPP 
providers in his capacity as an agent  of Abana and using  that firms authorisation 
details.
-Further, where Mr Ms application  paperwork required identification  of the Financial 
Adviser Firm Name,  Mr F filled this in with Abana Lda. And he provided its FCA firm 
reference number  on the associated documents. Mr F signed to this effect  as 
required, including other paperwork for example to confirm Mr Ms identity.
Ref: DRN728977213Given what Ive seen  in this complaint and in other similar cases, Im satisfied Mr F advised 
on and arranged Mr Ms SIPP with Westerby while  he was still an agent of Abana  (and not in 
his capacity as an unregulated introducer  when he was purporting  to seek direct 
authorisation for [Mr F] Associates, or as part of the New Beginnings Network).
did Abana accept responsibility for these arrangements under section 39(3)  FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether Mr F did in fact have authority to act on behalf of Abana in 
advising on and arranging Mr Ms SIPP with Westerby. Weve been provided  with an 
agreement between Abana  and Mr F which purports to be an appointed  representative  
agreement. This was provided by Abana  when we first became involved in these cases  in 
February 2016. The agreement states  the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
Ref: DRN728977214I agree  with the conclusion of the investigator here. The arrangements made  in connection 
with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mr M didnt  constitute  insurance mediation 
activities or life assurance business   both of which relate to contracts  of insurance. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied the terms  of the AR agreement didnt 
authorise Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried  out for him.
As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document.  It says the agreement  
weve relied on didnt  have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the agreement wasnt 
enforceable because it didnt have  all the elements required to be a valid contract. And that 
because it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register  and therefore  Mr F didnt 
become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission. I can see that the last page of the agreement  
 which  contains  the signatures of the parties - is in a different  font from the rest of the 
document. And as Ive already acknowledged  Mr F was never listed  on the FCA register  as 
an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  which provided  the copy of the agreement to us that it now 
asserts is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about Mr Fs 
role with Abana, it told us We have  not been  able to locate a written  agreement with [Mr F] 
as an individual.  To this it attached  the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it couldnt 
find a document  with his original signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana said that when it spoke to one of our adjudicators in February 
2016, it made clear  it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement and that he 
asked for it to be forwarded anyway.
Abana seems  to be acknowledging here that there was an agreement, but that it was 
terminated. In any case,  I cant  find a recording  of the conversation between it and the 
adjudicator in February 2016. But Ive seen an exchange of emails  during that month  
between Abanas  Director  and the adjudicator. At no point was a terminated  AR agreement 
mentioned. The exchange was focussed  on understanding  the nature of the relationship 
between it and Mr F.
I dont find Abanas arguments persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it 
made no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud. And it 
didnt say the document hadnt  been signed  by the parties. I wouldve expected Abana to 
have provided  this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between Abana 
and SIPP  providers which I set out in more  detail below.
Ref: DRN728977215Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
In addition to the AR agreement, there  are several  other batches of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  
into a relationship with him. In 2016  it told us:
The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with Westerby products. These clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic]
agency with Westerby  and provided  a home  for his clients.  [Mr F] paid us £5880  annually for 
this temporary service as he said he was going to be directly authorised. This agreement 
was superseded  when  [Mr F] introduced  New Beginnings Ltd who became an appointed 
representative of Abana. 
Abana says this arrangement, which it still acknowledges,  was for a fixed-fee for the 
caretaking of an existing client base for temporary  period.  It said the arrangement  didnt 
confer any authority  to Mr F.
I think it demonstrates that Abana expected Mr F to carry  on pensions  activities  and 
facilitated this by entering into an agency  agreement with Westerby.  Further,  theres a 
pattern of contemporaneous evidence which bolsters my finding that Abana knew Mr F had 
a significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter from Abana to Westerby  dated 17 May 2013 about the 
transfer of clients from another advisory firm. It requests  that these clients are held in a new 
sub-agency for identification purposes and directs that all commission payments  under  this 
sub-agency be paid to a particular account. That account was in the name of Mr F. 
The main  advice and arrangements  to switch Mr Ms personal  pensions into the Westerby 
SIPP happened in July 2013. A 3% adviser charge was made  and appears to have been 
executed in keeping with these arrangements  agreed between Abana and Westerby.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which 
Westerby requests  an urgent  meeting  with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
Ref: DRN728977216And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from other advisory  
firms. I think the exchange shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship to be that 
Mr F was working on behalf  of Abana and it was attributing the business Mr F was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014 about  the 
nature of the services he was providing.  Abana says this appears to be in relation to a 
suitability report of an existing transferred  SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal  email, 
and Mr F appears to want feedback because he mayve provided  similar  opinions  for Mr F 
when he worked  at a former company.
In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
-The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
-Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
Ref: DRN728977217-Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to assist 
with). And it shows that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with Westerby so that Mr F 
could provide the same for clients.
Further, Abana has said that in a meeting it held with Westerby and Mr F in May 2013,  it was 
told some  SIPP products were insurance based  and therefore compliant  under IMD 
permissions. It seems  probable it didnt  properly understand the business  it was becoming 
involved with.
In June 2015 it sent Mr M a letter which I think is very telling, it begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with Westerby Trustee Services LimitedWhy are we writing to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [Mr F] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
[SIPP]. It has recently come to our attention  that Abana  were not authorised  to give the 
advice we gave  to you regarding your investments as we do not have the correct  regulatory 
permissions
Whether Abana was or wasnt misled by other parties into thinking it could carry on the 
activities that are the subject of Mr Ms complaint, the fact as acknowledged in this letter  is 
that it was responsible for its own regulatory  compliance and its own acts and omissions  in 
that regard.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf.
payment of adviser  charges  made  by SIPP providers for business generated by Mr F
Ive already mentioned a letter Ive seen  from Abana to Westerby  dated 17 May 2013 about 
the transfer of clients from another advisory  firm. It directs that all commission  payments 
under its sub-agency be paid to a particular  account in the name of Mr F. The main advice 
and arrangements to switch Mr Ms personal pensions into the Westerby  SIPP happened in 
July 2013. A 3% adviser  charge was made in keeping with that arrangement.
Abana sent a further letter to Westerby  in November 2013 confirming bank account details 
for its ARs and sub-agents, in which Mr Fs bank account details were  updated.
As an aside,  we were  also told by a different SIPP provider  (Avalon), about  payments made  
to Abana  for business introduced by Mr F before the end of May 2014. Ive seen  statements 
to this effect where Abana  is shown as the introducer and the total payment (which  included 
charges for multiple clients) was due to it. But unfortunately,  its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
Ref: DRN728977218Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He said the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency.
Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it didnt receive  payments from Avalon in respect of certain 
transactions. I think the following  email from Avalon to Mr F from September  2014  is 
instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think this information  supports  my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Although I dont know what payments Abana ultimately received for the reasons Ive set out, 
I do think the evidence  here demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake 
pension activities on behalf  of Abana.
the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana 
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent review into several cases  that are now 
being dealt with by this Service. The reviews  concluded Mr F had been responsible for 
unsuitable advice  he gave and the arrangements  he made for the switch  of pension  funds  
into SIPPs, and therein the investment  in unregulated funds. In order  to pay the redress  due, 
Abana made  a claim on its professional indemnity insurance. So, this was another  example 
we have that for some time it accepted  responsibility  for the things Mr F had done wrong.
Abana ultimately changed its position. It says its initial notification to clients of the things that 
it had got wrong  and the subsequent offer to pay redress wasnt an admission liability. It 
says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention. It said the review work 
conducted by the regulatory compliance  consultancy was flawed. It makes various 
allegations, including that the review relied on incomplete and false information provided by 
SIPP providers.
Ref: DRN728977219Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its likely Abanas later repositioning here had more  to do 
with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the compensation costs. I 
note in December  2017 it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying or being beyond its insurance cover  because his activities  fell outside  the 
scope of Abanas permissions, it shouldve done.
So, I think Abana notifying its clients  that something had gone wrong, the review process it 
engaged with and its initial acceptance  of the redress proposals  is significant and is another 
indication that it had in fact given  Mr F authority to act on its behalf  in arranging SIPPs,  such  
as Mr Ms.
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  Mr 
F listed  as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana  Team. It includes a photo  of 
an individual that purports to be him. We obtained  this information from an online resource.  
Mr Fs details remained  on the Abana website until at least December 2014.
Abana disputed  these  matters. For example, it says the historic  website  pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
website wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or as 
Abana suggests the pages  were just draft.
However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.
Abanas engagement with the FCA in 2015
In responding  to some earlier decisions which have been upheld  against it, Abana 
questioned the jurisdiction  of this Service citing communications it had previously with the 
FCA on this matter. I can see that Abanas Director  sought advice  from the FCA on 2 
February 2015. His email  was as follows:
Ref: DRN728977220Dear X, regarding FCA authorised firm 597069 Abana Lda. Thank you for advising  me 
earlier of the rule book  regarding  SIPP advice  I have read the following chapters that you 
referred me toMay we ask the following questions:1. Can we advise UK residents on 
SIPPs under  our inward passported UK branch IMD permissions?...
I can see the FCA responded  on 16 March 2015  saying (bolding  my emphasis):
In respect  of your question as to whether  you can advise UK residents on SIPPs under an 
inward UK branch IMD passport. We understand that by UK residents you mean potential 
members or actual members  of SIPPS.  These types of schemes are set up under a trust 
arrangement whereby  the member is a beneficiary  of the trust and the benefits  to which  they 
are entitled  will be secured through the rights under the insurance  policy  being held by the 
trustee. Normally the trustee operates/holds a separate  scheme  and insurance contract for 
each member. On that basis the IMD passport would  not be sufficient and you would 
be required to seek a top-up permission.
This is because arranging to obtain  rights under an existing policy is not IMD business  and 
to be precise the member  would be entering  into a trust relationship not an insurance 
contract. Additionally, the IMD would not generally apply to post conclusion activities such as 
arranging deals in and advising on subsequent  transactionsSo the IMD would not extend  
to advice within the pension  (e.g. investment decisions on where to invest),  transfers 
of benefits to or from the pension and advising on and arranging the taking of 
benefits.
This is consistent with my findings elsewhere in this decision.
Rather than supporting its position  on jurisdiction, I think  this exchange  of emails in February  
and March 2015 is revealing that even at this time Abana still didnt know until it received 
FCAs advice whether or not it had permission  to provide the services it had been up until 
that point.
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a substantial  weight  of evidence and argument  here.  And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
The position  adopted by Abana is that it was duped by Mr F and various  other parties, in 
respect of what happened  in this and other cases. Recently it quoted  a judgement  WM 
Morrison Supermarkets plc (Morrisons) v Various Claimants (Supreme Court, 1 April 2020. 
It drew on this outcome  to infer that a principle cant be held responsible  for a dishonest 
agent.
Leaving aside that again it seems  to be accepting something which it has previously argued 
against i.e. that Mr F was its agent,  I dont find the facts and circumstances of the particular 
Supreme Court judgement it quotes  to be telling in the matter  Im considering.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs.  I 
think Mr F had its actual  authority to do this on its behalf. 
Even if Abana wasnt fully aware of everything  Mr F was doing, as Ill set out later,  that isnt a 
defence here. It had to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs  responsibly  
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Ref: DRN728977221So, I think Abana is responsible for Mr Fs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
including his details  on Mr Ms application  form and liaising with that business on his behalf.  
But, even  if Abana didnt  give its actual  authority for Mr F to conduct these matters  (and only 
intended him to be carrying  on pension business), theres well established case  law that if 
theres one act that was authorised by the principal,  we may be able to look at other acts 
linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the advice it gave and the arrangements  it 
made for the switch of Mr Ms personal pension funds into the Westerby SIPP and the 
investments in unregulated funds, which together ultimately resulted in the financial loss hes 
suffered.
my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude this is a complaint  that this Service can consider.  In summary this is because: 
-Mr Ms complaint is about both the advice and the arrangements  for the switch  of his 
personal pensions  to the Westerby SIPP and the investments made  therein. So, its a 
complaint about regulated activities.
-We can consider Mr Ms complaint about  the advice given and the arrangements  
made by Mr F. This is because Im satisfied that he was responsible for the switch of 
his personal pensions to a SIPP with Westerby and the investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds, as an agent with the actual  authority of Abana. It follows that Abana  
is responsible for his acts and omissions in this regard.
considering the merits of Mr Ms complaint 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Ms complaint about Abana  in 
relation to the arrangements made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. And, after careful consideration,  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mr Ms case.  For example,  Ive not seen a fact find covering his 
circumstances, nor a record of his objectives for his pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mr Ms attitude  to risk. And I havent seen a recommendations 
report.
Ref: DRN728977222In relation to another case Abana  has said recently that this Service  hasnt  asked it for 
information. Im afraid that position isnt credible. The cases  Ive seen have  been  ongoing 
now for many years. Abana has been asked  for the information it holds in relation to the 
complaints, for example  in Mr Ms case a request was first sent in May 2017. Its had ample  
opportunity to make its case.
Mr M has provided us with testimony  and some documentation which is relevant to the 
events hes complained about.
For reasons I can understand, several of Abanas former customers  who have found 
themselves in a similar situation to Mr M have formed an informal  group for communicating  
progress. Ive not seen anything that concerns me about this development.
Nevertheless, as I wouldve done in any event,  and in respect of both parties, I generally 
give more weight to testimony and evidence which is more contemporaneous with the 
events complained about. Thats  because  it tends to give a more accurate account  given  the 
effect of the passage of time and the potential for the benefit of hindsight  to colour matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including Westerby as the provider of Mr Ms SIPP. As previously established, this has been 
important in evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf of Abana in bringing about the switch 
of Mr Ms pension  funds.
While there s conflicting  information about  what happened in 2013 and many gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.  
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ms case? 
The first thing I considered in relation  to Mr Ms complaint is the extensive regulation around 
transactions like those performed by Mr F who Im satisfied  was acting as Abanas agent.  
The FCA Handbook contains  eleven  Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
Ref: DRN728977223And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer has been switched  to a pension  that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s)  or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
Ref: DRN728977224It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the switch of Mr Ms personal pension into a SIPP?
I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements  placed  on it. Ill explain why.
Mr M knew Mr F through  a friend.  In 2013,  he approached Mr F for advice about his two 
Scottish Widows  personal pension plans. At that time Mr F represented himself as being  
associated with Abana. 
Mr M says Mr F went through all his documentation and told him his funds could be placed  in 
a low risk, low cost fund and generate a modest  increase  in his pot compared to what  he 
was achieving through his existing personal pension  provider. Mr M told us he didnt receive 
anything in writing  from Mr F or Abana.
Mr Fs details and signature were included  on Mr Ms ePortfolio Solutions  application,  which 
gave effect to him making investments in unregulated  funds. Mr Fs details were also on Mr 
Ms Westerby  SIPP  application.  In both cases,  Mr F was identified  as being  associated with 
Abana and its details  were also supplied on the forms.
Mr F, as Abanas agent, had to obtain information from Mr M in order to understand essential 
facts about him. In order to advise him to switch his personal pension  pots into the Westerby  
SIPP and invest in the unregulated funds, Mr F had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ms investment objectives 
(including his attitude  to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted  to 
invest for). 
-Mr M was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
-Mr M had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Ref: DRN728977225Ive not seen a fact-find covering Mr Ms circumstances,  nor a record  of his objectives  for his 
pension arrangements. Theres no document which captures Mr Ms attitude to risk at that 
time. I havent seen  a recommendations  report.  And I havent seen a comparison of the 
performance, costs  and benefits of his then existing plans with what was being proposed.  
Abana hasnt  produced information to show Mr F followed proper  process, or if he did that 
this supported the subsequent transaction he advised and arranged. This is odd because  in 
March 2014 when it was communicating with another SIPP provider about the business Mr F 
was generating,  it provided some assurance that proper documents  were  on file and that its 
compliance function had oversight of what he was doing.
I think Mr M was interested in achieving greater returns on his pension funds than he was 
receiving from Scottish Widows. But I dont think his risk appetite wouldve been high from 
what I have managed to glean from the information  I do have.
A risk profile analysis he completed  for Abana in September 2015 suggests he had a 
cautious outlook. This information was gathered sometime  after the event complained  about  
and following issues emerging with his investments, so the weight I put on this is limited. But 
Abana hasnt  provided the equivalent information  from 2013.
Ive not seen any analysis of Mr Ms capacity for loss at the time. But his personal pensions 
were modest even though he was a member  of an OPS. And taking on more  risk to build up 
funds mightve been something to consider if hed been younger,  but Mr M was already 65 
when Mr F gave him advice.
As we know,  Mr M was persuaded to switch nearly  £74,000 from his Scottish Widows plans 
into the SIPP in July 2013. He took TFC of just over £18,000. The bulk of what  remained 
after fees was invested in two unregulated  funds  through a business  called ePortfolio 
Solutions. These funds  were called Kijani and SAMAIF. Based on a valuation from 2015, 
they accounted for around 80% of his investments. The balance was in the TCA Global 
Credit and Montello  Real Estate  Opportunity  funds.
Mr M said that although the only communication he received was from Westerby, everything 
appeared to be fine until November 2014. At this point it informed him that the Kijani fund 
was under investigation and that he should  liaise with Mr F and Abana about  the implications 
as it couldnt give him advice.
Mr M says that Mr F told him Westerby was panicking. He also contacted Abanas director 
who he said was dismissive and said that in the unlikely event that the fund failed he would 
be compensated.
Unfortunately, by 2015 the Kijani  and SAMAIF funds had been  suspended leaving Mr M 
facing a loss. Westerby  was subsequently  able to redeem £30,000 of his investments in 
2016. And I can see this enabled him to drawdown a small pension  income  from 2018.
Abana wrote to him in June 2015 that year to let him know  that it had recently become aware  
that it hadnt been authorised to give him the investment advice it did in 2013 when making  
arrangements for his SIPP.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mr Ms case.
Ref: DRN728977226I think its telling that the specialist  independent  third party  concluded in 2016  that Mr F, on 
behalf of Abana, had been responsible  for what had happened to Mr M. And it set out how 
Abana should put things  right. As we know it ultimately failed to act on the outcome of the 
review.
Further, Ive seen a communication  between Abana and Mr F from April 2014, which I think 
is also relevant. In this email exchange  Abana provides feedback to Mr F about  his approach 
to suitability reports. This was provided by its compliance function  and appears to show Mr 
Fs practices were  lacking,  for example in relation to advice around risk appetite.
Overall, Ive concluded Mr F wasnt acting with due skill, care or diligence  when  he effected 
Mr Ms switch  of pension plans into his Westerby SIPP  and the unregulated funds. He was in 
breach of Principle  2 and COBS 9.2.1R, and therefore so was Abana.
I find Mr Ms testimony  plausible and persuasive. And I think  its of note that Abana  has 
never made the case that the switch his personal pensions  into the Westerby  SIPP and 
investments in unregulated funds was an appropriate or fair transaction.
Rather, Abanas response to this Service has largely  focussed on why it wasnt responsible 
for what had happened, and how it was the fault of others. Its failed to engage  with the 
merits of this case, despite  clear evidence of the relationship it had with Mr F. I wont  
rehearse the arguments already made in my decision,  but Ive concluded  that Mr F was 
acting as an agent of Abana with its actual authority to arrange SIPPs.
Ive already mentioned the letter Abana sent Mr M in June 2015 which I think is very telling, it 
begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with Westerby Trustee Services LimitedWhy are we writing to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [Mr F] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It has recently come  to our attention that Abana 
were not authorised to give the advice  we gave to you regarding  your Investments as we do 
not have the correct regulatory permissions
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Mr F gave  advice  on and made  arrangements for the switch of Mr Ms personal pension  
funds into a SIPP, which would be dealing in unregulated investments. He transmitted  the 
necessary applications. In doing  so, he led Westerby  to believe Mr M had been advised  on 
the transaction and that this activity was done with Abanas authority.
Abana has asserted that SIPPs are actually straight-forward for customers  to understand. I 
think the number  of complaints brought to this Service  about  problems  in this area suggests 
the opposite in some circumstances.  And certainly when considering the portfolio put in 
place for Mr M which wasnt diversified, with interests in unregulated funds which werent  a 
match for his risk appetite, I think its assertion is ill-considered.
Ref: DRN728977227Theres no evidence Mr M was an experienced or sophisticated investor.  As Ive set out, he 
thought the new arrangements being recommended were low risk and lost cost. A small 
amount of due diligence wouldve exposed  the arrangements  being made for him as 
inappropriate. 
Mr F wouldve been aware Mr M was being  exposed to significant  risks in the investments he 
was facilitating.  For example,  theres  no evidence Mr M had the capacity to withstand 
potential losses. Mr F wouldve known unregulated funds could be Illiquid, meaning Mr M 
might have difficulty getting access to his money. The funds were  highly specialised, out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And they were  subject  to valuation uncertainty.  
So, Im satisfied that Mr F didnt act honestly, fairly and professionally, and in accordance  
with Mr Ms best interests, in relation to designated investment business  he was carrying  out. 
He breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible  for his acts and 
omissions.
So, to conclude I dont  think  the switch of Mr Ms personal pensions with Scottish  Widows 
into the Westerby SIPP and the unregulated investments could sensibly be regarded  as fair 
to Mr M. As such I think Mr F, as Abanas agent, failed to meet the regulatory requirements 
Ive set out when  providing the advice  and making the arrangements.  So, taking all the 
circumstances of the case into account,  its fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint  
against Abana, and for Abana to put things  right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs  to be returned to the position  he wouldve been  in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Abana responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mr M wouldve switched his Scottish 
Widows funds into a Westerby SIPP, and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial  loss hes 
experienced. I think he wouldve left his pension  funds where they were.
So, Abana needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result  of making the switch
Abana must  obtain the notional value of Mr Ms previous personal pension plans with 
Scottish Widows, as at the date of calculation.  So, as if they hadnt been switched to the 
Westerby SIPP.
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investors  
Income Total Return Index (and prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index) should be used as a reasonable proxy  for the type of return  that couldve 
been achieved  if Mr Ms pension had remained invested in his Scottish Widows plans.
Abana should then find the current value of Mr Ms SIPP, including  investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation  here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Ref: DRN728977228My understanding is that Mr M took TFC in 2013  and has been drawing down a small 
pension income  since 2018. I dont believe hes made any further  contributions to his SIPP.  
The value Abana obtains or the calculations Abana makes should  assume  these 
adjustments would  still have  occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Ms 
former pension plans and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic  financial loss that 
Abana needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mr Ms SIPP and avoid ongoing  fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Abana should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as 
a commercial value for the investments and Abana can then pay this to take ownership  of 
them.
If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance Abana may ask Mr M to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP  may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and 
charges on the amount he may receive from the investment and any eventual sums  he 
would be able to access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Ms SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ms SIPP, payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed stayed in his original 
Scottish Widows  personal pension plans.
If paying compensation into Mr Ms SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on his investments, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. 
Because Mr Ms SIPP wouldve been used to buy a taxable income any compensation paid 
in cash should  be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been due. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  
would reduce the amount  payable equivalent to the current basic  rate of tax. 
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Ms SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid,  Abana  should  pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of future fees.  This 
should allow  enough time for the issues with the investments  to be dealt with, and for them  
to be removed from the SIPP.
Ref: DRN728977229If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr M should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr M has been caused  upset as a result of Abanas actions. The sudden  loss of 
a significant element of his pension fund wouldve come as a shock  to him and has clearly  
had a significant impact. In recognition of this it should pay him £500 for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. I require Abana 
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated in the section putting things 
right. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of Mr Ms acceptance of my final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7289772