K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1990 and 
1993 to cover a mortgage. Mr and Mrs T say Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them  
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
CBS had to make Mr and Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding the policies  to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs T took separate polices in 1990  as 
the insurer didnt  offer a joint policy, and a joint policy  in 1993. The sale of these policies took 
place a long time ago so there  is limited  information available, but CBS has sent us a copy  of 
the available  paperwork.
In 1990 Mr T completed and signed  an application form separate to the mortgage  to apply 
for the PPI. While an application  form isnt available for the policy Mrs T applied  for I think  its 
likely she also completed and signed  a similar  form when  she applied  for the PPI.
CBS has also provided a copy of the joint application Mr and Mrs T signed for the policy they 
took in 1993. Again  Mr and Mrs T completed  and signed a document  separate  to their 
mortgage to apply for the PPI.
So overall I think CBS made it clear  that the PPI wasnt  a condition of Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage and that they didnt have to take it out. I also think that they chose to take it out  
although I can understand why they may not remember this.
CBS didnt recommend  the PPI polices to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if they 
were right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  they had 
of making their repayments,  which included generous sick pay, savings and help from family. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ts sick pay, and for longer. It 
would also have allowed Mr and Mrs T to keep their savings in place to be used towards 
other essential expenses. And while Mr and Mrs Ts family would have wanted to help, their 
ability to do so would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could 
have changed.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN79131032Mr and Mrs T have  told us that Mr T suffered from a medical condition, but from the 
information available the condition started  after the polices were taken out, so wouldnt have 
been a consideration at the time the policy was sold and wouldnt have been pre-existing.
Which means CBS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI policies  to Mr and Mrs T.
my final decision
I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  by 13 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7913103