K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  has been unable to trace  
money in an account  she opened in 1993. She also complains about Halifaxs  customer  
service in dealing  with this issue.
background
Ms S opened the account in 1993  and says she still has the account  passbook which shows 
a balance of over £1,900. Ms S says she attended  a Halifax branch in 1998 and again  some 
years later to find out where her money was. She says she was told Halifax  needed to look 
into matters and try and trace the account. Ms S would like her money back.
Halifax accepts it didnt  provide appropriate customer care when Ms S attended its branch. It 
accepts she should  have been told what happened to her money and has apologised and 
paid her £100 compensation. Halifax says the money in the account was transferred to 
another account in October 1993 but due to the time that has passed cant  say where it was 
transferred to.
Ms S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator  thought that Halifax  records  provided 
evidence that the money  had been  transferred  in 1993. The adjudicator thought  that due to 
the time that had passed it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude it couldnt  say where 
the money went. The adjudicator thought Halifax could have dealt with Ms Ss request to 
trace the money more appropriately but thought Halifax had paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation.
Ms S doesnt accept  that view and says the compensation doesnt go far enough and that 
Halifax should be able to say where  the money went.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Ms S will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Halifax should  have dealt far better  with Ms Ss request to 
trace the money. I accept  that due to the time that has passed its difficult to say exactly what  
happened when  Ms S attended a Halifax branch. But I cant see any reason why Ms S 
couldnt have  been told that the money had been  transferred  in 1993. I think that may have 
allowed her the opportunity to trace that money either with other accounts she held or with 
the help of her son. But Im satisfied that Halifax has apologised and paid what  I think is a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation. Im also satisfied that Ms S didnt suffer any 
financial loss as a result of Halifaxs mistake.
I appreciate that Ms S has a copy of the passbook  that shows a balance in the account.  But I 
think that often banks or building  societies will allow account transactions without  a 
passbook being  presented and so updated.  Ive looked at Halifaxs records  that show  the 
money was transferred in 1993 to another account. So Ive come to the overall conclusion 
that the money was transferred. I dont think it fair to expect  Halifax  to be able to say where 
that money went as its only obliged to keep records for six years  and this transaction took 
place over 25 years ago.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint and so I cant ask it to do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN70853462my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7085346