K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited unfairly  withdrew a discount scheme 
which applied to her group  private  medical insurance policy, thus causing her premium  to 
increase.
background
Mrs M had been a member of the group policy for many  years. Some time ago, Aviva invited 
Mrs M to enrol in a programme which gave the opportunity to reduce her premiums. Mrs M 
took up the invitation and benefited from the resultant discount.  
In October  2017, Aviva  wrote to Mrs M and other  members of her group policy. It said it had 
realised theyd been offered to enrol in the programme in error. It said they shouldnt have 
been allowed  to do this, and thus benefit  from the discount, under  the terms of their policy.  It 
therefore said it was withdrawing access to the programme, and the related discount 
wouldnt apply to policy renewals from 6 April 2018.  It said that to soften the impact of this, it 
would allow a smaller discount to apply for up to two years,  depending  on the size of the 
discount from which the member had been benefiting at the time of its removal.    
Mrs M was unhappy at this and complained  to Aviva. She didnt think  Avivas response was 
satisfactory and so she referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied by 
Avivas explanation that it had made  a mistake. She didnt think  Mrs M had been 
disadvantaged by the error and considered that Aviva  had acted fairly.
Mrs M didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. She said that according to Aviva  she and 
other members of her group policy had been  given access to the programme contrary to 
their policy terms  and conditions. She said Aviva had failed to provide the policy terms and 
conditions to show that this was the case. She considered that the offer of a reduced  
discount for a limited  period  of time was derisory.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
It is up to Aviva to decide how to operate its business. It is entitled  to introduce incentives 
and discount schemes,  and to offer these to its policyholders as it sees  fit. It isnt obliged to 
offer the same incentives  and discount schemes  across its entire range of products and 
policies. Instead,  it may tailor particular schemes  to a particular group of policyholders.  
Indeed, Aviva has said that Mrs Ms policy benefited  from a particular discount which had 
been negotiated with the group policyholder.
In this case, Aviva introduced the particular programme for its individual members who held 
its Healthier Solutions policy. This is evident from the programmes website which  states:
Who is eligible for a discount?
Ref: DRN79222452[This programme] is available to all Aviva Healthier  Solutions customers. In order  to qualify 
for a discount, you must be over the age of 18 at the start of the policy year.
Im satisfied this restriction on eligibility was fair. Mrs M wasnt an Aviva Healthier Solutions 
customer. She held a group Health  Solutions policy which was different. Im therefore 
satisfied by Avivas explanation  that she was offered access  to the programme by mistake.  I 
dont think Aviva needs to point  to a particular clause in Mrs Ms policy  to justify  this; it is 
simply that the policy by its nature didnt qualify.
When Aviva  realised its error, it wrote  to the members in question to advise them  access to 
the programme,  and its related discount, would be withdrawn.  I think this was reasonable. 
Aviva wasnt  obliged  to continue offering a discount to those who shouldnt have been 
eligible to receive  it in the first place. However,  Aviva offered to phase  out the discount so as 
to soften the impact  on the affected members  which I think  was fair.
I dont think Mrs M was disadvantaged by Avivas error. On the contrary, she temporarily 
paid less than she should have done for her cover. She will eventually be paying the correct 
amount for her policy but will not need  to pay back the amount by which she has been 
undercharged. 
In summary,  while I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed that she is unable to continue  
benefiting from the discount in question,  I cant reasonably conclude that Aviva has done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922245