K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the way that American  Express Services Europe Limited 
(AMEX) dealt with his attempt to recover the cost of a trip, that he couldnt  go on due to ill 
health. 
Mr K brought a complaint  to this service with a representative, Mrs K. To keep things simple, 
I will refer to both Mr K and Mrs K as Mr K, unless stated otherwise.   
background
In 2017, Mr K booked  travel through an online travel company.  Unfortunately,  he was later 
diagnosed with a heart  condition which meant  he couldnt travel. So he contacted  AMEX  
through his online account to try to recover the amount he paid for his trip. As his family 
members were all able to travel, he only claimed  for his own costs  to be refunded.
Mr K said the travel  company had refunded part of what  he paid to it for his trip. So he was 
attempting to recover the remaining amount of £342.11 from AMEX.   
AMEX said the travel  insurance cover he held with his credit card didnt cover  him for being 
unable to travel due to medical reasons. So, it started the chargeback process.  
AMEX contacted Mr K in July 2017 to request some further information  in order  to progress 
the chargeback.  The amount he was trying  to recover in 2017  was removed from his account  
balance whilst the investigation was open.
Mr K didnt respond to AMEXs letter dated  July 2017 and so it wrote  to him again  in August 
2017 to say that as the further information wasnt received,  the investigation would be closed 
and the amount he was claiming  for had been  reapplied to his account balance.  
Mr K got in touch with AMEX about the chargeback in August  2018 through  his online 
account to provide more information  about  the claim. 
Mr K then contacted AMEX in January 2019  to ask for an update  on whether he would  
receive a refund for the outstanding amount.  AMEX  at this stage incorrectly  advised him that 
the remaining  amount  had been refunded back to his credit card. But that wasnt correct as 
he wasnt due a refund.  Mr K said he was also promised to be contacted  but that didnt 
happen.  
Mr K was later informed that the time limit to complete the chargeback had expired and he 
wouldnt receive a refund for the remaining amount. AMEX  also said that the chargeback 
wouldnt have been successful in any event because the circumstances he presented didnt 
meet the criteria of the scheme.  
Mr K remained unhappy  and said on multiple  occasions he was told he would receive a 
refund of the outstanding  amount. He maintains that it should refund him the remaining 
amount. 
AMEX accepted it could have handled  things better. So it offered to compensate Mr K £125 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  But it maintained its decision not to refund him 
the remaining  amount.  So he brought a complaint  to this service. 
Ref: DRN72456192Our investigator looked into everything  but didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld.  He 
agreed AMEX didnt handle things reasonably but felt it had compensated him fairly. Mr K 
disagreed with our investigator and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks complaint relates  to the overall  handling of his attempt to recover  the cost of his trip 
through AMEX.  And so, I wont  be considering any concerns about his travel insurance cover  
held with his credit card. This is because any concerns he has about his travel  insurance 
policy would need  to be considered by the underwriter of that policy. 
I agree  with Mr K that his expectations werent reasonably  managed. I have no reason  to 
doubt he was incorrectly advised by AMEX  that the refund would be paid to him. I have 
considered what  Mr K has said along with the call notes taken from the calls between  both 
parties. 
I note Mr K said he wanted to provide some  more information about  other  calls that took 
place where he was informed wrongly that he would receive a refund. Mr K hasnt yet 
provided any further information, but that wont be necessary as Im satisfied he was 
incorrectly advised by AMEX. All parties  accept this was the case. 
Having said that, Im not in agreement with Mr K that he has lost out financially as a result  of 
AMEX providing him with incorrect  information. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to him. 
But I say this because  the circumstances Mr K presented in order to start the chargeback  
process wouldnt have  been successful under the scheme in any event. And it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  of me to require  AMEX to refund the outstanding amount because it said it 
would do so in error.  
I should explain that a chargeback is a process by which settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants (in this case the online travel company). Its intended to 
resolve disputes when something has gone wrong  between a cardholder  and a merchant. In 
this case there was no error with the transaction  Mr K made. I understand Mr K accepts this. 
AMEX said Mr K brought the further  information to its attention outside of the chargeback 
scheme time limit. The general time limit for submitting a chargeback request is 120 days.  
This can either be 120 days  from the payment being  made or from when Mr K noticed a 
problem with the payment. 
Mr K was aware he couldnt  fly in 2017  and only provided further information a year later,  in 
August 2018,  which would mean the chargeback  would have been out of time. However, in 
any event, as above the chargeback would have  been unsuccessful  in any event given  the 
circumstances which Mr K was claiming  for. 
I do think AMEX should  compensate  Mr K for the level of distress and inconvenience caused  
to him. It provided him with incorrect information which resulted in his expectations being  
poorly managed.  I also appreciate the level of service he received wasnt reasonable. He 
Ref: DRN72456193said AMEX promised to contact him but failed to do so which I can appreciate would have 
added to his frustration. 
But I think, overall, £125 is a fair amount to compensate Mr K for the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused  by AMEX. So, whilst I appreciate  this will disappoint  Mr K, I 
dont require AMEX  to do anything else here. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Liam Hickey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7245619