K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc is holding her liable for a debt from a credit card 
account which she didnt  open.
background
Mrs P says she found out about the debt when she was contacted by debt collectors in 2018  
and told that she needed to pay over £2,000.  She says she never opened  a credit card 
account with Santander (or any of the trading names it previously operated) and it had 
incorrect details for her. She had been at her current address since  2000 and was living 
there with her three  children in 2008.  Santander  didnt help her when she got in touch and 
said it couldnt find her details.
Santander agreed it had provided poor customer service when she contacted it and sent her 
a cheque for £75 to compensate for this. But it said that it considered she was responsible  
for the borrowing. It said the account  was opened  on 14 January 2018 in a branch. The 
credit card was used and payments made until 16 March 2009. The account was closed in 
November 2009  and passed  to a debt recovery agent. It didnt consider that this had been a 
fraudulent application.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-There was a limited amount of information  now available. There  were some 
discrepancies in the information Santander held about Mrs P. It had two customer  
profiles  one created in November 2007  which didnt have correct information.  And 
the other created on 14 January 2008 when the credit card was opened.
-He couldnt  say what processes Santander  should have undertaken to identify Mrs P 
and whether at the time of opening  photo  identification should  have been taken and a 
copy retained. But the key information on the second profile was correct.
-The credit  card and PIN was sent to an account  which Mrs P says she didnt 
recognise. And the address  on her profile  was changed to this one on 20 March 
2009.
-The pattern of spending on the account  wasnt consistent with that of a fraudster. He 
provided a list of all the transactions. Until March 2009 the account appeared to be 
used for general  spending and any balance had been paid every month in branch. 
He thought it unlikely the account had been opened and operated  without her 
knowledge in this way.
-The debt that led to the default arose from five cash withdrawals  each for £300 made 
in March 2009 and the balance  increased  until the account  was closed as a result of 
fees and interest.
-The account had been passed to a first debt collector in November 2009. Mail had 
been returned from the disputed address  in December 2011 and the account had 
been passed to different debt collectors  in 2014, including the one that was able to 
find Mrs P.
Mrs P is represented by her son in this complaint. He said she disagreed with the outcome. 
He didnt think that the points theyd put forward had been taken into account or answered. 
He didnt see how an account could have been opened without identification even  in 2008. It 
wasnt enough that Mrs P was on the electoral roll and her correct national  insurance 
number was provided  shed  lost that card years ago. There was nothing  to prove what  
Santander is saying.  Mrs P said she never had any connection with the disputed  address 
where the card was sent. He thought it was unfair  to rely on what it was thought a fraudster 
Ref: DRN78424692would do and he said that this could all have been  carried out by someone who had access 
to information  from Santander.  Whatever the pattern of payments, he still couldnt see why 
an account would be opened without identification.  He said that Mrs P would take this matter 
to court  if we didnt  uphold her complaint. He wanted  to speak to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording  of a long call Mrs Ps representative had with our investigator  
about his opinion. I have a good  understanding of his points and so I dont need to speak 
with him to decide  on this complaint and its rare that this is necessary.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and I need to think  about what  is most  
likely. An issue is the amount of time that has passed since  this credit card account was 
opened. So there is no copy either  written  or online of any account opening application now 
available. Or clarity beyond what is on the customer profile about the information collected at 
the time.  Thats likely been affected by the account  being closed and passed to debt 
collectors. And also because contact  with Mrs P only seems to have  been  made  about  this 
from 2018. We wouldnt expect Santander to retain information indefinitely.
Our investigator has said that there  was an earlier  profile created for Mrs P although some of 
those details were incorrect. The existence  of that profile may have accounted for the 
difficulty Santander says it had when she made a complaint. But apart  from that it doesnt 
help much as it wasnt linked to any accounts.
The evidence is that the active profile  in her name and the one used  as a basis to open the 
account was created  on 14 January  2008. I appreciate her representatives comments that 
information such as her national insurance number could have been discovered by a 
fraudster. She also says that she wasnt employed  at the time although the profile records  
that she was.
For reasons which  are now not clear the credit  card and PIN were sent to a disputed 
address. It does seem to me likely that an acceptable explanation for this was then given to 
branch staff.  But Mrs P insists she has no connection with the address or knows  anyone  
connected to that address.
I agree  with our investigator that the transactions on the account at first arent  consistent  with 
those of a fraudster. And that it is highly unlikely  a fraudster would repay the balances  as 
they fell due. Or as I can see in June 2008  happened would ask for a refund of one of the 
payments made a couple of months  earlier. I also note that in April 2008 other products were 
applied for under this customer profile  including  a cash  ISA. And in June 2008 an 
investments ISA and growth account  were  opened.
Activity on the card stopped from June 2008  to February 2009. The evidence  from 
Santander is that any paper statements for the account would have then been going  to 
Mrs Ps correct  address.  But on 16, 17, 18, 20 and 21 March  2009 the cash withdrawals of 
£300 each were made and I note a payment of the prior months  balance  on the account 
applied on 16 March  2009. And then on 20 March 2009 the address on the account  was 
changed to the disputed  one.
Ref: DRN78424693Had Mrs Ps position say been that she did know about the account and that in March 2009 
there was fraudulent use that had been concealed from her then I can see that as a possible 
explanation to be considered. And if she had say given an explanation of some connection 
to the disputed address that might  have been consistent with this. But thats clearly not her 
position and she has had a fair opportunity to set out what it is. And so its not an explanation  
I can consider as a plausible one.
I need to think  what  is most likely here. And although the level of verification Santander can 
show it did in 2008 is a factor its not the only one. The position in summary as I see it is that 
an account was opened under a profile that had the correct key details. That profile  was also 
used to later open  savings and investment products  which  is odd if this was a fraudulent 
application. The use of the credit card in my view was more  likely genuine use either by Mrs 
P herself  or by someone shed consented  to having and using the card. I find it highly  
unlikely a fraudster  having opened the account would have waited over a year before 
seeking to benefit from it. And even if as Mrs Ps representative says this was with a view to 
building a higher credit limit  there was no such use between June 2008  and February 
2009. So taking  into account all these factors I dont find that the payments on the card were 
unauthorised and so I consider Mrs P is fairly  responsible for the borrowing.
I appreciate how disappointed she will be by my decision. Santander  has paid her 
compensation for poor service and I wont be asking it to do anything more.  Shes  indicated  
she might  want  to pursue  this in court and if she doesnt accept my decision she is free to do 
so subject to any relevant  time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7842469