K820x#14complaint
M (a limited company) is unhappy with what The National  Farmers Union  Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited (NFU)  did after it made a claim on its legal expenses  insurance policy.  
background
M (represented by Mr M) has a business protection policy with NFU.  Mr M made  a claim on 
that policy in relation  to a dispute  with solicitors whod previously acted for M. NFU accepted 
the claim and agreed Mr M could appoint his own solicitors. NFU said it would pay the 
guideline hourly rate for that area with Mr M topping up the balance.  
The claim progressed. In late 2015 and again in 2016 Mr M raised concerns about the costs 
he was being  invoiced for by his solicitors. NFU said a costs  assessment would be carried 
out when the case  was concluded. The case was settled in late 2016  on a global settlement  
basis (meaning both damages  and legal costs were  included  in that figure). NFU contributed 
£5,000 to bring the total amount to £150,000  which is the figure Mr Ms solicitors  advised 
was reasonable.  
Mr M continued to raise concerns about  what  the solicitors had charged and the amount he 
was left with after costs had been paid from the global settlement amount. And he was 
unhappy NFU hadnt carried  out the promised assessment of his solicitors costs. He also 
said NFU should have done more  in response  to the concerns he raised about the actions of 
his solicitors. In particular he said it hadnt  addressed questions about  discrepancies  in the 
information his solicitors submitted to NFU or a costs claim theyd made in December 2016. 
NFU provided a number  of responses to the issues raised by Mr M including a final response  
on 2 June 2017. It accepted he could have been provided with clearer information  about the 
fees his solicitors had submitted. And it provided  some additional  details on this.
But it said many  of the issues raised  by Mr M were to do with the conduct of his solicitors 
and that was something hed need  to raise with them or the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr M continued to correspond with NFU in relation to his concerns. In particular he was 
unhappy NFU had referred to a reduction in his solicitors fees. And he continued to raise  
concerns about  the actions of his solicitors. NFU issued another  final response on 29 May 
2018. It accepted  Mr M hadnt received a response to some of the queries hed raised. But it 
felt these were generally about the conduct of his solicitors and theyd need to be raised with 
the Legal Ombudsman. It explained why it had referred to a reduction in the solicitors fees. 
Ive explained  to Mr M that we cant consider his complaint about the issues covered in the 
complaint NFU responded to in June 2017 because  these were referred to us more than six 
months after NFU issued its final response. But I said we could consider the new issues  that 
NFU responded to in May 2018. 
I issued a provisional decision on these matters last month. In summary I said:  
As Mr M contacted us within six months of the final response letter  from May 2018  I think we 
can look at any new issues considered at that time.  I can see Mr M raised concerns about a 
failure to respond  to correspondence from November 2017 until April 2018 and the fact NFU 
had referred to the change in the solicitors fees as a reduction.  
Ref: DRN70670402Its not in dispute  that NFU didnt respond to correspondence from Mr M at that time and I 
agree it should  have  done so. I note its apologised for this. But I can see it did address the 
points hed raised on 14 May and explained  that many of the issues  raised by Mr M related 
to the conduct  of his solicitors and needed to be directed to them (or the Legal 
Ombudsman). 
Ive reviewed the points  raised by Mr M and I think  that was a reasonable response. I also 
note hed previously  been told that issues in relation to the conduct of his solicitors  would  be 
for the Legal  Ombudsman to consider. So I think the apology NFU has already  provided 
does enough to put things  right here.  
I know Mr M is also concerned NFU referred  to the change in the fees charged by his 
solicitor as a reduction. But NFU has provided  what I consider to be a reasonable 
explanation as to why it used that phrase. I appreciate Mr M may disagree with that but 
ultimately I dont think what NFU thinks about this makes a great deal of difference.  Its 
correctly advised  him that if hes got concerns about the amount hes been  charged by his 
solicitors those issues will need to be dealt with by his solicitors or the Legal Ombudsman. 
responses to my provisional  decision
NFU didnt have any comments on my provisional decision. Mr M did respond  with 
comments about the complaint Id said was outside of our jurisdiction. Ive considered those 
in a separate decision. Mr M didnt make  any detailed comments on the points which  form 
part of this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any detailed comments in relation to this complaint I dont 
have any reason to change  the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under  the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M (on behalf of M) to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7067040