K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that PSA Finance  UK Limited mis-sold him a hire purchase payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B was sold the PPI in 2007 to protect  the repayments on the hire purchase agreement  for 
a car. The policy provided disability and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Whilst PSA has some  paperwork,  it no longer  has the documents relating to the PPI sale, 
which isnt surprising given how much time has elapsed. However  it does make  it more 
difficult to decide  the case.  In reaching my decision I have considered the evidence  that we 
do have as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened  on a balance of 
probability.
PSA says that Mr B bought the policy after the credit had been agreed, as a result  of a 
postal offer that was sent to him. Mr B says that the PPI was sold to him during the same 
meeting in which he arranged the finance for the car.
Ive seen a copy  of the HP agreement that Mr B signed during the meeting.  However  the 
section for PPI has been crossed through, indicating that it was not required at that time. Mr 
B says the adviser told him that they cross  it out on the loan agreement  and then complete a 
separate application for PPI. Because  weve  dealt with other complaints about PSA, weve  
seen finance agreements where  the PPI section hasnt been crossed through  and where the 
policy has been set up as a result  of an applicant signing in that section. Therefore Im not 
persuaded that PSAs usual process was as Mr B says he was told. And even if a separate 
form had been  filled in, the PPI and loan would still have been set up at the same time, 
rather than the policy being set up three weeks later as it was in this case. Therefore, overall  
I am not persuaded that Mr B was sold the policy during the meeting. The available  evidence  
suggests that he was sold it at a later time. On balance I find that Mr B probably  took the 
policy out by filling in a postal application  form.
PSA has provided a sample of the type of application form that would have been in use at 
the time.  From the wording of the leaflet, it is clear  that the finance has already been agreed.  
Therefore I consider  that Mr B would have known that having the policy was not a condition  
of the lending.
I have no doubt  that Mr B has provided his honest  recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Bs memory has faded. 
Ref: DRN74676262Based on the available evidence, I think that Mr B would have known that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to take it out, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even  if he no longer  remembers  doing so.
PSA didnt advise  Mr B to buy the policy,  so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs.  But 
it did need to provide  Mr B with enough information  for him to be able to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr B has said that his employer would have given him six months  full pay, followed by six 
months half pay, if he was off work  sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for.
Mr B has said that he had savings of around  £2,000. But having the policy  would have 
meant that he could  retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings  at what would 
have been a difficult time. Mr B has said that his parents would have paid his car 
repayments, but other people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can 
change. Mr B had another insurance policy. But that offers  protection for a different set of 
risks than the PPI was set up to cover. Overall I consider  that Mr B had a need for the policy 
and could have  benefitted from it.
Its possible that PSA didnt provide  as much information about  the policy as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I consider  that he had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would  have changed his mind.
This means  that PSA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But PSA 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
When the policy was sold,  PSA expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr B about  that. 
Because PSA didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, PSA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  PSA Finance UK Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But PSA Finance UK Limited does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467626