K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc lost his telephone banking  security code. He is unhappy 
that he has been unable to use telephone banking services.
background 
Mr R called TSB on 2 August 2018 to ask whether a cheque had cleared. He was unhappy 
that he was not asked  for digits from his telephone security code, but was instead asked 
another security  question, which he failed. During the call Mr R was incorrectly told hed 
never had a security  code. 
Mr R complained to TSB. He didnt get a response, so he brought his complaint to us. One 
of our investigators spoke  with TSB who advised that Mr Rs security  code was on its system 
and he could still use telephone banking services.  She didnt uphold  the complaint.  TSB 
reviewed its records; it advised that Mr R had been de-registered  for telephone banking  in 
error and his security  code had been deleted. TSB offered to pay Mr R £150 compensation. 
A second investigator thought this offer was fair.
Mr R disagreed; he asked  for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.  Mr R says that he is 
still unable to use telephone banking as TSB has not restored his old security  code, nor had 
it sent him a new security  code. He is also unhappy  with the way that TSB handled his 
complaint. He wants TSB to pay him £500  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  TSB has made  a 
fair offer.
Mr Rs strength of feeling is clear,  and he has provided very detailed submissions. I have 
looked at what  he has said.  However,  we are an informal complaint-handling  service, as 
such I do not intend to respond to every point  raised but will focus on the issues that I think 
are relevant  to the outcome of the complaint.
de-registration of Mr Rs telephone  banking  services 
When Mr R called TSB on 2 August 2018  its system showed he had not been registered  for 
telephone banking services and the security code entry  was blank. Mr R disputed  this as he 
had used the service  before. Mr R says his security  code  was lost as part of the IT issues  
TSB had.  
After our involvement, TSB carried out an investigation. It found from previous complaints 
notes that Mr R had referred to telephone  banking. TSB accepts that Mr R had been de-
registered from telephone banking in error  and was incorrectly told on 2 August 2018 that he 
never had a security  code. 
Unfortunately, TSB has been unable to establish  exactly why Mr R had been de-registered 
for telephone banking  but says it may have been caused by the system migration problems it 
had in 2018. TSB offered  to pay Mr R £150  compensation for the inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN75726602Mr R has experience working with IT systems,  he says that TSB should be able to retrieve 
the deleted security code  from its backup  files. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Rs experience,  TSB 
has advised that it is unable to retrieve Mr Rs deleted security code and as its system 
shows he is no longer  registered for telephone banking  services, he needs  to contact it to re-
register and a new security code will be sent to him in the post.
Mr R has asked our service to comment on whether the loss of his security code is a breach 
of data protection laws. It is not our role to decide whether there has been  a breach of data 
protection laws or to impose fines in respect  of any breaches, this is the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO). Mr R may wish to raise this with them directly. We 
can consider whether  it is fair and reasonable to tell a business to pay compensation or take 
some action to put things  right, to recognise  the impact of whats  happened  to the consumer, 
and Ive considered  this below.
service provided during  calls on 2 August  2018
Mr R is unhappy with the customer services received  during  his calls with TSB.  Ive listened 
to the relevant calls to see what happened.
On the 2 August 2018 Mr R called TSB telephone banking to confirm  whether a cheque  had 
cleared. Mr R was initially  asked a security  question about a recently debited cheque. Mr R 
questioned why he was being  asked about an item on his account  that he was calling to 
query. He was unhappy that he was not asked for selected digits  from his security code. The 
advisor said there was no record  of him having a security code. Mr R wanted  the advisor to 
find out what happened to his security  code, but she could not look into this, as Mr R had not 
yet passed security.
The advisor asked  Mr R another security question, this time the amount  of a direct  debit.  
Unfortunately, Mr R answered this question  incorrectly. He subsequently checked  his 
statement and gave  the correct answer,  but the advisor said she could not access  his 
account because  he had already failed security. Mr R asked to be put through to a manager, 
who repeated what  the advisor had said. He was then transferred to the complaints team, 
who logged  his complaint. 
Mr R was unhappy that TSB said it could not access his account because he failed security.  
TSB offered the following alternative  options  to Mr R; he could call back and attempt to pass 
security again, he could visit his local branch along  with ID, it could send  him a one-time 
security code by text to a mobile phone or it could re-register him for telephone banking 
services and send him a new security code by post.
 
Mr R did not find any of the options  offered by TSB to be reasonable. He says TSB should 
have accepted his subsequent correct answer or should have  asked him another  security 
question. I can understand why he thinks TSB should have taken a more pragmatic 
approach. But Mr R did not answer  the first question  about the cheque and answered the 
second question  about the direct debit incorrectly  and TSB did offer him alternatives in 
order that he could  access his account. 
I appreciate that not all options offered by TSB were suitable,  as Mr R did not have a mobile 
phone and was housebound, so couldnt go into branch. Mr R says it was unfair for TSB to 
ask him to have to call back as he would have to join the queue  again. I appreciate  that this 
would have been inconvenient, but I do not think it was unreasonable  for TSB to ask Mr R to 
call back to go through security again.
Ref: DRN75726603Mr R declined TSBs offer to re-register him for telephone banking  and issue him a new 
security code. He wanted TSB to retrieve his old security code. TSB advised that it is unable  
to do this. In the circumstances, I do not think it was unreasonable for TSB to offer to re-
register him and send him a new security code in the post.
As Mr R failed  security, TSB could not access his account. In the circumstances, I think  that 
TSB offered reasonable options to try to help Mr R, I dont uphold  this part of his complaint.  
TSBs handling of Mr Rs complaint
Mr R raised his complaint  with TSB in August  2018, it sent him several holding letters, but it 
did not send him a response to his complaint.  But Im afraid complaint
handling isnt a regulated  activity. Under our rules I dont have the power to consider  how 
TSB handled his complaint, so I wont comment further on this.
TSBs offer of £150 compensation  
Mr R does not think that TSBs offer to pay £150  compensation  is fair. He says this does not 
reflect that he is still without a telephone security code. Mr R wants TSB to pay him £500 
compensation. 
There is no dispute that TSB de-registered  Mr Rs telephone banking in error  and it 
incorrectly told him he never had a security code. To decide what  compensation is fair, Ive 
looked at the impact  on Mr R and also considered  whether there were any steps Mr R could 
reasonably take to minimise the impact of TSBs errors.
When Mr R called on 2 August 2018, he wanted to know whether his cheque  had cleared. 
He confirmed that he got his statement with this information two weeks  later.  But Mr R 
wanted the information during the call, so I can understand  his frustration at not getting it. If 
TSB had not deleted  Mr Rs security  code this would not have happened. However, three 
members of TSB staff told Mr R that it could answer  his account query if he called  back and 
went through security  again. So, although Mr R feels strongly about the inconvenience of 
calling back, it was his choice not to call back on the same  day to get the information about  
his cheque.
I can appreciate how frustrating it would have been  for Mr R to be told there  was no record 
of him having a security code and to learn  that he was no longer  registered for telephone 
banking. Mr R says that TSBs error has meant he has been unable to use telephone 
banking.
Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements from July 2018 to January 2019, it doesnt look like 
being de-registered  stopped him from using his account, as much as he did before. And 
during the call Mr R confirmed that he didnt use telephone banking  often. In addition, TSB 
did confirm during the call on 2 August 2018, that Mr R could still call TSB if he had any 
account queries,  without  a security number, and he would be asked other  security  questions.  
So, although  Mr R could  not make payments without a security  code,  he could still use 
telephone banking.
TSB offered to register Mr R again for telephone  banking and issue him a new security  code  
on 2 August 2018; Mr R declined  this offer. So, Ive taken into account  that Mr R could have 
been registered again and been sent a new security code within  a week of his call. 
Ref: DRN75726604Our investigator recommended that TSB should register  Mr R for telephone  banking and 
send him a new security  code, but TSB let us know that Mr R would now need to call to re-
register himself.  And I can see that we have given Mr R the number he needs to call. So, 
whilst I accept that TSBs error will cause Mr R the inconvenience of having to re-register 
and wait for a new code,  I dont think it is fair to hold TSB responsible for the delay in being 
re-registered for telephone banking, as Mr R could  have  taken  steps to minimise this delay. 
I do think Mr R has been caused  frustration and inconvenience as a result  of TSBs errors.  
So, I agree  that Mr R is entitled to compensation regarding this. Mr R doesnt think  £150 
offered by TSB is enough  to compensate  him for everything hes experienced. I understand 
Mr Rs strength of feeling on this matter, but I should  explain that its not within our remit to 
fine or punish businesses. Having considered everything,  I think that £150 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and order  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr R £150 
compensation.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7572660