K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the handling of the end of the term of their mortgages with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham  Midshires  and the transfer of their residential 
mortgage to Bank of Scotland plc trading as Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland and Birmingham Midshires are not separate  legal entities. They are trading 
styles of Bank of Scotland plc, a legal entity  and regulated firm. But as a matter of internal 
organisation and commercial choice (and as a result of the merger of previously separate 
entities), Bank of Scotland plc has chosen  to treat itself as three separate lenders  
Birmingham Midshires, Bank of Scotland, and Halifax   and the three have separate 
branding, product ranges  and public faces.  In this decision Ill refer to Birmingham Midshires 
as BM, Bank of Scotland  as BoS and the firm which is both of them as BoS plc. 
background
At the time this complaint began, Mr and Mrs H had mortgages on three properties, all with 
BM. One is a residential mortgage on their current home, one a let property which is their 
former home,  and one a let investment property. All the mortgages  are interest only.
In 2017, as the terms of each of the mortgages  came to an end, Mr and Mrs H were 
contacted by BM to discuss plans for repayment. Mr and Mrs H wanted  extensions of the 
terms of each of them,  and it is out of those discussions that this complaint arises.
Mrs H has an adult son who is autistic and has learning disabilities. Theyve  explained that 
he lives with them and their teenage  daughter and is not capable of living  independently. 
Theyve explained that their current home  is very important to them as its the right size, 
location and layout for all the family  to be able to cope with their circumstances.
It is very important to their son  and, by extension, to the whole family   that there  be 
stability and continuity  in their lives. So there is currently  no question, as far as they are 
concerned, of them considering selling their home to repay the mortgage. They are also 
unwilling to sell the buy to let properties because  of the income they provide, and the 
obligations Mr and Mrs H consider they have  to their tenants.  They  have no other  means  
such as endowments or other investments  of repaying the mortgages.
As a result, Mr and Mrs H wanted to extend the term of all their mortgages. They  began  
discussions with BM on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs H had a series  of phone calls with BM, and Mr and Mrs H also visited a branch.  
Unfortunately, the discussions  broke down. BM was prepared to extend the term of the buy 
to let mortgages  and has since done  so. But it wasnt prepared to extend the term of the 
residential mortgage. It said that Mr and Mrs H would have to move their mortgage to BoS 
via what it described as the specialist re-mortgage process. Its since  explained to us that 
this is because BM is no longer active in the residential mortgage  market.  It specialises in 
buy to let lending.  It no longer  offers  new interest rates or other  changes  to existing 
residential mortgages. Instead,  it wants borrowers to move  to other parts  of BoS plc  such 
as BoS. Mr and Mrs H say this wasnt explained  to them at the time; they were  just told they 
had to move  their mortgage to BoS.
Unfortunately, the process didnt go smoothly. There was a conversation on 19 May 2017, 
which Mr and Mrs H say ended in an agreement  to extend the term of all the mortgages   
Ref: DRN70865742including moving  the residential one to BoS. So they expected the term to be extended.  But 
BoS didnt have the same understanding of the discussion. It said it had agreed only to 
consider extending the term and moving the residential mortgage to BoS  but that would be 
subject to an application, which would include a full affordability assessment.
Following that conversation, a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs H on BoS headed paper dated 
22 May 2017. That letter enclosed an income  and expenditure  form completed during the 
call on 19 May, and asked  Mr and Mrs H to check its accuracy. It went on to say We use 
this information  to assess your affordability and agree a manageable  way to repay your 
arrears.  The letter was sent in the name of BoSs director  of collections and recoveries. 
Mr and Mrs H took great exception to this letter,  and it contributed to the breakdown  of their 
relationship with BM. They considered it insulting and misleading to suggest they were in 
arrears. They pointed  out that they had never missed a payment on any of their mortgages. 
They wanted  a personal apology from the director who had signed  the letter and an 
acknowledgment that there were no arrears,  and confirmation that their mortgages were  not 
recorded as being in arrears. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  about the letter.  BM said it couldnt find the letter. It had no record 
of it being sent,  and referred Mr and Mrs H to BoS, which referred  them back  to BM.
 
Meanwhile, BoS sent Mr and Mrs H a mortgage  illustration for the new residential BoS 
mortgage to replace their old BM one. Mr and Mrs H were concerned to receive an 
illustration, not an offer,  as they understood that the mortgage had been agreed.  
There were further discussions about Mr and Mrs Hs finances and circumstances, and in 
July BoS issued a mortgage  offer. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the offer,  as they had a 
number of concerns  about it, including:
The wording of the special conditions;
The amount  of the first payment;
That the mortgage is not portable.
Mr and Mrs H made  further complaints about the content of the offer document,  the process  
theyd been put through  and what they saw as the inadequacies of the specialist re-
mortgage process, the assessment of the application, and the handling of their various  
complaints.
Mr and Mrs H said that the application process  itself, and the complaints theyd had to make 
about it, had had a serious impact on them and their family. In particular, they said, their son 
had become very distressed  by the various phone conversations hed overheard and the risk 
to their home if the application wasnt granted. Mr and Mrs H said that because  of his 
disabilities, the whole family should be considered  vulnerable and BM and BoS should  have 
made reasonable adjustments. They said that reasonable adjustments should  have included 
changes to both the process and its outcome, as well as how their complaints were handled. 
As their entire situation, involving all three  properties, was a result  of this they said 
reasonable adjustments should  be made  in respect of all the mortgages.   
Mr and Mrs H also said that they themselves had had to spend an unreasonable amount of 
time dealing  with the process and their complaints about it, and had suffered considerable 
distress, inconvenience  and loss of earnings  as a result. At one point, they estimated they 
had spent over 1,000 hours dealing with their complaint. They have various  detailed  
Ref: DRN70865743criticisms not just of the documents  they received and the process  they were  put through, 
but also the policies and structure of BoS plc and its wider role in the Lloyds Banking Group.  
They have also complained to us and to the Information Commissioners Office about  how 
their personal data has been handled throughout the process.
As I said at the beginning, the respondent to this complaint  is BoS plc  which  is the legal 
entity and regulated firm which trades as both BM and BoS. BoS plc acknowledged some  
failings of customer service  a branch adviser  forwarding information to BoS plcs 
complaints handlers  without Mr and Mrs Hs agreement, and a delay in processing the 
extension to their buy to let mortgages.  In total,  it offered £550 compensation for these 
issues. But it didnt consider it had done anything wrong in the handling of the extension  of 
the residential mortgage. It would still consider an application  to transfer it to BoS, but it 
couldnt remain with BM.
Our investigator said all the mortgages should  remain with BM, and be extended  for six 
years. Mr and Mrs H accepted that though said theyd have preferred longer. The 
investigator also recommended  BM pay Mr and Mrs H £750 compensation, which they didnt 
accept. They  considered the compensation should be at least  £5,000  the lower limit of the 
extreme band of illustrative awards  on our website. They said the problems with their 
mortgage had had a drastic  impact on them and their family,  and they had spent at least  
1,000 hours dealing with the situation and subsequent complaints. As neither BoS plc nor Mr 
and Mrs H accepted  the investigators recommendation, the case  came  to me for a final 
decision to be made.
my provisional decision
Ive set out my provisional findings at the end of this decision. They  form part of my decision 
and in what follows Ill elaborate on them and set out where the parties have disagreed and 
my thoughts on that, but I wont repeat my provisional findings at length. 
In summary,  I said:
I can only consider things that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Bank of Scotland 
(BoS) or Birmingham Midshires (BM) is responsible for  not any complaints Mr and 
Mrs H might have  about companies  in the wider Lloyds banking group. And I can 
only consider complaints  about the mortgage itself, not how BoS plc handled  Mr and 
Mrs Hs subsequent complaints;
I take into account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules guidance and 
standards, codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice 
at the time. But I do so in order to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  Its for the courts, not for me, to make findings on matters of 
law  but I didnt  think it was likely a court would find that BoS plc was required to 
make reasonable adjustments to how it treated Mr and Mrs H in respect of their 
mortgage because  of their sons disabilities, as hes not a party  to the mortgage;
BoS plc sent an inappropriate  standard letter suggesting Mr and Mrs H were  in 
arrears when they werent,  and I could understand why that was upsetting. But they 
werent in arrears and  that letter aside  werent treated by BM or BoS as if they 
were;
BM and BoS carried  out a fair process to try to understand Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances and why they couldnt  or didnt want to  repay their residential 
interest only mortgage at the end of the term. At the end of that process, it offered to 
extend the residential mortgage by five years,  and extended the buy to let mortgages  
Ref: DRN70865744to match. I thought that was a fair outcome  but that the extension should have been  
for seven  years rather than five or the six proposed by the investigator;
The offer document BoS sent Mr and Mrs H was a standard document. Mr and Mrs H 
had some concerns  with it, but I didnt think there was any foundation  for their 
concerns. And I thought it was reasonable that BoS plc wanted to move  the 
mortgage from BM to BoS  and in fact, since it gave them  more  flexibility,  that 
benefitted Mr and Mrs H as well;
However, since the re-mortgage was from BM to BoS, which  are both BoS plc, I 
didnt think that BoS plc had satisfactorily explained why the instruction of solicitors  
was necessary;
I accepted that Mr and Mrs H had been  caused real and genuine upset, not least  by 
the arrears letter. But I also thought  some  of that, and the investment of time theyd 
put into it, was caused  by the way theyd  chosen  to present their complaint rather 
than by anything  BoS plc had done. In the circumstances, I thought compensation  of 
£500 was fair.
the banks response to my provisional decision
BoS plc agreed  with most of my recommendations. It provided further explanation as to why 
it considered legal work necessary  but it didnt think legal work would come  at any cost to 
Mr and Mrs H since this was a simple  re-mortgage  with no complicating  factors (such as 
changing the parties to the mortgage). 
It said the existing  standard  security referred  to BM as the trading style that was originally 
party to the mortgage, and set out the applicable terms and conditions  were the BM ones. As 
different terms and conditions, a different  BoS plc computer system and a different 
description of the lender on the standard security apply with BoS mortgages   even though 
the underlying  firm is the same  it doesnt  think its satisfactory to rely on a BM security  for a 
BoS mortgage. This could be done without  cost to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs Hs response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H sent in a very lengthy and detailed response to my provisional decision. They 
also sent in recordings  of 30 phone calls theyd obtained via a subject  access request for me 
to listen to. Inevitably Ive had to summarise their response here, but I have considered and 
taken into account  everything theyve said.
Mr and Mrs H said that I should separate the case and issue  two separate decisions. There 
was no good reason  why the mortgage  couldnt be extended immediately and remain with 
BM, so I should just tell BM to do that there and then. And then I should deal separately with 
the question of redress to put right everything  that had gone  wrong.
They said I was wrong to suggest that the term of the residential  mortgage ended in 2017  
it was a ten year mortgage taken out in 2008,  so ended in 2018.  After a one year extension,  
it now expires in 2019. Otherwise, I havent gone into sufficient  detail or addressed  the 
evidence.
Mr and Mrs H made  several points about  their recent subject access requests. I wont deal 
with those at any length since the SARs were made after this complaint was brought to us 
and so dont form part of it. If Mr and Mrs H want to make a separate  complaint about  that 
well be able to consider it, though I know theyve been in touch with the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) as well. Mr and Mrs H also said that the complaint should be 
Ref: DRN70865745set up against  Lloyds Bank as the parent company of BoS plc, and that the ICO had said 
that should be done. 
Mr and Mrs H have now received a fuller and more up to date response  to their subject 
access request, including recordings of all the calls theyve had with the bank over the life of 
this application  and its associated complaint  around 30 calls in all from 2017  and 2018.  
Theyve asked that I listen to all the calls.
Mr and Mrs H gave another detailed account of the history  of the application  from their point 
of view, and the circumstances  that led to their concerns about  how it was handled. I wont 
repeat that detailed  history here, but Ive considered what  theyve said carefully. 
Mr and Mrs H said it wasnt right to say they had no other means of repaying the mortgages. 
They said they had pension pots that could be drawn on  Mr H now,  and Mrs H in a few 
years  and also own their business premises.  They  said the bank  was fixated on earned 
income and had overlooked their assets. They see no good reason why their existing 
residential mortgage cant simply remain with BM. And they say they never said they didnt 
accept the July mortgage offer. 
Mr and Mrs H said that it wasnt their definitive  plan to sell the properties and downsize at 
the end of the extended term. They might want to move  before then, depending on whether 
they could find accommodation suitable for their familys  needs. They  might  repay the 
mortgage from their other assets. The bank should  have  ensured that any outcome met their 
familys needs and their need  for certainty  and the absence  of disruption  and so should 
simply have extended  the residential mortgage on existing terms when requested to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  if there was any confusion around the term of the residential mortgage; Im aware 
of when it was taken out, how long it was for and when it ended. When  I said in the 
background of my provisional decision In 2017, as the terms of each of the mortgages  came 
to an end I wasnt intending to suggest  they all ended in 2017  rather, that they were 
approaching their end. The regulator expects  as is good practice  lenders to contact  
interest only borrowers about repayment  well before the end of the term. This is why these 
conversations took place  in 2017 about a mortgage that ended  in 2018.
Ive carefully considered  the further detailed submissions Mr and Mrs H have  provided.  
Theyve provided a detailed response to my provisional decision,  which  Ive briefly 
summarised above. Ive carefully considered everything they say, as I have with all their 
earlier submissions and the other evidence. I recognise that theres much in my provisional  
decision they disagree with, and Ill respond  to some  of that below. But  the phone calls 
apart  theres  no fresh evidence  I havent  already considered. 
As Mr and Mrs H gave  me recordings of all their calls with the bank,  I asked if there were 
particular calls, or passages of calls, that they considered particularly relevant to my 
decision. They didnt  point to any particular call; they wanted  me to listen  to them all.
I dont think its necessary to do that to reach my decision. Ive listened to the calls I consider 
relevant to what I consider I have to decide   which is the fairness of the process and the 
Ref: DRN70865746outcome of the residential term extension. Ive explained why Im not considering in detail 
the later complaints Mr and Mrs H made. But Im conscious that elsewhere  Mr and Mrs H 
have said how important  it is to them that this situation is resolved quickly. I agree. Listening 
to and analysing  every call would delay my ability to bring this complaint to a resolution. I 
dont think its necessary to do that, and Ive focussed on the calls I consider most relevant.
scope of my decision
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H have said about  this. But I havent changed my mind. 
When dealing with a complaint, our powers only stretch to the legal entity being complained  
about  and only where the complainant is eligible to bring  a complaint against that body. As 
I explained in my provisional decision,  this complaint is about a mortgage that Mr and Mrs H 
have with Bank of Scotland plc. They dont have a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC and so 
arent eligible to make a complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC about their mortgage  which, 
in any case, isnt responsible for it. Mr and Mrs H say that the Information Commissioner 
doesnt agree about that. I havent  seen any correspondence from the ICO to that effect. But 
in any case its for the Financial Ombudsman  Service to decide  the scope, extent and 
exercise of our powers  and Im satisfied  this complaint is correctly  set up.
Its also not possible to separate this into two complaints,  or simply to require BoS plc to 
extend the mortgage term and then later deal with the complaint about  how the application 
was handled.  We can only legally require a firm to pay an award, or follow a direction, as 
part of a final decision accepted by the complainant. Its not possible to deal with a complaint 
in parts  or stages  and its not appropriate to direct a firm to take action  or apply any other 
remedy before the complaint has been fully considered. 
the relevant law
I set out in my provisional decision the approach I took to taking into account  the Equality 
Act. Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree and said that BoS plc did need to make reasonable 
adjustments. Their  son is a customer of the bank.  He and his needs should have been  taken  
into account. He is associated with Mr and Mrs H and the bank is required to make 
reasonable adjustments.
Im aware Mr and Mrs Hs son is a banking customer of BoS plc. But this complaint isnt in 
relation to his bank  accounts. Its about Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage,  to which  hes not a party. 
To put in the terms of the Act, BoS plc is engaged  for the purposes of this complaint  in 
providing a service to Mr and Mrs H in respect  of their mortgage, not to their son in respect  
of either  the mortgage (to which hes not a party) or his bank accounts (which  arent the 
subject of this case).  And, as a matter of law, theres  no obligation to make reasonable 
adjustments where the persons to whom  the service is provided are associated  with a 
person with a disability,  rather than themselves having a disability. So I remain  of the view 
that its unlikely  that a court would  find such a duty exists.
Mr and Mrs H said in response  to my provisional  decision that Mr H has a hearing 
impairment. That does  potentially come within the disability provisions of the Equality Act, 
and would create an obligation on the bank to make  reasonable adjustments for him.
This became an issue during the calls which I referred  to in my provisional decision.  But I 
think the bank  did try to make adjustments. On the main application call the adviser  offered 
to call back, including on a different number. He spoke more loudly and clearly. But Mr H 
wanted the call to continue, saying he would use his other ear. The rest of the call 
Ref: DRN70865747proceeded normally and Mr H was able to take a full part in the conversation. Having 
listened to this and other  calls, I dont think theres evidence that Mr Hs hearing impairment 
prevented him being able to discuss his mortgage  with the bank,  and there is evidence that 
reasonable adjustments would have  been  put in place  if needed.
the arrears letter,  the application and the offer
Ive reviewed the evidence and what I said in my provisional decision about these parts  of 
the complaint.  But I havent changed  my mind that the process the bank asked Mr and Mrs H 
to go through  was fundamentally  a fair and appropriate one  the arrears letter apart.
Mr and Mrs Hs personal situation  is a relevant factor. But the starting point,  as it is in any 
case of this sort, is that they borrowed the money  from the bank to finance  their property 
purchase agreeing  that it would be paid back at the end of the term. Its not unreasonable  for 
the bank to expect,  all other things being equal, that that will happen.
Where a term is extended, there are important factors that have to be taken into 
consideration  theyre part of the regulators  rules  and expectations of good practice, 
subject to the exceptions I discussed  in my provisional decision. These factors include 
whether the borrowers will continue  to be able to afford the monthly payments during any 
extended term  and how the money will be repaid at the end.
Its not unreasonable for the bank to want to understand  Mr and Mrs Hs situation,  to see 
why the term should  be extended  and to be reassured that its the appropriate thing to do, 
and whether there are other options. Thats why it had these discussions with Mr and Mrs H, 
and why it wanted to give them advice about the way forward.  
I do appreciate how difficult Mr and Mrs Hs family circumstances are. I understand Mr and 
Mrs H want to maintain maximum flexibility and dont want to be required to sell their 
property to repay the mortgage  at least for some  time. Their net worth does give them  
some options  though using some or all of their pensions to repay  it would affect their 
retirement income, and selling their business premises  or let properties would affect their 
income  but isnt relevant  to their ability to afford the ongoing monthly payments. And even  
if the bank checked their accounts with BoS plc or the wider Lloyds group, that wouldnt tell it 
whether they had finances with other banks.
In my view, having looked at everything  that happened, I think the bank handled the process  
appropriately and sensitively. It took into account Mr and Mrs Hs individual  family situation  
which was the main reason why it agreed  to the term extension rather than insisting  on 
repayment at the end of the original  term. 
moving the mortgage to BoS
Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy that their mortgage will move from BM to BoS. I explained in 
my provisional decision that BoS plc is in the process of moving BM to deal exclusively with 
buy to let mortgages, and that was why it wanted to move Mr and Mrs H to BoS. Even if it 
hadnt proposed  that, I think its likely that the same or a substantially similar process would 
have been gone through.  BM would still have  wanted to understand why the mortgage  
couldnt be repaid,  whether conversion to repayment or term extension was appropriate, and 
what length the term should be extended by if at all. So I dont think  the decision to move  the 
mortgage to BoS significantly  complicated  the application process. 
Ref: DRN70865748I take the point  that Mr and Mrs H would like to retain the ability to port their mortgage in the 
future. Thats not a definite plan,  though  they want to keep the option. Their existing BM 
mortgage was portable,  because there were early repayment charges applicable during its 
first three years. The new BoS mortgage does not have  early repayment charges, and there 
is therefore no need to include portability to avoid having to pay an ERC.
If Mr and Mrs H decided to downsize before the end of the extended term,  they could 
discuss with BoS whether  it would be willing to grant them  a new mortgage on the new 
property at that time. Since it would be a replacement for an existing mortgage, the 
transitional arrangements in the regulators rules would apply and there would be no need 
for an affordability assessment or assessment of repayment strategy if the change  was 
otherwise in their best interests. 
Since this is not currently Mr and Mrs Hs plan, the issue  is hypothetical  and Im not going to 
tell BoS what  the outcome of any future application should be. But I dont think  the absence  
of a specific power to port would necessarily  prevent them  downsizing  in the future as part of 
a managed strategy to repay their mortgage.  So I dont think  this is a compelling reason why 
it would  be unfair to move the mortgage to BoS.
the need for conveyancing
Mr and Mrs H say they havent made any complaints to the solicitors. I dont have any 
evidence from the solicitors, and I have  no reason to doubt what they say about this. But as I 
said in my provisional decision, theyve complained about the solicitors to BoS plc.
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think the use of solicitors was necessary  to 
convert a standard security in the name of Bank of Scotland  plc to a standard security in the 
name of Bank of Scotland plc. Ive checked  the title entry at the Registers of Scotland  and it 
confirms that the security  is in the name of Bank of Scotland plc  BM is referred  to, but as 
part of the address for service,  not as part of the name of the security holder. Ive considered  
what BoS plc has said about this but Im not persuaded  that its necessary to replace the 
standard security  where the lender  is the same legal entity  and any change in the terms 
and conditions can be given effect by agreement  as part of the acceptance of an offer from 
BoS. 
Mr and Mrs Hs trouble  and upset
I dont agree with Mr and Mrs H that I can award  compensation for the impact  of this process 
on their son, or that I can choose  to set aside our rules  about this. Im not persuaded that I 
should increase  the amount I said in my provisional decision that I intended to award. I think  
the arrears letter was unnecessary, shouldnt have been sent and caused real upset. But I 
dont think the rest of the application process was unfair or badly handled. I think  its 
reasonable for BoS plc to increase  the compensation  it has offered from £250 to £500  this 
is in addition to the £300 it separately  offered for the complaint Mr and Mrs H made  about  
information a branch  advisor sent to the banks  main processing  centre.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to:
Ref: DRN70865749Extend the term of Mr and Mrs Hs residential  mortgage for seven years from the 
date of its initial expiry in 2018.  Bank  of Scotland  plc may move the mortgage from 
Birmingham Midshires to Bank of Scotland as part of the extension  under the same 
standard security;
Extend the term of Mr and Mrs Hs buy to let mortgages with Birmingham Midshires 
so that they expire  at the same  time as the revised term of the residential mortgage;
Increase the offer of compensation  of £250  to £500  in addition to the £300 
separately awarded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN708657410my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
introduction
Mr and Mrs H have set out their complaint at length and in detail. Their complaint letter  alone runs to 
around 120 pages, plus enclosures, and includes detailed  line-by-line critiques  of correspondence 
from BM and BoS.  Its been followed up by a series of further documents in similar  vein.  
Ive noted the care and thoroughness with which theyve made  their complaint, which  has enabled me 
to see exactly what it is theyre unhappy about and why. I hope  they wont  take it as a discourtesy  that 
its not possible for me to include the same level of detail,  or reply to every point thats been made, in 
my final decision. 
As the law that created the Financial Ombudsman Service says, our role is to investigate complaints 
with minimum formality. Ours is an informal process. My aim  my obligation  in resolving  complaints 
is to look at everything that has happened, and decide what  I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. That inevitably involves looking  at a complaint in the round, as well as 
considering the detail.  So while I havent set out, and wont reply to, every point that Mr and Mrs H 
have made,  I believe Ive captured and summarised the heart of their complaint. Ill now set out how I 
think it should  be resolved.
scope of my decision
Ill start by setting out what I cant consider. 
Mr and Mrs H have addressed much  of their complaint not only to BM, but also Bank of Scotland and 
the wider Lloyds Banking Group. BM and Bank of Scotland are both trading styles  of the firm Bank of 
Scotland plc. Bank  of Scotland plc is in turn part of the Lloyds Banking Group  but its a separate firm 
owned by Lloyds,  not a trading style of Lloyds. When we consider complaints, we can only consider 
complaints about the actions of the firm complained  about. Theres typically a relationship between  
the firm and the complainant,  such as they are a customer of the firm or they have applied to that firm 
to become a customer. In this case, Mr and Mrs H are customers  of Bank of Scotland  plc (which 
trades as both Bank of Scotland and BM). In respect of their mortgages,  Mr and Mrs H are not 
customers of Lloyds.
Any complaints about Lloyds itself, or other firms in the Lloyds Banking Group, would need to be dealt 
with as complaints  against  those firms   and in any case,  this complaint arises out of the mortgage 
with Bank of Scotland plc. So Mr and Mrs H arent customers of any other Lloyds group business in 
relation to their mortgage  complaint  and, therefore, we wouldnt be able to consider complaints 
about those firms on matters arising  out of the mortgages. 
With exceptions not relevant here, we can only consider complaints where  the complaint arises out of 
a customer relationship a complainant has with a particular firm. I understand why Mr and Mrs H think 
Lloyds, as the parent group, should take some  responsibility for how theyve  been treated. But our 
investigator was right that the proper respondent   and the only firm we can consider  this complaint 
against  is Bank of Scotland plc, in its incarnations as BoS and BM. 
In any case I dont think  that makes  a substantial difference to the outcome, since this complaint is at 
its heart about the mortgage  with BM  which is therefore responsible for this complaint. So any 
findings I make here will solely  be about BM, BoS and Bank of Scotland plc  not the wider Lloyds 
group. I have no power to make wider  findings as part of this complaint. Nor am I able to make wider 
findings about  perceived systemic issues or changes Mr and Mrs H think  Bank of Scotland  plc or 
Lloyds Banking Group should  make  to their policies  and procedures. All I can consider is whether  
Ref: DRN708657411Bank of Scotland  plc trading  as Birmingham Midshires and as Bank of Scotland acted  fairly in the 
individual circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs H have complained about  the time BM took to deal with their various  complaints,  as well 
as how the complaints have been handled. Their  complaints include the process  for raising and 
escalating complaints,  who has replied, whether calls back have been made, and what they perceive 
as structural inadequacies in BMs complaints  handling  processes. They  also complain that the 
Equality Act required it to make adjustments to its processes, which it failed to do.
The handling of complaints isnt something that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider.  The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys complaint  handling  rules require firms to have a complaints procedure 
to investigate complaints about the provision of financial services, and say that where  a firm cant 
resolve the complaint we have the power  to do so. 
But the rules that set out our powers prescribe what we can and cant look at  and while  the 
underlying financial service falls within  our jurisdiction,  the handling  of complaints about them doesnt. 
So we cant consider complaints about how complaints  are handled. What we look at is the provision 
of the service itself. As part of that, we consider  whether we agree  with the resolution  the firm has 
offered (if any)  but thats about the outcome of the firms investigation, not the conduct of it.
I would just observe, though, that the rules allow firms eight weeks to investigate and attempt to 
resolve a complaint. And it seems to me that this is what BM has done  though not always to Mr and 
Mrs Hs satisfaction.  If theyre not happy about BMs attempts at resolution, they can then complain  to 
us, as in fact they have done, and well consider  whether the outcome  should be different.
my role and the relevant  law
My role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our rules say that, in doing so, I 
must take into account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules  guidance and standards, codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.  But while I must  take 
them into account, Im not constrained by any of them if I consider fairness  requires  me to depart from 
them.
Equally, Im not a court  of law or carrying  out a judicial role. We provide  an informal dispute resolution  
service which  is an alternative to the courts.  So while  the Equality Act is at the heart of a significant 
part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, its not for me to make a formal determination  as to whether BoS plc 
 acting either as BoS or as BM  is in breach of the Act. Formal findings on matters  of law are for the 
courts, not for me. Nonetheless, the Equality Act is relevant law for me to take into account, and I do 
so.
My understanding of the Act is that it prohibits  various forms  of discrimination on the basis of the 
protected characteristics  of which disability  is one. Where the protected characteristic  is disability, 
there is also an obligation on providers  of services (such as banks) to make  reasonable adjustments  
in how their services are provided  to allow those with the protected characteristic to access  their 
services.
However, I dont think its likely a court  would find that the Act applies in this case. Theres no 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs H themselves have any disability  and they are BoS plcs customers, 
and asking for adjustments to be made to its practices. Their  son, who does have disabilities, is not a 
customer of BoS plc, at least in respect of these mortgages, and has had no dealings with BoS plc 
himself in respect of the mortgages. 
There is an obligation under the Act not to discriminate against those  associated with persons with a 
protected characteristic. In other  words, Mr and Mrs H could be discriminated against because theyre  
associated with their son who has disabilities.  
Ref: DRN708657412But they havent suggested theyve been discriminated against  because of their sons disabilities.  
Rather, theyve suggested that his disabilities create a positive duty on BoS plc  both as BoS and as 
BM  to make reasonable  adjustments to its usual practices. But its my understanding of the law that 
the Act only requires a service provider  to make  reasonable adjustments  for those  who themselves  
have a disability, not those associated with a person who has a disability. If Mr and Mrs Hs son was 
its customer, BoS plc would need to consider making reasonable  adjustments in how it dealt with him. 
But it doesnt,  as a matter of law, need to make adjustments in how it deals with his parents. As a 
result, I think  its unlikely a court would find that BoS plc has a duty to make reasonable adjustments 
for Mr and Mrs H in how it provides its services to them.
That said, BoS plc  both as BM and BoS  was aware  of Mr and Mrs Hs family situation.  Its part of 
the factual background of the case, and is something Ill take into account  when thinking about  
whether it treated them fairly. As I said, my role is to take the law into account   but ultimately to 
decide what  I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
the arrears letter
Ill deal with the arrears  letter first, because its a discrete part of the complaint. The reasons why it 
was sent are part of the wider complaint  about the process the residential mortgage was put through. 
But the content  of the letter  itself is something I can deal with separately to that.
Mr and Mrs H complain they were sent a letter dated 22 May 2017, after they say there had been an 
agreement on 19 May to extend their mortgages, accusing them  of being in arrears. 
BM says there was no definite agreement to extend on that date; there was an agreement  to consider 
doing so. It hadnt agreed to an extension. Ill deal with who I think  is right about that below. At this 
stage, its enough to note that BM didnt believe there was a definite offer,  and so it wanted to know 
more information as part of its consideration.
Among other things, it wanted to know  more about their finances, so asked  for a statement of their 
income and expenditure.  To do that, it sent its standard letter. This letter  included the paragraph 
about arrears   because it was a standard letter, and income and expenditure  information is more  
usually requested in the context of working  with customers  in arrears.
Clearly, that was an error in this case. Banks are entitled to use standardised  documents  but if they 
do so, theres  a risk they wont be appropriate for every situation. Thats what happened here. I dont 
think BM ever believed  Mr and Mrs H were in arrears,  recorded their accounts as being in arrears, or 
intended to suggest that they were, but that was the effect of the letter, and I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs H were  upset  by it. Theyve described it as a serious false  allegation and they want a 
personal apology from the banks head  of collections. 
I dont think BM was alleging they were in arrears, or ever suggested to anyone  other than Mr and 
Mrs H, or to Mr and Mrs H other than in this letter, that they were. I dont think  BM treated them as if 
they were other than the use of this letter.  I think it was simply an inappropriate  use of a standard  
letter which didnt cover  Mr and Mrs Hs particular situation. 
The follow up letter on 31 May 2017 was, in my view,  reasonable of itself in terms of its contents. It 
set out the information needed to complete the review of the mortgage  so that it could be decided  
whether or not to extend it. Mr and Mrs H have complained it was not individualised, but as Ive said 
banks can use standard letters to make standard requests  and the information needed to consider 
financial circumstances when reviewing a mortgage is fairly standard.
However, there wasnt any need for this letter  to have been sent either. Thats because Mr H had 
already been through a lengthy discussion of their finances on a call with BM on 19 May. I think  that 
BMs systems were sending automated letters because Mr and Mrs H were  nearing the end of their 
mortgage term  but in this case this letter wasnt necessary because  this information had already  
Ref: DRN708657413been given and they had already  begun the process of extending their mortgage.  So use of a 
standardised letter  resulted  in something inappropriate  for the particular  situation being sent. 
the application process 
In a series of calls on 19 May, BM spoke first to Mrs H then to Mr H. Ive listened to the calls. On his 
call, Mr H made clear  that he was unhappy about being taken through  a mortgage application process  
because he didnt want any record of it being on his credit file in case an application  was rejected or in 
case he decided  to move  to another lender.  He insisted on the call being  a discussion of options  
without a formal application  being submitted or considered. 
There followed a discussion of Mr and Mrs Hs income  and expenditure. At the end of the discussion 
the adviser said that the discussion showed that converting the mortgage to repayment terms 
wouldnt be affordable, and wasnt  likely  to be in the future. He considered extending the term for two 
years to allow a further review, but as it was unlikely to be affordable to switch  to repayment at that 
point either,  he thought  an extension of five years was the better  option. The adviser said this was 
because it would allow stability for the family taking into account Mr and Mrs Hs sons position  and 
their daughters schooling, and was the maximum  period he was authorised to offer.  
The call concluded  as the adviser had another appointment. It was agreed that it would  continue 
around two weeks later with a discussion about what interest rates might be available if the mortgage  
was extended.
Mr and Mrs H said in their complaint that there was a firm offer to extend all their mortgages  on this 
date following this call. And so it should have been implemented from then. But as Ive set out above,  
that doesnt reflect what was actually  discussed. The process hadnt been finished, because  interest 
rates hadnt been discussed.  And Mr H had insisted  that no application  be made at that stage; he just 
wanted to be presented  with options  and (interest rate apart) he was presented with what the 
adviser considered the best option.
So I dont agree  that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgages were extended from 19 May, or that there was a firm 
agreement that they would be. Rather, the adviser had confirmed that  if Mr and Mrs H decided to 
apply, and agreed  for credit checks to be made  the extensions would  be what  they would be 
offered. Thats why they were subsequently sent an illustration, not a mortgage offer. The application 
process completed later, and culminated  in the July offer.
In the next call, Mr H made much of the description of information  he was sent by the bank about how 
his personal  data would be processed as a disclosure . He considered that word  to have a specific 
meaning in law, which  didnt  cover the information  he was given, and he took exception to that at 
length. Its something Mr and Mrs H dealt with in detail in their complaint  letters too. But I dont think  
theres anything in this complaint. Its true that the word disclosure has the specific meaning  Mr H 
ascribed to it. But thats not the only meaning of the word. Its also a perfectly ordinary English word to 
describe something  thats disclosed;  some  information given. And Im satisfied that its in that sense 
that the bank used  the word.
Ive thought about the application process Mr and Mrs M were put through. As I said above,  I dont 
think there was any obligation to make reasonable adjustments within the meaning of the Equality 
Act. Having listened to the phone  calls, I think they were as sensitively handled as Id expect.  
Mr and Mrs H had some  difficulty in hearing the adviser, though he had no problems hearing  them. I 
dont know why that was, but theres  no evidence  it was because of a fault with BoS plcs systems 
rather than, for example, the line in between or Mr and Mrs Hs equipment. The adviser tried to 
resolve the problem by calling back and then by speaking  up, and the conversation  was able to go 
ahead. BoS plc doesnt  have  the facility  to manage its mortgages through branches,  so there was no 
way of doing  it there. And if having these conversations at their home caused Mr and Mrs H difficulty  
they could have arranged  to take the calls at their work or otherwise away from the home.
Ref: DRN708657414As regards  the application process itself, there are rules of mortgage regulation that are relevant  here. 
Whether Mr and Mrs Hs residential mortgage  moved to BoS or stayed with BM, it would remain  with 
the same firm, BoS plc. The rules operate at the level of a firm  not at the level of brands a firm 
chooses to separate itself into.
So even if their residential  mortgage moved from BM to BoS, it would  stay with the same firm. The 
rules of mortgage regulation  say that theres no requirement to carry out an affordability assessment 
when varying a mortgage, or replacing it with a new one with the same firm  where the change  is 
otherwise in the borrowers best interests. Equally, however, while the rules say theres no 
requirement to carry one out (subject to best interests), they dont say that one must not be done.
BoS plc has explained that it didnt carry out an affordability  assessment in this case  just because 
there was a term extension, or just because  there was a change from BM to BoS.
Rather, it says,  it was giving Mr and Mrs H mortgage advice  as it does with customers who have 
reached the end of their interest only mortgages. In such cases, it doesnt just consider  whether or not 
to extend the term. A term extension would only be necessary if a borrower doesnt have  or doesnt 
yet have  a means of repaying the mortgage  capital.  So it also considers whether its possible to 
convert some or all of the mortgage to repayment terms  which in turn involves considering whether  
its affordable to do so.
In Mr and Mrs Hs case, it clearly wasnt. The call of 19 May demonstrated that, without taking into 
account their sons benefits, and without possible  but uncertain  future  increases in income, Mr and 
Mrs Hs outgoings already  exceeded their income. So they couldnt  afford  to commit  to repaying some  
or all of the mortgage capital as well as the interest.
Nevertheless, it was in my view in their best interests for BoS plc to have considered that. So it was 
reasonable for BoS plc to look at their income  and expenditure and their wider  circumstances to see 
whether and how the mortgage could  be repaid. Once that assessment had taken place, the adviser  
accepted that converting to repayment wasnt affordable, and said he would  be prepared to offer a 
term extension on interest only terms. So that was the option presented to Mr H at the end of the call.
For those  reasons, I dont think the process BoS plc took Mr and Mrs H through  was unreasonable. 
When they took their mortgage out, theyd agreed to repay it at the end of the term. Theyd  reached 
the end of the term and couldnt do so without selling  their property,  which  they very much didnt want 
to do. BoS plc looked  at all their circumstances  to see if something could  be done without simply 
leaving them  to end up in exactly the same position in a few years  time. 
As nothing  else could  be done,  and as Mr and Mrs H confirmed that they did intend to sell the 
property once  their daughters schooling  was complete, in around six or seven years time,  the adviser  
said he would offer the maximum extension he was authorised to offer, of five years.
Ive said the process was fair. But I think more could have been done around the outcome. The 
adviser accepted that an interest only term extension was the appropriate way forward. He accepted 
the need  for that, from the point of view of Mr and Mrs Hs family circumstances. He accepted their 
ultimate repayment plan, of selling the property once their daughters schooling was complete. And he 
accepted that the buy to let mortgage terms should be aligned to the residential one. It seems to me 
the adviser reached the point of determining that an extension of six or seven years was what  was 
needed in this case. This was when Mr and Mrs H said theyd be able to sell their property. But he 
couldnt offer the full amount  of time that would need because his personal authority was limited to 
five years.
I dont think the authority limits BoS plc places  on individual staff members  should  determine  what  is 
suitable mortgage advice.  Given what BoS plc had already accepted,  it would in my view have been 
the right thing to do to ensure the term extension met Mr and Mrs Hs needs, not falling short of them  
by a year or two because he didnt  have authority to go further. If necessary, more senior  authority 
Ref: DRN708657415could have been sought. So I think a slightly longer extension of the terms of all the mortgages would 
have been a fair outcome here.
As it is, the buy to lets have been  extended. But no extension  on the residential mortgage has 
happened, because  Mr and Mrs H didnt follow the application through.
the July mortgage offer
The next stage in the process  was a mortgage  offer,  for a new residential mortgage with BoS over a 
five year term. BoS sent out that mortgage offer in July 2017. But Mr and Mrs H didnt accept  it, 
because they took exception to some of the conditions.
The special conditions set out in the July 2017  mortgage offer are standard  conditions not applicable  
to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. Its not unreasonable for lenders to use standardised documents  
rather than incur the extra  costs of producing individual documents  every time. I think  it was clear that 
the special conditions didnt apply to Mr and Mrs H, since they werent selling any property when they 
sought to extend the term of their mortgage. In effect,  they were  redundant in this case. But use of a 
standard document avoids the expense and scope for error of producing a bespoke  offer every time.
Theres been  no suggestion  that BoS has taken any action, or tried to do so, because  of the special  
conditions and I dont  think there has been any detriment to Mr and Mrs H. I dont think  the existence 
of the special  conditions  made any difference to the offer made to Mr and Mrs H and I dont think  BoS 
acted unfairly  in issuing an offer that contained them.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained  that the BoS mortgage offer wasnt portable. Theyre right, it isnt. 
Generally, the reason  for portability is so that a new mortgage can be taken out, and the interest rate 
moved across to it, to avoid paying an early repayment  charge  (ERC). That didnt apply in this case, 
because the mortgage would be on a lifetime  tracker  (that is, an interest  rate that tracked the Bank of 
England base  rate for the life of the mortgage)  and wasnt  subject to an ERC. So there would  be no 
charge if Mr and Mrs H were  to move  house and repay their mortgage  and no need for portability. 
Their original  BM mortgage  did have an ERC  for the first three  years,  and so did have a portability 
term.
In any case, I think this is a hypothetical problem. Mr and Mrs H have made  very clear that they have 
no intention of selling their property until their daughters  schooling is complete. And theyve stressed 
the importance of their current home to them and their son. Sale of the property is their strategy for 
repaying the mortgage at the end of any extended term, but theyve no intention of selling and porting  
the mortgage in the meantime. So I think the absence of a porting term is academic and causes no 
detriment.
Mr and Mrs H have also questioned the monthly payments set out in the offer. I can understand why 
they were surprised  that the first payment  was higher. I think thats because it allows for a gap 
between the two mortgages while  they are switched  over and the monthly payments re-started.  Its 
not unusual in situations like this. The actual payment, and payment date, would depend on the 
completion date of the mortgage.
The mortgage  offer was for a new mortgage with BoS,  rather  than an extension of the existing 
mortgage with BM. BoS plc has explained that this is because,  since the original mortgage was taken 
out, BM has moved to become a specialist buy to let lender. It doesnt  offer residential mortgages any 
more. It couldnt offer new interest rates if Mr and Mrs H wanted to take one. And its winding down  its 
residential lending, either as mortgages are paid off or as theyre moved  to BoS.
I dont think this is unreasonable. It benefits Mr and Mrs H for their mortgage to be with BoS, as it 
gives them more future flexibility. And it benefits BoS plc as it enables  its residential and buy to let 
mortgages to be managed  separately. 
Ref: DRN708657416I dont think the move to BoS would cause Mr and Mrs H any detriment. Ive set out above  why I think 
the application process, including  the affordability assessment, was fair. Whether the mortgage was 
extended with BM, or moved to BoS,  the process would have been the same. I dont think,  ultimately, 
it makes any substantial difference whether the mortgage  is with BM or BoS, and so I dont think it 
was unfair for BoS plc to want to move it to BoS as part of the term extension  process.
the use of a solicitor
Mr and Mrs H have complained about  a letter  sent by the solicitors  which were  intended to be used 
for the re-mortgage from BM to BoS.  The letter  says that legal fees are free with the mortgage,  unless 
there were non-routine additional items of legal work  required.  Mr and Mrs H complain they dont 
understand the contents of this letter but think  it gives the solicitors too much leeway to impose 
additional and unexpected costs on them. The solicitors are independent of BM, and if Mr and Mrs H 
are concerned about information the solicitors have  given  them,  or about  costs it has charged, or may 
charge, thats  a matter theyll need  to take up with the solicitors. 
However, Im not persuaded  the use of solicitors  was necessary.  BoS plc had a standard security 
over Mr and Mrs Hs property when the mortgage was with BM, and it would continue to do so when  
the mortgage would be with BoS. In either case, the security would  be registered with the legal  entity 
Mr and Mrs H contracted  with  which is Bank of Scotland plc. I dont see why conveyancing  to 
replace a Bank of Scotland plc standard security with a Bank of Scotland  plc standard  security was 
necessary. BoS plc told me that it was also because there was a change in the terms and conditions 
from BM terms to BoS terms  but again, that could  have  been done without re-conveyancing. The 
new offer would be subject to the new terms and conditions, and by accepting it Mr and Mrs H would  
become bound by them. Conveyancing isnt necessary  to achieve  that.
Mr and Mrs H have made several complaints about the conduct of the solicitors firm nominated  by 
BoS, as well as what they see is its failure to answer  their questions. The conduct of the solicitors  
firm is outside the scope of this decision. But Im not currently persuaded  that appointing one was 
necessary, and caused Mr and Mrs H some trouble and upset.
the nature of the property
I dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs H live in an historic listed property makes any difference  to this 
complaint. It may be a property of interest and historic value. But it secures  the funds  Mr and Mrs H 
owe on their residential mortgage. And it makes no difference to their obligation to repay  the 
mortgage at the end of the term  or the cost to BM if they dont.
Mr and Mrs Hs trouble and upset
Our investigator recommended BoS plc pay Mr and Mrs H £750 compensation. Neither party was 
happy with that; BoS plc thought  it was too much, and Mr and Mrs H too little.
I can only require BoS plc to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation if I think it has done something wrong. 
Ive set out above why I dont think the application process it put them through was unfair. It was 
reasonable  and in my view necessary  to consider how the mortgage would ultimately be repaid.  
To do that it was reasonable  for BM to consider Mr and Mrs Hs finances and whether  it was realistic 
to convert any part of the residential mortgage to repayment terms.
Nothing Ive seen  in the application process was out of the ordinary,  or unusual  in cases of this type. 
Some of the standard letters were unnecessary, one was wrong  and upset Mr and Mrs H. And I 
dont think solicitors  were needed. But, fundamentally, the process  they were put through was not of 
itself unfair or unreasonable.
Im sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Hs family situation.  Ive said why I dont think  it required BoS plc to 
make reasonable adjustments within  the meaning  of the Equality Act to its process.
Ref: DRN708657417Although I dont have any supporting or medical  evidence,  I dont have any reason to doubt that Mr 
and Mrs H found this a stressful time  and the stress they were  feeling, and the process they went  
through  no doubt impacted their family  and their son in particular. Only Mr and Mrs H are party to 
this complaint. Our rules empower  me to award compensation for non-financial  loss to complainants  
for distress, inconvenience, loss of reputation or pain and suffering caused to complainants. I have no 
powers to award compensation  to  or for loss caused  to  third parties. So I can only consider the 
impact of this case on Mr and Mrs H themselves, not their wider family.
I think  what BM asked them to do was reasonable and proportionate   in the context of a mortgage 
Mr and Mrs H had agreed to repay but found themselves unable to repay short of selling their 
property, which they clearly didnt  want to do.
Having listened  to the calls,  and considered  in depth the very detailed correspondence this complaint 
has generated, Im afraid  that I take the view that much of the stress and much of the investment of 
time was caused by Mr and Mrs H themselves,  not by BoS. It put them through a relatively standard 
and normal process to see whether anything could  be done  to assist  them.  Mr and Mrs H found  that 
process objectionable. They  insisted at first that they didnt want to make an application. Then they 
contested the meaning of terms  used by BM and explained at great length why they thought it was 
wrong. They  sent very detailed letters,  including line-by-line  critiques of letters  theyd received from 
BoS and from our investigator. No doubt  this was a very stressful and time consuming thing to do. Its 
their right, of course, to make their complaint in any way they choose.  But I dont think  it would be fair 
to require  BoS plc to compensate them for the consequences of the way Mr and Mrs H chose to 
pursue it.
BoS has offered compensation of £250. I dont think this goes  far enough. The arrears  letter  caused 
real offence and upset. And it wasnt necessary  to require  conveyancing  albeit without charge  to Mr 
and Mrs H. I think compensation of £500 is fair in all the circumstances. To put matters right in this 
case, I think BoS plc should increase its offer of compensation to £500, offer a new BoS mortgage on 
the same terms as the July 2017  offer over seven years from July 2017,  and align the terms of the BM 
buy to let mortgages  with the term of the new BoS residential mortgage. 
Ref: DRN7086574