K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Covea Insurance plc has held her at fault for an accident she says 
wasnt her fault.
background
Miss C was involved in an accident.  She notified  Covea and says she wasnt to blame. Shes  
unhappy with the way Covea investigated and handled the claim and that it accepted she 
was fully to blame.  She says legal precedents support  her. She also says she wasnt  told 
that the claim had been settled. She wants liability changed to 50/50  and compensation for 
the injuries and losses  she suffered, the stress  and inconvenience  shes  been put through.
Covea said in its final response that Miss C had said she had collided with the back of 
another car when it suddenly slowed down.  It had explained this would mean  the claim 
would be recorded  as a fault one on her part. It hadnt been able to get witness  statements  
and was unable  to prove the other party was negligent. But Miss C wasnt told directly  that 
she was liable for the accident. Miss Cs policy allows it to settle a claim as it sees fit. It isnt 
down to the police to decide if this is a 50/50  liability split. Covea had followed its correct  
process and it acted on the information it had. Its liability decision is fair. But it has arranged 
for a gift to be sent to Miss C to reflect if it had said liability  was anything other than her fault 
and any inconvenience  was caused  by that.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Covea was entitled under the terms of the policy to defend or settle any claim.  
The police report doesnt refer to who is deemed  liable. Miss C ran into the back of 
another vehicle  and there arent any witness statements available. In resolving  
matters Covea has applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and he will not 
be asking it to do any more.
As this was a fault claim Miss C isnt covered  by Covea  for her own injuries.  It also 
made her aware of the settlement of the third partys claim. If Miss C still feels  the 
third party  was liable she can take matters to court as the claim was settled on a 
without prejudice  basis.
Covea has acted  fairly and reasonably.
Miss C remains  unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says in summary 
that Covea said it would  try to make this a 50/50  claim. Shes  reiterated  she wasnt  to blame 
and has provided  more evidence and submissions  about what she says happened.  There 
are legal precedents  that support her. Covea said it was settling the claim as the other  side 
had lawyers. The third party clearly caused  the accident. This is borne  out by the evidence.  
Covea hasnt acted  fairly  or reasonably.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72040512Miss C has provided detailed evidence and submissions to support her complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Miss C has very strong views about  what happened  in the incident and says the other party  
was to blame. Shes also provided detailed evidence, submissions and legal precedents 
which she says support her view.  But its not our role to decide  whos  at fault for an accident. 
That is something only a court  can consider.  We can only look into whether Covea has 
conducted a reasonable  investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Covea is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It 
also doesnt need Miss Cs approval of any decision to admit  liability, settle a claim or make 
a payment to a third party. Covea also isnt obliged to take a case to court  even if the policy  
holder would like it to do so. Its entitled  to consider the economics of proceeding to defend  
the case and the potential  costs  and risks of proceeding to court.
Overall I think  Covea  investigated matters reasonably.  It considered the vehicles damage, 
what each party said and obtained the police report.  But it couldnt get any independent  
witness statements. As a result it concluded it didnt think it could successfully  prove Miss C 
wasnt to blame. And it decided to accept liability and settle the other partys claim. I think 
this was in line with what it had effectively said to Miss C when she reported  the claim.  And I 
think it did make clear  to her that it was settling the other partys claim.
Miss C may disagree with Coveas interpretation  of the evidence  and decision to settle the 
claim on a full liability basis  but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or 
exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the case  as its 
done. 
I understand Miss Cs frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think Covea has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything 
more. Overall I dont see a compelling  reason  to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7204051