K821xesure15complaint
Mr A complained about esure Insurance Limiteds  handling of his claim under his motor
insurance policy.
background
Mr As car was damaged while it was parked and esure paid to repair  it. But Mr A thought
that esure and their solicitors took too long to resolve his claim, didnt recover  all his costs
and gave him poor customer service. He felt that hed had to do all the work on the claim
and that it was unfair for him to be left out of pocket when the accident wasnt  his fault. He
felt that the driver responsible for the incident should have to pay all the costs.
He complained to esure who upheld his complaint in part. They accepted that theyd
misinformed him about the excess payable. It seems that they had told him hed have no
excess to pay at that stage, when  in fact he was still liable to pay it as esure hadnt then
recovered the repair costs from the third-party  insurer. So they offered him £75
compensation for that misinformation. However,  when  esure  did later recover  those costs
from the third-party insurer, they waived the excess.
Esure also said theyd instruct solicitors to try to recover Mr As travel  costs. But later they
told Mr A that hed have  to contact the solicitors  direct to see what action they were  taking,
as it wasnt esures responsibility.
Mr A remained unhappy.  He wanted  esure to reimburse his additional travel  costs and
compensate him for their poor customer service and for the time and stress involved in him
trying to resolve his claim. He also complained that esure had increased his premium
because of the accident, but that has been dealt with as a separate  complaint  and so I wont
mention it further  here.
The investigator thought that esure  had handled  Mr As complaint fairly.  She thought that the 
time taken  to resolve it and recover the costs  from the third party  was not unreasonable  and 
their compensation offer of £75 for misinforming Mr A about the excess  was fair. The 
investigator also thought that it wasnt fair to hold esure responsible  for the solicitors  
conduct in relation to recovering Mr As travel costs  as that matter was being  dealt with by 
solicitors, and our service could not consider complaints against solicitors as they were  the 
responsibility of the Legal Ombudsman. Mr A didnt agree and so I was asked to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the case on 20 August  2020  saying that I intended to 
uphold it. Both Mr A and esure responded and the investigator passed  these  responses  on 
for their views. I deal with that below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After the incident  Mr A had both insured and uninsured losses. His insured losses were the
costs of repairing  his car. Esure repaired it and offered him a hire car, which  he declined.
Esure, as is usual, then tried to recover his cars repair costs  from the insurer  of the third
party who was responsible for Mr As cars damage. They were  successful  in this and so
esure considered the case closed.
Ref: DRN76564182But Mr A also had uninsured losses, which are not covered under a car insurance policy.
These normally include a policy  excess - which everyone must pay whether the accident
was their fault or not. It appears that esure did in the end waive  Mr As policy  excess
because they recovered all their repair costs from the third-party  insurer.
Mr A had other uninsured losses. These were for train and taxi fares of about £430  which  he 
said hed incurred because of the damage to his car. He thought that esure  should  pay for 
these as they would have  been cheaper  than the cost of a hire car. 
But esure arent responsible for refunding  his travel costs under the policy.  As such, its open 
to Mr A try to recover them from the third-party responsible  for the accident,  and this can be 
done under  motor legal  protection (MLP) policy insurance. At the time of my provisional 
decision, it wasnt clear  if Mr A had MLP.  So in my provisional decision I said that esure 
should explain to Mr A what his future options  were  as regards recovering his travel  costs, 
including if he has Motor  Legal Protection  insurance  to cover that, and if so, what his options 
were under that policy. 
I see that in their final response  to his complaint esure said to Mr A:
If you send  me the receipt confirming  youve paid for the repairs, Ill reimburse this to you,
and well recover it directly rather than you having to wait for us to recover  it. Similarly, if you
send in your travel tickets,  well try to recover these.
Mr A took this as meaning that esure  themselves would reimburse him his travel  costs, and
so he sent them the receipts.  But esure  seem  to have meant only that they would instruct
solicitors to try to recover  his travel  costs, as uninsured  losses, not that they themselves
would reimburse  Mr A the travel costs.
Since my provisional decision, esure clarified  that Mr A did have  MLP,  but esure agreed to 
fund the recovery  of his uninsured losses themselves anyway. Esures records show that 
they did instruct solicitors  to recover both their own costs (the car repair  costs)  and Mr As 
travel expenses of £430 at the same time. The solicitors did recover esures costs in about  
April 2019 and so esure closed their file. But it was unclear what  happened  to Mr As 
uninsured losses.  Esure  said only to Mr A that the solicitors may still be trying to recover  
your uninsured losses i.e. train fares etc. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  after an insurer instructs a solicitor  the insurers 
role in the claim is usually  limited  to funding the case  fees and outlays and the insurer 
doesnt have day to day control of how the claim is run or the quality of the advice. 
So generally, we dont think that an insurer should  be responsible for that. But we may think  
differently if there have  been problems or delays with keeping  the policyholder informed 
about the claim and the insurer was either aware of that or should have been  aware.  In this 
case Mr A had complained to esure  that he could not get information  from the solicitors  
about his travel costs  claim. He felt that it was up to esure to do more about the solicitors  but
esure said they werent responsible for them and Mr A would have to take it up with them
direct. And though the investigator asked  esure  to show  us their file on their dealings  with
the solicitors, esure said they didnt have one. 
As the investigator  advised, complaints about a solicitor were  outside this services  scope. 
But I still thought  that esure should have investigated Mr As concerns about  the solicitors
Ref: DRN76564183progress with his claim.  They should  have contacted the solicitors, passed  on Mr As
concerns and asked  them  to contact  Mr A to inform  him about  the progress of his claim. And
because of their failure to do that so far, I provisionally decided  that esure should also pay 
Mr A compensation of £275 (less the £75 if they had already paid him that and he
had accepted it) for his distress  and inconvenience.  That was to reflect  esures lack of
information to Mr A about what the solicitors were  doing and for not explaining clearly  to him
what they meant when  they said they would  try to recover his travel  costs.
I did not say that esure were responsible for Mr As travel costs,  or what  would happen if the
third-party insurer wouldnt  agree to pay them.  I appreciated that it was unfortunate that the 
accident happened through no fault of Mr As own, but that still didnt mean that esure  should  
have to pay all costs  arising from the incident. The travel costs were  uninsured  losses and I 
thought that esure had explained to him what that means. But I thought  that esure should 
explain to Mr A what the solicitors had done that far regarding recovery and what Mr As 
options were for recovery if the third-party  insurer  wouldnt  agree to pay the travel costs.  
Since my provisional decision, Mr A still believes that esure  promised to pay him his travel 
costs of £430. But esure remain adamant  that they did not agree that, only that they would 
fund solicitors to help him recover that. I think that the wording Ive quoted above does 
support esures  view on this. I havent seen anything else to persuade me otherwise. I dont 
think that esure ever agreed to pay Mr As travel costs themselves. And I agree that recovery 
of those costs was by no means guaranteed because Mr A would have had to show the 
third-party insurer why he incurred those costs in the way that he did.
But esure have  now admitted  that they didnt reply to an enquiry from the solicitors about  
pursuing Mr As uninsured  losses, and this meant that the matter failed to progress. Esure 
are now willing to pay Mr A compensation of £430  for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as result  of the situation. I think its fair of esure to do this now. But its still taken 
a long time for them  to do this, and I dont  see why they couldnt have investigated their 
dealings with their solicitors earlier and more thoroughly than they did at first. If they had the 
matter could have  been resolved earlier. And so I think  that they should also, in addition  to 
that £430, still pay the compensation I had provisionally decided.  This would make the 
compensation £430 plus £275, totalling  £705.  This is of course less the £75 esure say they 
paid Mr A in 2018.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and above, its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint.  I require  esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr A £705 (less the £75 they have already offered if they have paid him that and 
he accepted it) in compensation  for his distress  and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76564184Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If esure  consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off ,and give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7656418