K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained MBNA Limited wont remove a default from his credit card account and 
allow him to have a repayment plan.
background
Mr A has had a credit  card account  with MBNA for some  time. He had a card replaced in 
September 2017 after his home was broken  into and he lost his card. 
In December 2017 four cheques drawn on different  business accounts were  paid into Mr As 
credit card account (using the new account number). A payment for nearly £5,000 was also 
attempted but declined by MBNA. MBNA  decided  to close  Mr As account  as they felt thered 
been a serious  breach of the accounts terms and conditions. They wrote to him to tell him 
this. They  also added  a default to his credit record.
Mr A was unhappy with what had happened and wanted time to pay back  what  he owed on 
his credit card. He complained to the ombudsman service. MBNA agreed  to remove the 
default if Mr A paid the debt in full. This stood at £6,150 Mr A knew  he wasnt  able to do this 
in the short  time period MBNA had given him. 
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. The issue around attempted fraud and closure  were  
not at the heart of the complaint. He considered whether Mr A should have been given 
notice of MBNAs intention to default  him. In the end he felt that Mr A wasnt  being 
disadvantaged. He was never in a position to repay the debt in full and MBNAs  terms and 
conditions allowed them to ask for full repayment.
Mr A remained unhappy  with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are a few different  strands to this complaint and Ive considered them all. To help me 
reach a decision  Ive considered MBNAs  detailed  evidence and Mr As testimony.
Mr A isnt really complaining about  MBNA closing his account. But he wanted time to repay 
what he owed without  a default on his record. MBNA recorded a default on his credit record  
on 3 January 2018 after writing to Mr A on 29 December 2017 telling him they were  closing 
his account. Im sure Mr A received this letter as MBNAs customer notes show he called  
them in early January  to discuss this.
MBNA has argued that what happened  was a serious breach of Mr As terms and conditions. 
They were  therefore  able to close his account  and ask him to repay in full. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions. Its certainly true these allow them to close  his account and ask for full 
repayment. They felt they had enough  evidence to suggest Mr A knew about the fraudulent 
cheques. So I dont think MBNA  has done  anything wrong in closing the account and ask 
Mr A to pay in full.
Ref: DRN79724882But can they place  a default  on his record without giving  Mr A an opportunity  to repay  his 
debt in instalments?  I can see from the statements  MBNA  shared  with us that Mr A was 
most recently making  minimum repayments to his accounts. So I did wonder whether MBNA 
should have given Mr A the chance to set up a repayment plan.  
But Ive reviewed the guidelines for the reporting  of defaults drawn up by the credit  industry  
with the Information Commissioners Office.  These  state defaults are generally recorded  
when you are 3 months  in arrears, and normally  by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this and this includes  evidence of fraud . In this instance the lender, 
MBNA in this case, doesnt need to provide notice of their intention  to do so. This can be 
immediate on discovering what happened. This is what MBNA  did in this case. I dont  think it 
would be fair to say MBNA has done  anything  wrong. I wont  be asking them to remove  the 
default from Mr As record.
I know Mr A feels strongly about this but all the evidence points to him being unable to repay  
the debt. MBNA told Mr A if he could repay within a short timescale  in full, theyd remove  the 
default. Mr A has said he couldnt do this. This isnt surprising as his debt then stood at 
£6,150. Mr A will now need to come  to some arrangement with MBNA  to pay this debt but 
the default wont be removed.
I can see Mr A was concerned hed been defaulted  three times.  This cant  happen. An 
account can only be defaulted once. What Mr A was looking at was his credit record  which 
stated a default existed for January and the following  months, which is true as it stays  in 
place after its been applied to a credit  record. The record also shows  the default was 
applied from 3 January  2018.  Each  month a default will show until six years has passed and 
the default expires.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against MBNA 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7972488