K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Mortgages Direct Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2007. Mr A paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr A, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr A and Mortgages Direct did a fact find together,  where they went through  his 
circumstances and discussed what sort of protection he might want. Its recorded that Mr A 
wouldnt have been able to pay his mortgage  and bills if he was out of work, and so he 
wanted the mortgage protected.  Mortgages Direct recommended  PPI  and this was only a 
recommendation, not a requirement.  Mr A turned down other products and features, so it 
looks like he knew  he didnt have to have them.  The key facts document reiterated that Mr A 
didnt have to buy any insurance from Mortgages  Direct or the lender if he didnt want to. 
I can see he set up a direct debit specifically to pay for PPI, separately  to paying for the 
mortgage itself  the PPI wasnt an automatic part of the mortgage. The insurer  then sent 
Mr A a letter to welcome him to the policy and give him his documents,  and I can see Mr A 
later claimed on the PPI, so he knew he had it. Overall, I think its most likely  that Mortgages  
Direct made Mr A aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time.
Mortgages Direct recommended the PPI to Mr A, so they had to check it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr A doesnt  seem  to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. He said he had only limited sick pay through work, and no savings, which 
potentially left him at serious risk if he was off work  sick or lost his job. Mr A did have other 
insurances, but they covered different things  to the PPI and didnt overlap, so they werent 
relevant here. Its worth bearing  in mind that this mortgage was Mr As sole responsibility, 
and if he fell behind  on the payments he couldve lost his home. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve really been useful for him in protecting  his home  as it was when he claimed on it.
Ref: DRN74444012Mr A said the PPI wasnt suitable for him because it ended when he turned 65. According to 
the documents from the time, thats the age Mr A was planning  to retire. And once he retired 
from work,  he wouldnt have much use for an insurance that only covered people in work. 
Thats why its normal for PPI policies to end when the policyholder  reaches 65. I dont think  
it was onerous or unusual  for the PPI to end at normal retirement  age. The PPI covered Mr A 
for over 11 years, which was a reasonably long time, and it was certainly  better than having 
no protection during that time. So I still think the policy was suitable for Mr A.
Its possible that the information Mortgages Direct gave Mr A about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr A chose  to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr A wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was not bad value given how much  it would  pay out in a claim, and it covered 
Mr A for a reasonably long period. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis,  so Mr A 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I should mention that according to Mortgages  Direct, Mr A received around £5,500 
from his PPI from when he successfully claimed  on it. But over the course of the policy,  he 
would have only paid around £3,000 in total for PPI. So it looks  like Mr A made  more  money 
from the PPI than he spent on it. That would mean that even if I had found  that the policy 
was mis-sold, Mortgages Direct would not have owed him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7444401