K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Old Mutual Wealth Limited (OMW) in relation to a whole  of 
life (WOL) policy that they administer. 
As Mr B has done all the correspondence in relation to this complaint, Ill mostly only refer to 
him.
background
In 1984 Mr and Mrs B took out a joint WOL policy with a company that OMW have since 
acquired responsibility for. The policy was sold by a different  business  that Ill refer to as B.
In 2016 Mr B complained to OMW. He thought the policy  had been mis-sold  and that it 
wasnt suitable for his and Mrs Bs circumstances. He also complained  that he wasnt made 
aware that the policy was reviewable  and that the premiums may significantly increase. 
OMW responded  to the complaint and on 31 May 2017 they issued their final response to 
this complaint. In summary, OMW explained  how the policy  worked with regard to the 
reviews and they said they werent responsible for the sale of the policy  B was. The letter 
included a warning  that Mr B had six months from the date of the letter to refer the matter  to 
our service  if he remained dissatisfied.  
In April 2019 Mr B made a further  complaint to OMW.  He again complained about not being 
made aware  of the reviewable nature of the policy and that the adviser at the time had told 
him the premiums would only increase  in line with inflation. He also re-iterated that the policy  
wasnt suitable. 
OMW again responded, they referred  Mr B back to their final response from May 2017  on 
those points. But they did address a further point about the policy  including  an Automatic 
Increase Option (AIO). In relation to this they explained that the policy had been run in line 
with its terms  and conditions and they didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr B first contacted our service about this matter in May 2019.  One of our investigators 
thought that some of the complaint had been brought  to us too late. And for what  she could  
consider, she didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mr B explained that the delay in referring  the 
matter was due to some serious ill health  hed experienced which he felt amounted  to 
exceptional circumstances.  Our investigator sympathised with Mr B but wasnt persuaded to 
change the outcome shed previously explained.
Ive already issued  a jurisdiction decision explaining why Im only able to consider  Mr Bs 
complaint about  the AIO being applied to the policy and that his other  complaint issues  had 
been made too late.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
OMW have provided a copy  of the original  application form from 1984.  I can see that this is 
signed by both Mr and Mrs B and the yes box to indicate acceptance of the AIO is ticked on 
the form. The application form also gives the following explanation of the AIO: 
Ref: DRN79452632Under this option  the sum assured and contribution level will be automatically  increased 
each year at the anniversary, without medical evidence.  The amount of the increase in 
contribution level will be the greater of 10% and inflation, subject to a minimum increase, 
currently £20 pa / £2pm.  Where contributions are paid annually by cheque an additional 
amount will be requested from the Planholder,  in all other cases  the increased amount will 
automatically be collectedunder the direct debit mandate.
OMW also explained to Mr B that the AIO can be removed, but if this is done, it cant be 
added again. 
Based on all the above, I cant say OMW  acted unfairly when administering the plan in line 
with the term relating  to the AIO. I appreciate Mr B has suggested several proposals for what  
he feels would represent a fair resolution to this complaint. These  include  OMW  reducing his 
premium but maintaining  the cover available  or removing Mrs B from the cover to reduce  the 
premium. Ive considered  these but, as they arent required  to offer these options under the 
terms, I dont think  I can fairly ask OMW to do this. I can sympathise with Mr Bs position as, 
due to the option selected, he now has a significant  amount of cover which attracts a large 
premium. 
But if Mr B had concerns  as to the level of cover he had, or the premiums  he was being 
charged he could  have raised this with OMW or sought alternative cover  elsewhere. OMW 
werent obliged  to prompt him to do so. Overall, Im satisfied that OMW have administered 
the policy in line with its terms and that Mr and Mrs B selected  the AIO at the start. I dont 
consider this to be unfair in the circumstances. So, Im not telling OMW they need  to do 
anything further  to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7945263