K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1995.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Js credit card account when she applied, by post, to upgrade  her credit card. The PPI 
covered Mrs J if she couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Barclaycard hadnt  done enough  to bring  the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Js 
attention. And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Barclaycard didnt agree saying, in summary,  that:
The postal application was completed  without any advice from a Barclays member of 
staff, so it was for Mrs J to assess if the product was suitable for her.
The terms  and conditions of the policy wouldve been sent to her after shed applied  and 
she couldve  cancelled the policy  during  the first 30 days without incurring any charge.
When she complained, Mrs J told Barclaycard shed been  diagnosed with a condition 
around seven  years  before the sale took place but that the condition was very well 
controlled.  It seems that the condition  didnt impact on her daily activities  and wouldnt 
have caused her to take time off work.  So it was unlikely this condition  wouldve affected 
her decision to take the policy.
Mrs J;s given inaccurate  and conflicting  information. She said shed been diagnosed 
with another condition before she applied for the PPI. But later said itd been  diagnosed 
in 2005. And she said she wasnt aware  that she had the policy. But shed made a 
successful claim in April 2000, so she did know she had it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint  and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the policy to Mrs J, so it didnt have  to make sure it was 
suitable for her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so that she could  make  an informed choice about  the insurance  she was buying.  
The fact that the terms and conditions may have  been provided after Mrs J applied,  and 
before the end of the cancellation period, isnt relevant to my decision  I need to decide  
whether Mrs J was given enough information before she applied.
Ref: DRN74630662The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Mrs J 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for any sickness, 
disease, condition  or injury which you knew  about or which you asked about or received 
advice, treatment or counselling for from any Doctor, during the 12 months immediately 
before the Starting  Date.
Mrs J told us shed been diagnosed with a condition around seven years before  she was 
sold the policy. This condition was long term and required regular  medication.  This condition 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Mrs J told us her condition was, and continues  to 
be, controlled with medication and that she hasnt had to have time of work because  of it. 
But the nature of the condition suggests to me that, when she took out the policy,  she was 
likely to have anticipated that any time off work would likely be due to this condition,  or 
something connected to it. I think this condition wouldve affected her decision to take the 
policy.
So I find that, had the exclusion terms been  brought to her attention,  its more  likely than not 
that Mrs J wouldnt have  taken the policy.
Ive taken into consideration that Mrs J gave us some inaccurate and conflicting information. 
I dont find this surprising,  given this all took place  so long ago. When she first complained,  
she thought the PPI had probably  been  taken out in 1980  when she first applied  for a 
credit card. So she gave  information about  her circumstances  then.  When  she was asked to 
provide information  about her circumstances in 1995, she did correctly disclose that she had 
a pre-existing medical condition. Clearly over time her recollections have become less clear  
and this is why she got confused about a second  condition and the date that it was 
diagnosed. 
She also told us that she wasnt aware  PPI had been applied  to her account. But she was 
able to make  a successful  claim in 2000,  so she was certainly  aware she had it then.  But 
I think its likely that since then shes forgotten  she had the PPI. 
I dont think this conflicting testimony  casts doubt  on what Mrs J has told us about  her pre-
existing medical condition  shes been consistent  in what shes told us about that. So it 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion.
putting things right
Barclaycard should  put Mrs J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclaycard should find out how much Mrs J would  have  owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclaycard should  then refund the difference between what  Mrs J owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN74630663B.Barclaycard should add simple  interest on the difference  between what  Mrs J would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclaycard works out what Mrs J would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs J paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Barclaycard should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs J paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs J wouldve owed Barclaycard something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclaycard should tell Mrs J what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7463066