K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  has treated her unfairly  when handling 
a claim under her buildings insurance  policy.
background
Within this claim Allianz has instructed a number of contractors  and agents  to act on its 
behalf. To keep things  simple, Ill refer to all of them collectively as Allianz unless specified.
This background isnt intended  to set out every  event in detail. Instead  Ive given a 
summarised timeline of events. To my knowledge  the claim in question is still ongoing. So 
for the avoidance  of doubt I have  only considered  what happened between  the claim being  
made and March 2019.
In August  2018  Ms C discovered  a leak affecting a number of rooms  in her home.  She 
contacted her home emergency provider (Company  A) which  sent an engineer  to establish  
the cause and stop the leak. Ms C also contacted Allianz to make a claim under her 
buildings policy. It appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property on 14 August 2018.
Ms C tried to catch the leaking water using  buckets to reduce  the damage  to her home.
Unfortunately this water infected her, she contracted sepsis  and was rushed to hospital  
where she spent several days. Allianz  reviewed  both the loss adjusters and Company As 
reports. And around  a week later a restoration  company was appointed by Company  A to 
sanitise the property.
Allianz said during  these  works Company As contractor  (Company  B) caused  damage to a 
separate section  of pipe leading to an additional  leak, leading  to sewage waste being 
present in the home. Ms C again became seriously ill  contracting sepsis  a second  time.
Allianz said it first became aware of Ms Cs ill health  around a week later.
On 7 September 2018 Allianz instructed Company  C to attend Ms Cs property and begin 
repairs. Ms C explained  that she wanted  all of her furniture to be removed before any works 
were carried  out. Allianz and its contractors initially said it didnt feel this was a risk, and that 
it could mitigate these concerns. Ms C disagreed and Allianz reconsidered  the same day, 
saying it would arrange for the furniture to be put in storage.
Shortly after Allianz moved Ms C into a two bedroom flat. Following this there were a number 
of back and forth conversations between Allianz and its contractors. On 29 October  2018  
Allianz confirmed Ms C had a valid claim that it would cover under her insurance policy.
Soon after Allianz  said it was due to complete excavation works and would arrange further 
strip out works. It said once the strip out works  were  completed it would need to assess what 
drying regime and sanitising works  would be required. However on 22 November 2018 
Allianz said there had been delays as the assigned contractor was unavailable. So it said it 
had instructed a different contractor on an urgent basis.
In early January  2019 Allianzs agents said they were unable to carry out the required strip 
out works  as Ms C was away. Further back and forth conversations between  Allianz and its 
contractors took place around  this time.
Ref: DRN79731942In March 2019 Allianz issued its final response  to Ms C. It said upon its first visit it was given 
nothing to suggest of Ms Cs ill health.  And it said the first case  of sepsis was caused by the 
initial leak. And the second was as a result  of Company Bs actions which  led to the further 
leak. Allianz said as soon as it became aware of Ms Cs health  concerns it put her into 
nearby alternative  accommodation. It also said delays were due to contractor  availability.
Ms C was unhappy with Allianzs actions so she brought  her complaint to our service.  She 
said Allianz had caused delays, not kept her updated, and its actions had led her to catch  
sepsis twice. She also said the accommodation wasnt like-for-like, and shed been put 
through further stress  as Allianz had extended the property let with little forward notice. Ms C 
said the impact to her wellbeing  has been  significant.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and upheld  the complaint. She said 
Allianz shouldve  provided alternative  accommodation earlier than it did, but didnt think there 
was enough to say it was responsible for Ms C catching sepsis for a second time  
particularly as it hadnt visited her home until after shed caught it. The investigator said the 
evidence suggested  Ms C had accepted the choice  of accommodation.  And she said 
Allianzs own emails highlighted delays and failings.  So she said Allianz should award Ms C 
£350 for causing delays and not providing  accommodation earlier than it did.
Ms C disagreed and said shed contracted sepsis for the second time on 20 August 2018, 
after Allianzs loss adjuster  had visited her home. And Ms C said shed told Allianz  in a 
phone call soon after the initial leak of her health  and related concerns.
Our investigator said Ms C had provided no medical evidence  to support what shed said, 
and that a sewage leak wouldnt mean a property would automatically be unsafe  to live in. 
So she didnt believe it was fair to hold Allianz  responsible. The investigator said shed 
checked and no phone  recordings were available but the call notes  from the time didnt 
suggest Ms C had highlighted her ill health  to Allianz.
Ms C disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
On 14 February 2020 I issued my provisional thoughts  on the complaint explaining why I 
intended to uphold the complaint. Ive included my comments below:
alternative accommodation and related  impact
Ms Cs policy  says Allianz would pay up to £100,000  for any one claim where the 
policyholders home  couldnt be lived in as a result  of loss or damage insured by the relevant  
sections of the policy.
Allianz has accepted  the claim and agreed  that Ms Cs home cannot be lived in during the 
period of works. So I havent got to make a finding  on whether it should be provided. Instead 
I need to consider whether Allianz  shouldve made its decision to provide alternative 
accommodation any earlier than it did, and if so, what was the impact of this.
When dealing with claim of this nature, its common that insurers will first seek  to establish  
whether a valid claim has been  made  before providing the alternative  accommodation   so it 
doesnt provide  cover  when it doesnt need to. In this case Allianzs  lost adjuster visited  
Ms Cs property soon after the damage occurred. And from what Ive seen,  Allianz received 
and reviewed this report  at the time of her second instance of sepsis diagnosis.
Ref: DRN79731943So it seems  unlikely that Allianz couldve  reasonably offered the alternative accommodation 
earlier than it did, and that Ms C had already  become  ill before it had an opportunity  to 
arrange this.
Ms C has also complained about  the type of the accommodation she was given. The policy 
says she is entitled  to alternative  accommodation  of a similar size and standard to the home.
I understand Ms C lives in a large  five bedroom property and was given a two bedroom flat 
nearby to her home. Allianz has indicated Ms C agreed to take this property.  Ms C has said 
Allianz provided it her reluctantly as its agents were concerned about costs.
From what  Ive seen, its possible Allianz  shouldve provided Ms C with a bigger property that 
was of a similar size and standard  to her own home.
delays
Under ICOBS 8.1 Allianz must handle claims promptly  and fairly.  In this case Allianz has 
acknowledged there have been delays within works  being started and completed,  and has 
attributed this largely to delays or issues with availability from its own contractors.
But Allianz is ultimately responsible for the handling  of this claim, and from reading its own 
internal emails it seems  it has agreed  works shouldve been completed  earlier  than they 
were. Ive highlighted two examples of this. In November 2018 one of Allianz  agents  
questioned why no works had been  completed  for three  months despite the claim being 
open. And in December  2018 its loss adjuster said:
we have  noted  that the progress  is slow due to a few technical complications we 
continue to overcome  with the appointed suppliers who clearly  failed in progressing 
the works  at the risk address.
This suggests to me that Allianz was aware  of the problems  within  its handling of the claim.
And while some of these  problems may have arisen  through fault of its own contractors,  this 
doesnt change  the impact  this delay has had on Ms C.
For these reasons Im satisfied Allianz  hasnt handled this claim as promptly  as it shouldve.
And taking  into account what little works  appear  to have been completed over the life of the 
claim that Ive considered,  it seems to me Ms C has spent a considerable and avoidable 
length of time away from her home,  in a flat much smaller than her own property.
So even if Ms C had agreed to take on this flat previously  as Allianz has said,  it doesnt 
seem likely to me that she would  or could have  foreseen the length  of time the works would 
take. As a result Im intending to direct Allianz  to pay Ms C £1,000 as compensation overall 
for the way its handled this claim.
I gave both parties until 6 March 2020 to respond. This date has now passed. Allianz hasnt 
provided anything  further, but Ms C responded to say she disagreed. Ive summarised her 
comments below:
Allianz should have  recognised her vulnerability  when she called on 13 August 2018 
and moved her out of her home  given its condition;
Allianz shouldve removed her contents earlier than it did;
Ref: DRN79731944Allianzs handling throughout the claim was very poor; and
Ms C still holds Allianz responsible for her catching sepsis for a second  time.
Ms C has also complained of a number of issues that have occurred  since she returned to 
the property. Shes said Allianzs actions have resulted  in significant damage to her property, 
and that her heating  doesnt work,  her flooring isnt level, alongside other issues.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding  this complaint.
Ms C has reiterated that Allianz should  have  moved her out of her home  earlier than it did 
and its actions caused her to catch  sepsis for a second time. Ive outlined  my thoughts  on 
this within  my provisional decision, and while Ive considered her comments  carefully, these 
havent changed my mind  for the reasons Ive already given.
Ive also considered Ms Cs complaint that Allianz initially objected  to removing her furniture 
from the home. However Allianz agreed to put her contents into storage on the same day 
she raised these concerns, so this doesnt change my mind.
I recognise that Allianz hasnt handled  this claim as it should have, and the impact has been 
unnecessary stress and frustration for Ms C. But taking this into account Im also satisfied 
the sum of £1,000 is fair and reasonable compensation in all of the circumstances.  And Im 
not asking Allianz  to do anything further  as a result.
In relation to Ms Cs more recent concerns,  as I have outlined my decision considers 
Allianzs handling of the claim up until March 2019.  So Im unable to consider these points. 
Ms C will first need to allow Allianz  an opportunity to investigate and resolve these concerns, 
if she hasnt already, before bringing these  to our service to consider.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  And I consider it is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint that Allianz  Insurance  Plc pay Ms C £1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7973194