K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lend Fair Ltd was irresponsible in granting  her a loan.
background
Mrs H took out a guarantor loan in August 2016  for £4,000 repayable over 39 months  at 
£184.39 a month.  In the summer of 2018 Mrs H complained to Lend  Fair. It rejected her 
complaint and so the matter was brought to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. Mrs H said that the business  didnt  carry out suitable checks and didnt  ask for bank 
statements or carry out a detailed  check of her outgoings. She said she had a gambling 
problem which would  have shown up on her bank statements.
The investigator noted that the business had undertaken a detailed income and expenditure 
assessment by phone. It also asked for a payslip which  allowed it to verify Mrs Hs income  
and identity by checking her national insurance  number and bank account details. She 
listened to the call in which the income and expenditure was covered and noted Mrs H had 
mentioned two County  Court Judgements.  This resulted in the type of loan being altered. 
She also said the payslip supplied by Mrs H showed she had a larger  income than she had 
declared. She concluded that Lend  Fair had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks and had no reason to suspect that Mrs H had a gambling problem.
Mrs H didnt agree and said that Lend Fair had made other  errors. These included  the fact 
that she gave  two different reasons why she was borrowing the money.  She didnt think her 
expenditure had been  fully explored  and the business had accepted  her husband paid half 
the bills, and her credit  file hadnt been  checked.  She also said she hadnt been told of the 
revised interest and repayment regime. Overall she felt Lend  Fair had made a number  of 
errors.
The investigator addressed the points Mrs H had made and said that there wasnt  a specific 
list of mandatory  checks  which  the business  had to carry out. The question  was whether it 
had carried out checks which  were proportionate.  She thought it had. Mrs H didnt agree. 
The business agreed and pointed out that a credit check had been carried  out on the 
guarantor albeit this had no bearing  on the investigators decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to the calls between Mrs H and the business and it is clear  she was happy  to 
borrow the money and that the repayments  were affordable. She didnt mention she had a 
gambling problem.  I would add that I have considered all the arguments put forward by Mrs 
H, but my decision concentrates on those I consider central to her complaint.
As the investigator  has pointed out the business doesnt have to carry out specific  checks.  
To some extent it relied on what Mrs H said,  but it did check the key elements of her 
application. Her income was verified by the payslip and it relied  on Mrs Hs verbal  
declaration of her outgoings. It accepted that half of the household outgoings were covered 
Ref: DRN75124192by Mrs Hs husband  that is not unreasonable. I appreciate Mrs H feels she wasnt asked 
about some  expenditure, but having  listened to the call I consider the list of questions  was 
fairly extensive.
It is unfortunate that when she is told didnt qualify for the loan she was seeking due to her 
CCJs that the call handler didnt pick up she gave a different  reason  for the loan. However, I 
dont think that means  the business made a significant error in not picking her up on this. It is 
clear the call handler was seeking to help Mr H who was concerned  about  the delay in the 
loan arriving.
In that call Mrs H also asked about  increasing the loan and the call handler shows a degree  
of caution and asks Mrs H if she would be comfortable with the increased costs even though 
her recorded  disposable  income was sufficient. 
My view is that Lend Fair is in the business  of providing loans to people  with a poor credit 
history and it says it does so to help them restore their creditworthiness.  Mrs H met its 
criteria and I think the checks it carried out were proportionate. It is unfortunate  that it didnt 
discover her gambling problem, but I do not believe I can uphold the complaint on that alone. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision before 
22 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7512419