K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that MBNA  Limited  (MBNA) didnt  agree to a repayment plan for her credit 
card arrears  when she experienced financial difficulties. She says MBNA didnt treat her 
sympathetically. 
background
Miss S holds a credit card with MBNA. In August 2017 she approached MBNA to ask if it 
could consider a repayment plan as she was suffering financial difficulties. She wanted  to 
arrange the plan through  secure messaging  but was told that wasnt  possible. MBNA  said it 
needed a completed income and expenditure form before it could consider any repayment 
alternatives. No agreement was reached and Miss S later paid off her arrears and continued 
to maintain payments. 
In February 2018  Miss S contacted MBNA to see if she could  use her card  as by this time 
her credit facility had been withdrawn  but she was told she couldnt have further credit. The 
next month Miss S contacted MBNA again  and explained that she had some  financial 
difficulties and would like to agree  a repayment plan. She was asked to complete an income  
and expenditure  statement but MBNA  said it believed she could afford her contractual  
minimum repayments and couldnt  agree to a repayment plan. During this time Miss S 
continued to receive  arrears notices for the account.
Miss S complained that MBNA wouldnt agree to a repayment plan and said she hadnt  been 
treated sympathetically.  MBNA disagreed and said it had acted correctly  because Miss S 
hadnt agreed reduced payment terms with her other creditors  and owed  MBNA  a lot more  
than some of them. Therefore it said it couldnt agree a repayment  plan with her. As Miss S 
didnt agree the complaint  was referred to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that MBNA  had given  Miss S the chance  to sort out the arrears without putting any adverse 
markers on her credit file and thought  it had acted reasonably. He didnt think it was fair to 
ask MBNA to do anything  more.
Miss S disagreed, she said MBNA  hadnt been  clear  in its letters what she should do and it 
hadnt been supportive or acted positively  towards  her. Therefore the complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss S feels strongly that MBNA didnt help her when she was in financial 
difficulties. And I understand it must have been a difficult position for her if she thought she 
didnt get the support she needed.  But I dont  think MBNA has done  anything wrong here  
which I know will disappoint Miss S  so Ill explain why.  
I think Miss S took appropriate action in 2017  and 2018 when she contact MBNA as soon  as 
she was struggling  to make her card payments. I think that would have given  MBNA  a better 
chance to help Miss S repay any arrears without making her financial situation worse.  And I 
Ref: DRN72881202would have expected MBNA to have acted  positively and sympathetically to Miss Ss 
situation by initially  asking Miss S about  her income  and outgoings. And I can see it did that 
both in 2017 and 2018.
In 2017 Miss S was unable to use her phone which meant it became difficult  for her to 
discuss her income and expenditure. As a result no repayment plan was arranged  but I dont 
think MBNA acted unfairly because  it did try to deal with Miss Ss situation positively. Ive 
seen from its messages how MBNA might have been prepared  to stop interest  charges and 
agree reduced payments if an income  and expenditure form could be completed.  But in any 
event Miss S was able to repay any arrears and continue to make her contractual payments.
Ive also seen from messages between MBNA and Miss S in 2018 that when Miss S said 
she had financial difficulties MBNA again reiterated the need to complete  such  a form. It also 
explained that charges would continue until any plan was agreed and highlighted other 
organisations that might be able to help Miss S. So again  I think it was looking to act 
positively towards Miss S.
But MBNA says it couldnt agree a repayment plan based on the information  it was ultimately 
given because Miss S had a significant disposable  income and it expected her to split that 
between all her creditors on a pro rata basis. Miss S says that when she asked MBNA to 
agree a repayment plan shed already agreed plans  with the other creditors.  So, Ive 
considered the information that MBNA gathered from her income and expenditure form. And 
Ive seen how over 70% of Miss S disposable income was directed towards paying three 
loans of which the total owed was around half of what Miss S owed MBNA. So Miss S debt 
owed to MBNA was more  than her other creditors. I dont think MBNA was asking  Miss S to 
decrease her disposable income for day to day living expenses  but rather to recalculate the 
distribution of her income after priority  debt has been paid in a way which is fair to all 
creditors so that repayments are pro rata to the amount owed to each  creditor. I consider this 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I note that MBNA didnt  apply any further late payment  fees to the account during  this time 
and I can see that it also directed  Miss S to other  organisations that might have been able to 
renegotiate payments to her other  creditors on her behalf. So I think MBNA did act 
sympathetically and positively during this time even though it didnt agree the short  term 
repayment plan Miss S wanted. 
  
Ive also considered what impact MBNAs  actions might have had on Miss S. Theres  no 
evidence to show that Miss S defaulted on her other  loans in order to repay MBNA, and Im 
pleased to hear that Miss S was able to borrow money from her family  to pay off the arrears 
on the MBNA card. 
I note Miss S has said MBNA caused  her inconvenience by asking her to contact it by 
telephone when shed made it aware  that her mobile phone  wasnt  working. Initially  MBNA 
said it had tried to contact Miss S about her arrears in 2017  but was unable to get hold of 
her. So its clear it wasnt aware  of her phone problems at that time.  And I can see that she 
was able to provide completed income  and expenditure  forms by post. So I dont think 
Miss S has been impacted by these issues to the extent  that a compensatory payment 
should be awarded. 
Ultimately I think  MBNA did act positively and sympathetically in trying  to help Miss S when 
she had financial difficulties. Setting up a repayment  plan isnt the only alternative available  
Ref: DRN72881203in such a situation and I think when MBNA made the decision not to agree a plan it did offer 
other alternatives. I dont think MBNA acted unfairly  and I dont think it needs to do anything 
further. 
Miss S credit file will have been  affected by her missing some of her contractual payments  
although the account wasnt  defaulted. But MBNA  has a duty to accurately reflect  her credit 
activity which I think it did and I dont  think it should  have to make any amendments to her 
credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint against  MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288120