K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold him and his late wife a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1983.
background
The policy was in Mr Ds name only.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ds representative  disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked 
that an ombudsman  review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Mr D has stated that PPI was sold as part of the mortgage package, and therefore it was not 
made clear that it was an optional product. I cannot  be certain about what  exactly was 
discussed at the time that the policy was taken out. In the circumstances I must determine 
what I consider is most likely to have  occurred, based on the available  evidence.
In the mortgage  application form that was completed  in 1983, there was a section  entitled  
Additional insurance  cover. In answer  to the questions whether Mr D wanted  accident, 
sickness and redundancy cover, the form recorded that he did. There was an option to 
respond no. Mr D also signed a separate PPI application form, confirming the type of cover 
that he required.
I have thought carefully about Mr Ds description  of the way in which PPI was sold to him. I 
am mindful  that because the sale took place many years  ago, it might  be difficult for Mr D to 
remember in detail  what was discussed. Overall, based on the balance of evidence 
provided, my view is that it is more likely than not that Mr D was given a choice about 
whether or not to take out PPI, and chose to do so.
Santander accepts  that it advised  Mr D to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mr D could make  a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at the circumstances of both Mr and Mrs D when  the policy was sold, with 
particular reference  to Mr D as the policyholder, my view is that the recommendation to take 
out the policy was suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr D has confirmed that he was entitled to benefits from his employer if he was not 
working. However, the PPI policy would have made  a payment in the event Mr D had 
been unable  to work due to disability or unemployment, in addition to any other benefits 
that he was entitled  to. Taking into account  the importance of maintaining mortgage 
repayments, overall my view is that the PPI did provide  a useful benefit to Mr D.
Ref: DRN72537582Mr D was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main 
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
The policy looks to have been affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs D as much 
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable for Mr D, my view is that better  information would not have put them off taking 
out the PPI. In conclusion, I do not consider that this policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ds commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr D back  any of the commission paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7253758