K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Intelligent Finance (which Ill refer to as 
IF), wont  refund money spent and taken out of his account  using  his debit card after it was 
stolen. He says he didnt allow anybody else to know his PIN, which  was needed to carry out 
the transactions involved.
background
Mr C had his IF debit card (and other  items, including a card for an account  with Bank 2 and 
his driving licence)  stolen  in October 2017 while he was at the gym. Shortly  afterwards his 
card was used to withdraw  money  from an ATM  and then to carry out a foreign currency 
transaction.
As soon  as practicable  after Mr C discovered the theft he contacted IF. He then arranged for 
various locks and keys to be changed and ordered a new driving licence. When  Mr C asked 
IF to refund the money thatd been taken  out of his account it said it wasnt prepared  to do 
so. It said the transactions had needed  Mr Cs PIN to be carried  out. And that must also 
have been available to the thief.  So IF wasnt satisfied Mr C had taken proper  care of his 
personal security details.
Its unclear whether his gym locker was secure at the time Mr Cs debit card was stolen. But 
he was clear he hadnt kept a record of his PIN with his debit card  or allowed anybody  else 
to use his card. So he contacted us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into things  for Mr C. But he concluded  IF didnt need to 
refund the money. The adjudicator couldnt see a likely scenario where the thief had been 
able to get Mr Cs PIN unless there  was a record of it with his debit card.
The adjudicator noted Mr Cs suggestion that this might have happened when he used an 
ATM not far from the gym.  But the last time hed done this was a month  before his debit card 
was stolen. So it didnt  seem likely somebody  would have seen Mr Cs PIN and remembered 
it on the off chance  theyd  be able to get hold of his card so much later.
Mr C said it was possible hed tried to use his PIN as the combination to (unsuccessfully) 
lock his things  away at the gym. He said he had got the two numbers  mixed  up at times. But 
our adjudicator didnt  think  this was likely   as it needed somebody to be in the gym at the 
time, carry  out the theft and take a chance  on that incorrect  combination being the PIN for 
Mr Cs debit card.
As Mr C didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, his complaint  has been passed to an 
ombudsman to review  and issue a final decision on.
Since then,  Mr C has highlighted  the requirements  outlined in the Payment Service  
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs),  which he says require a bank to demonstrate  a customer 
hasnt taken reasonable steps to protect  their PIN or acted fraudulently or with gross  
negligence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75803422As we hadnt  responded directly to the point that Mr C has made about the PSRs I issued a 
provisional decision, setting out my thinking on this, and his complaint more  generally, in 
December 2019.
my provisional findings and decision
I could see Mr C felt very strongly  about  whats happened here. That was clear from what 
hed said to us (and to IF). And thats  not surprising. Just over £1,000  was taken from his 
account. Hed also had considerable upset and extra costs  arising from the theft  by having 
to pay for new locks and keys and to get a replacement driving licence. So Mr C was bound  
to be concerned.
But I explained to Mr C that I agreed  with the adjudicator. I didnt think  IF had to refund the 
money that was taken  from his account.  Much  of the reasoning  the adjudicator used in 
coming to his conclusion did reflect the requirements of the PSRs. But it didnt specifically 
refer back to them.
I pointed out that it was actually the PSRs  from 2009  that apply to Mr Cs case, not the 2017  
ones. Those  apply to transactions  from 13 January 2018. But the two sets of regulations are, 
essentially, the same as far as Mr Cs complaint is concerned.
In coming to my decision I have  to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and 
regulations. Here, the PSRs are the relevant regulations (made  under the law).
Nobody knew exactly what happened here.  So I had to base  my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I thought most  likely  to have taken place.
I looked at IFs records and was satisfied Mr Cs genuine  debit  card was used to carry out 
the ATM withdrawal and the foreign currency transaction. Those records  showed  Mr Cs PIN 
was entered for all of the transactions   and correctly at the first attempt. So, whoever 
carried them  out knew the PIN.
I was as satisfied as I could be Mr C didnt carry out the transactions hed disputed.  That 
seemed self-evident  based on the costs  he incurred in paying for replacement  locks and 
keys and having to get a replacement driving licence. And Id no reason to think  Mr C didnt 
genuinely think hed locked his possessions away at the gym.
On the basis that Mr C didnt carry out the transactions, the PSRs require me to come  to a 
view that he didnt take reasonable care of his PIN (or other personal security  details).  Mr C 
said his PIN isnt one that obviously links to his personal details. I took this to mean  
something connected with Mr Cs date of birth or other  numbers he might be associated 
with. Thats  the right and reasonable thing for him to have done.
So I had to go on and look at how somebody  else might be able to get his PIN. Mr C said he 
doesnt use his IF debit  card very much. That was supported  by IFs records. There  were 
three possibilities Mr C had suggested where somebody may have seen him:
entering his PIN when he was using his IF card at an ATM close to the gym; or
entering his PIN when making a purchase  using his Bank  2 card  as Mr C used the 
same PIN for both cards; or
Ref: DRN75803423incorrectly using  his PIN as the combination for locking his possessions away  at the gym.
Like the adjudicator,  I didnt think  any of these were likely;  the first two because  of the time 
between when Mr C last used his IF and Bank  2 cards. In both cases, these were several 
weeks before his IF card was stolen. I didnt  think an unknown  third party would  happen to 
see Mr C use either  card and remember the PIN on the off chance they might be able to 
access his locker at the gym several weeks later.
And I also thought  it was unlikely somebody  would  be in the gym, happen to notice the 
combination Mr C had used to unsuccessfully secure  his locker, steal the card and take a 
chance this was the same as his PIN. Thats because IFs records  show  the PIN was entered 
correctly at the first attempt when the cash withdrawal was made  at an ATM.
What I thought was more  likely is that Mr C had some record  of his PIN with his card (and 
other possessions that were taken). And that wouldnt  be particularly surprising. After all, he 
didnt use his IF (or Bank 2) card very often. But it did mean I couldnt say he took 
reasonable care to protect  his PIN. So I thought this case passed the requirements of the 
PSRs and it was fair IF didnt have to refund  the money Mr C had lost.
I commented the person that is ultimately  responsible for that loss is whoever stole  Mr Cs 
card and used it to take the money  from his account.  Clearly,  thats  not fair. But, in the 
particular circumstances  of this complaint, it also wasnt fair that IF should  bear that loss.
So, my provisional decision was that I wasnt  proposing to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
I noted that Bank 2 decided to refund Mr C for a cash withdrawal  made using his Bank 2 
card after that was stolen  at the same time. That was a matter for Bank 2. Here,  I was only 
looking at whether IF should refund Mr C.
responses to my provisional  decision and my further findings
IF didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.  That isnt a huge surprise  given that I wasnt  
proposing to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary, he repeated his earlier 
comments about the 2017 PSRs  and how somebody could have obtained  his PIN (and 
card). He didnt  provide  any new evidence  as such.
I did think again about whether the possibilities Mr C described for somebody  to get hold of 
his PIN. But I still couldnt see how any of these  were likely   for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Mr C is right the PSRs do give a banks customer some protection.  Ive considered carefully  
the requirements of the PSRs and the wider guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority 
in reaching my conclusion.
Deciding whether  somebody has taken reasonable  care remains a matter of judgement,  
rather than being  prescriptive. The starting point  will always be whether the scenario 
presented is likely, based on the available  evidence. And, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, its hard for me to see the possibilities described as being likely. I still think  its 
more likely that Mr C had some record of his PIN with his card.
Ref: DRN75803424I realise Mr C will be disappointed with my decision.  He may wish to take the matter further 
through other means.  But my decision brings to an end what  we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with IF informally, can do for him. Im sorry were  not able to help Mr C more on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580342