K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wrongly 
recorded her finance agreement  as 50 months. She says this meant she couldnt  trade  in her 
car when  she wanted to. She also complains about  the poor service she received.
Background
In June 2016 Mrs L obtained  a car through a hire purchase agreement  with VWFS. In or 
around March 2019, Mrs L went to a dealership to discuss  obtaining  a new car. When  a 
vehicle check was carried out on her existing car, she saw that the agreement  had been 
recorded as 50 months,  when she understood it to be 48 months.
When she complained  to VWFS, it explained that the agreement  was in fact 49 months  the 
first payment  was due within  one month  of the date of the agreement, followed by 
47 monthly payments,  then a final, balloon, payment. But in November 2018,  Mrs L had 
asked for the payment date to be changed  from the end of the month to the beginning. This 
meant the final payment was actually due in month  50. But, as the contract  still required 
49 payments, VWFS  arranged  to change the information on the HPI record  to reflect  this. In 
its final response to her complaint, it recognised it should have provided her with better 
service when she complained and it offered  to pay her £150.
But Mrs L also wanted compensation  for the financial loss she said shed suffered. She said 
it will now cost her £1,745  more to obtain  the car she wanted in March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
VWFSs offer was fair and reasonable. He didnt think  the way the agreement  was recorded 
on the HPI should  have made  a difference to Mrs Ls decision  to obtain a new car.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that:
Although the payment date was changed, she was still contracted  to make the same 
number of payments; so the HPI record shouldnt have been  changed  to 50 months.
She was concerned  that the HPI record didnt reflect what she had signed up to. It was 
unreasonable to suggest she could still have gone ahead  and obtained a new car when 
she had concerns about  the existing hire purchase  contract. If VWFS hadnt given her 
wrong information she would have traded her car in in March 2019. Shes provided 
evidence to show that it will now cost her more to do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for much the same reasons.
When VWFS acted  on Mrs Ls request  to change the payment date to the beginning of each 
month, it meant  the last payment would be made in the 50th month.  It changed the HPI 
record to show the agreement was for 50 months.  But after Mrs L complained, and bearing 
in mind there  were  still only 49 payments to make under the terms of the agreement, it 
changed the record back to 49 months. 
Ref: DRN72783352It accepted it didnt provide a good enough level of service, particularly when Mrs L made a 
Subject Access  Request,  and, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to pay her £150.  I consider  
this to be fair and reasonable.
I dont find that VWFS  is obliged to compensate  Mrs L for the financial loss she says shes 
suffered. Although  Mrs L visited a dealership in March 2019 and discussed trading in her 
car, I cant  be certain that she would have gone ahead  with this. I can see that shed asked 
for voluntary termination figures in the past, but continued with the agreement and this may 
have been what  she would have chosen to do on this occasion. And, whilst I understand 
Mrs Ls concerns, I dont think the fact that the HPI showed 50 months instead of 49 months 
reasonably stopped her trading in her car and taking out a new agreement. 
My final decision
My decision  is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay Mrs L £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7278335