K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Santander UK Plc (then trading as Alliance and Leicester, but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms Ws mortgage  started in 2007  but she didn't take out PPI then.
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out 2 years later, in 
March 2009. The policy protected Ms Ws mortgage monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms W mainly said that she was led to believe that the insurance  was compulsory. She also 
told us that the redundancy  benefits  she was entitled to at work  meant  unemployment cover 
wasnt something she needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Ms W. But as this 
happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Ms W or Santander to have kept this. And a 
financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
Although Santander couldnt provide any documents from the sale, its records show that the 
PPI was taken out after the mortgage  was set up. So I think  that Ms W wouldve been  aware  
at the time that PPI wasn't something  she had to have with her mortgage and that it was up 
to her to make  the necessary arrangements  if she wanted to take it out.
Ms W wouldve had to fill in a separate application  form and set up new payment 
arrangements to take out the PPI. And it appears  Ms W mustve decided  she wanted the PPI 
because Santander  sent her a welcome  letter  setting  out details of the cover  shed taken  
out. This letter also included information  about her right to cancel the policy  if she didn't want 
it and provided contact details if she had any questions.
Ms W couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt something she wanted.  But, from what  Ive 
seen, it doesnt  look as if that happened.
Its completely understandable that Ms W mightve forgotten  some  of the details of this sale 
as it was so long ago. This means that what Ms W says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  her complaint about  how she was sold the PPI. I have to look at everything  
Ive been told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
On balance, I think it wouldve been  clear to Ms W that the PPI was optional and it was 
added to the account when she chose the cover  she wanted to have. 
Ref: DRN74143052Santander says it recommended the PPI. If a business makes  a recommendation about PPI, 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Ms W was eligible  for the policy.  
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim and Ms W couldve made repeated 
claims. So the policy wouldve provided  long term cover  for the mortgage.  Her mortgage was 
a major financial commitment and Ms Ws home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage 
payments werent  kept up to date. Ms W told us that she couldnt depend on being  paid any 
sick pay and she had no significant other  means to rely on if she wasnt able to work.  So, 
I can see why she mightve  felt it was useful  having  PPI to protect her income in the event 
she was unable to work.  
Ive taken into account what Ms W told us about her long service  and the redundancy pay 
she couldve  expected.  But no job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. And being 
entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Ms W if she was off work sick. PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed lost her job, 
giving her some additional financial security  in those circumstances.
So I think PPI was suitable for Ms W looking at what shes told me about her circumstances.
Its possible some of the information  Ms W was given about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Ms Ws case. So, I dont think having more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Ms W when she bought the policy. But the 
welcome letter set out what the monthly  premium  would  be - and it appears Ms W wouldve 
signed an instruction  form to her bank to cover  the monthly cost. So it seems  Ms W was 
happy at the time to pay for it and the policy appears to have been affordable. As she was 
paying for the PPI monthly, she could cancel it without further cost if her situation changed or 
she no longer wanted  it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Ms W still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been  given  clearer  
information as it gave useful protection in Ms Ws particular  situation. So I dont find that 
Ms W has lost out as a result of anything that Santander mightve done wrong. This means it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7414305