K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs K says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs K
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.   
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs K says she had no knowledge of the PPI at the time and she was under the 
impression she was only taking out a store card. Ive seen a copy  of the store  card 
application form Mrs K saw and signed, which included a section for PPI. In this section  
Mrs K has signed to agree to the cover. This signature is separate and additional to her 
signature to agree  to the credit. So I think Mrs K wouldve noticed this section at the time. 
And although the PPI may not have been  explained to her, she has given her consent for 
the policy to be added  to her account.  There is nothing here to indicate  that she had to 
sign in this section   so I think Mrs K wouldve known she couldve left this section blank 
if she didnt want the PPI.
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs K didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Mrs K says that no information  was given to her at the time of sale,  and that the 
adjudicators assessment  of the sale being  a non-advised sale is incorrect. Ive listened  
to what Mrs K has said, and while I appreciate her evidence is that she wasnt  given any 
information about the PPI, I have to make  a finding on this point to determine what FICL 
shouldve done at the time. 
Based on what FICL has said and what we know of these types of sales,  I think its likely 
this was a non-advised sale. This means  FICL didnt have  to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Ref: DRN73375942Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  and Mrs K says she wasnt given any information about the policy.  But 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs K says the PPI was of no use to her because she had some sick pay at the time and 
her husband couldve  supporter her if needed.  However, for no more than £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ks 
outstanding monthly balance,  until she returned  to work or the outstanding balance  had 
been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition  to the PPI and for longer than Mrs Ks 
full sick pay wouldve lasted her. And while I appreciate Mrs Ks husband wouldve been 
willing to help her, support from others cant always be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change over time.  Ive also not seen any evidence that Mrs K 
had any other savings or insurance  to cover  her in the event  she was made redundant. 
So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs K and I dont think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed her decision to 
take out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7337594