K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (HCL) refused to reschedule her 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP)  finance agreement  because she didnt return 
documentation in time.
background
In September  2017 Mrs Y contacted HCL and asked to reschedule  her finance agreement. 
HCL agreed to reschedule the agreement for an additional 12 months and told Mrs Y that it 
would send her the documents  which were  necessary to amend the finance  agreement 
before the balloon  payment was due.
HCL sent the documents to Mrs Y with a letter asking her to sign and return  them by a 
certain date. However,  HCL didnt receive all of the documents back  from Mrs Y, and those 
which it did receive back were received after the deadline. As a result, Mrs Ys finance 
agreement wasnt extended.  Mrs Y didnt pay the balloon payment and the account fell into 
arrears which  resulted in a default being registered  on her credit  file and debt collectors 
being instructed  to collect the outstanding balance.
Mrs Y complained to HCL. In its final response  HCL gave Mrs Y a number of options on how 
to resolve the issue. Mrs Y wasnt happy with HCLs response because she felt that shed 
reached an agreement  to extend her finance  agreement. She complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that HCL hadnt acted unfairly  in not 
allowing the finance agreement to be extended because  it had done  enough  by sending the 
documents to Mrs Y and making it clear that these  documents needed  to be signed  and 
returned  by a certain date in order for the extension to be finalised.
Mrs Y didnt agree. She said she had reached  a verbal agreement with HCL to extend her 
agreement. She also said that she received the documents from HCL in December 2017  but 
that she wasnt aware of any deadline and although she had returned the documents  she 
couldnt be held responsible for delays with the post over the festive period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Y reached a verbal agreement  with HCL to extend  her finance 
agreement. I dont think it matters whether this agreement was reached in July 2017 (as Mrs 
Y says) or in September 2017 (as HCL says). Mrs Y feels that the verbal agreement was 
sufficient. So Ive considered whether Mrs Y was made aware that she would need to sign 
and return documents  before the extension could be finalised.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs Y and HCL in which the extension was discussed. HCL 
offered a 12 month extension and told Mrs Y it would post the reschedule  agreement  to her 
for signature  and return shortly before her balloon payment was due. Based on the call, Im 
satisfied that HCL made it clear to Mrs Y that she would need to sign and return  these 
documents before the extension could be finalised.
Ref: DRN70512372I can see that HCL sent the documents to Mrs Y in early December 2017. Ive looked at the 
documents which were  sent to Mrs Y. These  make  it clear  that she needed to tick a box on 
the letter and sign and return all of the forms. HCL gave a deadline for returning the forms.
I can see that Mrs Y contacted HCL on 22 December 2017.  The call note indicates that HCL 
reminded Mrs Y that she needed to sign and return the forms in order  to confirm  the 
extension to the finance agreement.
HCL has said that it received the letter  back from Mrs Y but not the documents, and that it 
received this some time after the deadline had expired. Mrs Y hasnt explained why she 
didnt return all of the documents. In relation to the deadline, Mrs Y has said that she wasnt 
aware of the deadline. Shes  also said that she posted the documents back  before she had 
the conversation  with HCL on 22 December 2017. Having looked at the letter which  HCL 
sent to Mrs Y in early December 2017, Im satisfied that the deadline was made clear. And 
looking at the call notes,  I think  its odd that Mrs Y didnt tell HCL that shed already sent the 
documents back, since this would have been an obvious response to HCLs  request during 
the call that she send them back before the deadline. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant be certain of exactly when Mrs Y posted the 
documents back but Im satisfied that the documents  she sent back  were incomplete  and 
received by HCL after the deadline.
I can see that HCL tried to contact Mrs Y by telephone because it hadnt received  all of the 
documents. But these  attempts  were  unsuccessful. In the circumstances, I think  that HCL 
did as much as it could be expected to do in order to obtain the documents  from Mrs Y.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to say that HCL has 
acted unfairly in not extending the agreement.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051237