K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Nationwide Building  Society will not refund any of the 
commission it received from her PPI premiums  for the policy  that she took out in 2005 to 
cover her mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Miss Bs complaint about the commission.
Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. 
Miss B took out her mortgage in March 2005, so her mortgage was regulated. As Miss Bs 
mortgage was regulated  before 6 April 2008 it wasnt covered by the Consumer Credit Act. 
This means  the FCAs  rules and guidance  dont apply. So Nationwide  doesnt  need to refund 
any of the commission  Miss B paid for the PPI she had with her mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7877017