K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the level of assistance provided by Union Reiseversicherung AG 
(URV) under his travel  insurance  policy when he had an accident abroad. 
background
Mr A was on holiday when, unfortunately, he was injured. Mr As wife contacted  URV  on the 
day of the accident to tell it what had happened. 
Two days later, Mr A made  his own arrangements  to return to the UK by ferry. 
Unhappy with URVs delays and the lack of assistance provided,  Mr A complained. URV 
said it was unable to arrange repatriation for Mr A because it hadnt been given a full medical 
report and Mr A was back in the UK before it was in any position to help. 
Mr A then brought  his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt  think URV could be held responsible for any delays in this case. Mr A 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr As policy cover the cost of necessary and emergency  
medical expenses,  necessary travel and accommodation or repatriation costs in the event  of 
your illness,  injury or death  during your trip.
An insurer  is entitled to be satisfied that the policyholders situation is covered  under a policy 
before confirming acceptance of a claim. This includes asking for medical reports  and having 
a reasonable opportunity to review  these. Id expect an insurer  to confirm  cover reasonably  
quickly in circumstances  like this  and to keep the policyholder regularly updated. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr As accident and I can appreciate why he will have been anxious 
to get back to the UK as soon as possible. I understand Mr A thinks  it should have been 
obvious from his x-rays what was wrong and URV  should have  sent a vehicle  to pick him up. 
But this isnt how travel  insurance works and it often takes a few days for repatriation  to be 
arranged. 
So, URV was entitled  to ask for and review Mr As medical reports  to be satisfied it was 
medically necessary  for Mr A to come back to the UK early,  before confirming he was 
covered and assisting  with making arrangements. 
I can see URV was first contacted about  the claim on 5 April 2018. URVs notes show  it was 
told Mr A was in a clinic  as an outpatient and may need surgery. 
The next contact  with URV was on 6 April 2018,  when Mr As wife said Mr A needed to come 
home. URVs notes show it told Mr As wife it would need to see a medical report  before it 
could offer any assistance. Almost immediately afterwards, URV  was sent an email  saying  
Ref: DRN70029312Mr A needed  to get to another town to catch a ferry. The email contained medical reports 
and x-rays but it seems these werent  clear enough  to be read accurately. 
I can see Mr As wife contacted URV twice on the afternoon of 6 April 2018 for an update 
and she was told the information  already received needed to be reviewed. URV told Mr As 
wife that it needed a clearer medical  report just after 6pm on 6 April 2018.  
URVs notes indicate  it sent a medical report to its medical team  for review  on 7 April 2018. 
Mr A returned to the UK on a ferry departing  on the afternoon of the same day, which  he 
arranged himself. 
As Ive mentioned  above, I understand Mr A will have been anxious to get back to the UK. I 
think his frustration is clear from his email sent to URV on the morning of 7 April 2018. And I 
think its also clear Mr A was inconvenienced by having to make  his own arrangements, as 
he had to travel to another town to get a ferry with no assistance from URV. 
It may have been helpful if URV  had clearly explained the process  for arranging  repatriation 
and what the next steps and likely timescales  would be to Mr As wife when she first 
contacted it. 
But, overall, I dont  think  URV acted  unfairly  here  and I dont think  it caused any 
unreasonable delays. URV was providing updates  to Mr As wife and I think  it was working to 
confirm cover as quickly as it could in the circumstances. But before it could receive a 
response from its medical team about  what,  if any, repatriation  arrangements were  
necessary, Mr A was already back in the UK. Im sorry to hear Mr A experienced some 
difficulties with the clinic abroad but theres no indication, based on what  Ive seen, that URV 
said the claim wouldnt be covered at the time. 
This means  I wont  be recommending that URV  should pay Mr A compensation. 
I can see from URVs file that Mr A submitted a claim form to URV for his costs  in returning 
to the UK. Its not clear  whether these have  been  paid. 
If not, and if Mr A is unhappy with this, then hed need to complain to URV first before 
bringing a new complaint  to our service  if he wishes.  Under rules set out by the regulator, we 
have no power to look into a complaint unless the business concerned  has first been given 
the opportunity  to look into things. Based on the information Ive seen,  Mr As only complaint 
to URV to date has been about the delays and lack of assistance received. So these are the 
only complaint points I can address in this decision.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7002931