K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc has unfairly declined their claim for 
subsidence damage to their home  under their home insurance and given them  poor service.
background
I set out the background  to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  in my provisional decision, and here.
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs C noticed that the concrete floor slab in their kitchen was sinking  in
the centre.  They said the kitchen units had dropped by about  20mm on either  side and they
found cracking to the external gable  wall, including bricks adjacent  to the kitchen around the
soil vent pipe. They found loose and cracked mortar  and an air brick under the damp proof
course. Mr and Mrs C said the paving  slabs to the gable wall side of the property were
uneven and inside that wall, cracking on the landing, and the coving there had separated.
St Andrews  appointed loss adjusters to investigate. An engineer visited in April 2018. He
concluded that damage was limited to the kitchen floor slab which is excluded by the policy.
Mr and Mrs C said he carried  out a visual inspection and his report  contained  inaccuracies
about their location  and its topography, and the photos didnt  show the damaged  areas.
Mr and Mrs C thought  the damage  could be due to broken  drains as the dip in the kitchen
floor and damage to the wall were in alignment.  They said the engineer disagreed and so
there was no cover  for the cost of repairs under the subsidence peril of their policy.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to the loss adjusters  who sent a second engineer in May 2018,
who said it is possible the drainage system has become damaged and so leakage could
have caused movement to the property. He recommended a drainage survey, but
Mr and Mrs C said St Andrews didnt follow this up and they became locked into a cycle of
endless phone calls and e-mails with no further  action being  taken.
Mr and Mrs C arranged for a structural engineer. He found the kitchen  floor had settled by
about 25mm towards  the rear of the property. He said walls had cracked and floors were  out
of level  indicating foundation-related  issues. He said the drains  should  be tested and an
investigation to expose the foundations.  Mr and Mrs C arranged  a drains survey in July 2018
that found a leak in the soil pipe and damage to the underground  drainage  system below
their property. They passed this to St Andrews who agreed there  were  problems with the
drains which they could consider under Accidental  Damage  to Services part of their policy. 
Although St Andrews  didnt agree there  was a link to damage to the house it sent drainage
experts in August 2018 to do a CCTV investigation.  They found damage,  which  St Andrews
agreed to cover but no further investigations  were carried  out. Mr and Mrs C said the
drainage firm wouldnt carry  out repairs until the support to the soil pipe was repaired,  which
Mr and Mrs C paid for though they disagreed that this was a maintenance issue. St Andrews
drainage experts  then carried  out the repairs in November and December 2018.
Mr and Mrs C sent St Andrews a second  report from their structural  engineer, in response to
the drainage reports in August 2018.  He said the drains are damaged and leaking which  has
affected adjoining foundations and ground  bearing  strata. And said this would cause  water  to
soften and wash away the supporting ground. He recommended  St Andrews carry out
investigations into the foundations and ground  bearing strata.  Mr and Mrs C complained to
St Andrews  that it wouldnt investigate further and had mishandled  their claim. They  said
theyd contended with family illness and bereavement and have felt under immense stress,
Ref: DRN76049942upset and worry with their claim and a huge amount of their time has been  expended on it.
St Andrews  responded to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint declining their claim again.  It said their
kitchen floor had dropped  due to its weight and thermal movement and this was independent
of any other  damage. St Andrews also thought the damage was due to wear and tear which
it said is excluded from cover unless the foundations are also damaged.  St Andrews said it
wouldnt reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of their structural engineer as the report  hadnt
changed anything. St Andrews said it should  have  arranged  a drain survey sooner (than the
four months it took) and would reimburse  Mr and Mrs C for their drainage survey.
St Andrews  loss adjusters also said cracking  is due to shrinkage or movement of materials
and damp  related issues, but also damage  may be due to water escaping from the drainage
system. St Andrews sent its claims consultant to visit in October 2018 and he concluded
there was no subsidence,  but damage  due to thermal movement. Mr and Mrs C said there
were no tests or trial holes and the visit was just to placate them by telling them there was no
subsidence. Mr and Mrs C said they were offered cover for the displaced pipework and as a
goodwill gesture £235 towards the costs  of their calls and drainage report.
Mr and Mrs C said St Andrews conclusions about  the damage were  inconsistent with their
structural engineer  and St Andrews own adviser  who both indicated it could be due to an
escape of water from the drains.  Mr and Mrs C said the repaired drains may prevent any
further escape of water,  but the existing damage  should be covered under their policy  and St
Andrews hadnt  inspected properly. They said it would cause them hardship to pay to repair
the damage. They said St Andrews payment for their calls and inconvenience was an insult.
Mr and Mrs C said that during the drainage  work it became apparent that the foundation wall
adjacent to the drains and the kitchen  was sodden and badly damaged with holes to the
brickwork. They said water escaping from the damaged drains had been soaking through
holes in the brickwork  of the foundation wall and washing away  the subsoil underneath the
kitchen floor until it became unsupported  and dropped. They  said when they put this to St
Andrews it just repeated  that they werent covered as there was no subsidence damage.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said St Andrews should
have tried to identify the cause of the damage  by means  of site investigations, particularly
after becoming aware of damage to the drainage  and Mr and Mrs Cs report  from the
structural engineer. She said St Andrews havent  got evidence  to say that the damage is 
due to thermal movement  or wear  and tear and their statements were contradictory.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs Cs structural engineer had concluded the leaking drains
will cause subsidence/foundation related defects to worsen. And she thought  this the most
likely cause of the damage.  She recommended St Andrews pay for this report  and £1,000
compensation for the delays and distress caused  to Mr and Mrs C. She also recommended
St Andrews  monitor the property for further movement and carry out superstructure repairs
to the kitchen and other damaged areas.  She didnt recommend St Andrews reimburse  the
cost of repairing  the soil pipe as she thought this was a maintenance issue.
Mr and Mrs C agreed  though were concerned about what  this meant for their home.
St Andrews  disagreed saying theres  no cover  for the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs home  and
so it wont pay. It said the damage would have occurred gradually and the wall cracks were
horizontal not downwards as with subsidence.  And it said there are no drains in the area of
greatest floor settlement and drains would be unlikely to damage underground fill material
Ref: DRN76049943which has consolidated  on its own account.  It said previous references to the damage  being
due to wear and tear were  mistaken. It thought the compensation  it had paid was sufficient.
St Andrews  said monitoring wouldnt determine subsidence, and much can be determined
by a visual inspection  - it remained of the view the claim  was correctly declined.  St Andrews
requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I said that Mr and Mrs C had shown  there  was damage to their home from photos and the 
report from their structural engineer said this was subsidence-related. St Andrews took the 
view at the outset  that the damage wasnt subsidence-related and so it didnt carry out in-
depth investigations or monitoring  as is normally associated  with the damage from the 
movement on a property.
St Andrews  accepted it gave differing reasons  for the cause of damage to Mr and Mrs Cs 
home. It said it was wrong to dismiss Mr and Mrs Cs concerns that their drainage  was 
damaged. St Andrews  decided that the kitchen floor moved  due to fill material below 
compacting and this was why there  hadnt been  the same  magnitude  of movement to the 
walls. It said there is no subsidence in the outside walls. 
Mr and Mrs C said the damage  to the walls  was concentrated in the area near the drains and 
mirrored internally. They experts supported their view that this is subsidence.  I have seen 
that their drainage  experts  reported  ongoing  subsidence in their home. And Mr and Mrs Cs 
structural engineer  agreed, We are of the opinion that the property is suffering from ongoing 
subsidence, such that additional investigations  should be carried out to determine the 
condition/suitability of the existing foundations and ground bearing strata.
St Andrews  drainage experts reported,  We found multiple issues  including cracks and
displaced joints The most probable  cause  of damage is localised ground movement. St
Andrews loss adjusters  further reported,  leakage from the damaged  pipes has the potential
to cause movement  to the property.
St Andrews  appeared to accept theres been  ground  movement, but didnt think  this was 
linked to the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs home.  I thought ground movement caused by 
damaged drains  is regularly diagnosed  as a factor in subsidence and the reports didnt say 
the drains problem  was unrelated to the damage  to the house. I thought it possible that the 
uncontrolled release of water from the drains had reduced the density of soil and fill material  
beneath Mr and Mrs Cs home causing subsidence.
Mr and Mrs Cs structural engineer said, I think the drains are a likely  cause  of subsidence 
to the property. St Andrews repaired the drainage at Mr and Mrs Cs home. Having 
reviewed all the evidence,  I thought  the claim shouldnt be declined  for subsidence as the 
cracks to Mr and Mrs Cs home looked  new and not like wear and tear. St Andrews
reassessed the damage, but I dont think the evidence supported  its contrary  position.
I said there havent been the investigations  we would  normally expect to see to support St
Andrews conclusions about the damage. St Andrews said that once the drains  were  
repaired there was no point in carrying out subsidence monitoring. I agreed as
drainage collapse  is a common cause of subsidence  and these have been  repaired.
I thought that by not carrying out thorough  investigations St Andrews hadnt been  able to
Ref: DRN76049944identify a cause  for the damage. I thought it would be fair for St Andrews to deal with the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Cs home  under the subsidence peril in their home insurance policy. 
I thought that St Andrews should  carry out lasting and effective repairs  including  repair of 
the kitchen floor and parts  of the kitchen damaged by damp. And replacement of decorations  
to the landing and coving  and hallway damaged by movement. Where paving  stones  outside  
have become unlevel I thought they should  be reinstated so they are level.
I thought that damage to the external soil pipe was a consequence of the subsidence that 
has affected Mr and Mrs Cs home and so I thought St Andrews should reimburse this cost 
at £726. And their structural engineers  report for £425.
I considered the stress and inconvenience  that Mr and Mrs C have  suffered  with their claim. 
Im aware of the difficulties they faced. St Andrews  acknowledged  its delay  in carrying  out 
drainage investigation and noted  it should have  appointed a personal claims consultant to 
assist Mr and Mrs C with their claim.  There were further delays caused by St Andrews and I 
thought it should have  given clearer reasons  for declining the claim. I thought  compensation 
of £1,000 was fair for the distress and inconvenience this caused  Mr and Mrs C.
Both St Andrews and Mr and Mrs C said they will accept my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  to the dispute have  accepted  the resolution as set out within  my provisional 
decision and so I see no reason to change  my view. And so I remain  of the view that the 
complaint should  be upheld  and for the reasons I set out within my provisional decision.
Im pleased St Andrews  has accepted the provisional decision and I hope  progress on the 
repairs to Mr and Mrs Cs home can begin  shortly. It is open to Mr and Mrs C to request that 
monitoring takes place  before repairs take place if the prospect of further movement remains  
a concern to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.  I require St 
Andrews Insurance  Plc to accept Mr and Mrs Cs claim for damage to their home under the 
subsidence peril of their policy,  and to carry out lasting and effective repairs of the 
subsidence-related damage to Mr and Mrs Cs home.
I think St Andrews is entitled to charge  the policy excess for subsidence claims, but no other
excess should be incurred  by Mr and Mrs C and any paid should be refunded.
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to reimburse  Mr and Mrs C for the cost of the repair 
around the external soil vent at £726.  And their structural engineers report  for £425,  on 
production of the relevant  invoices. 
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £1,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience its handling  and decisions on their claim has caused them.  This 
would be in addition  to the £235  compensation already paid by St Andrews to Mr and Mrs C 
for their phone calls.
Ref: DRN76049945Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7604994