K821x#15complaint
Ms R has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Avivas) handling  of a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy for damage to her property caused by subsidence.
background
I issued a provisional decision in September 2020  explaining that I was intending  to partially  
uphold Ms Rs complaint.  Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of Aviva.  For ease  of reference, Ill refer only to Aviva by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents. Similarly, Ms R has brought  her complaint 
to our service through a representative. But Ill only refer to Ms R in this decision, 
even when referring to arguments put forward by her representative.
In 2015 Ms Rs property  suffered damage  to some underground pipes below  her 
basement. This caused  her basement to flood and a sinkhole to open which  Ms R 
had repaired.  Following this Ms R started to notice  cracking in her property.  She 
reported this to a local engineer who monitored  the damage for a period. He noted  no 
significant progressive movement over an eight-month period  but confirmed the 
damage had worsened in that time.
In September  2016 Ms R reported the damage as a claim to Aviva  as she felt it was 
getting worse. Aviva  instructed a subsidence specialist to visit the property and 
produce a report on the likely cause of the damage. The expert report concluded that 
the property was suffering from subsidence as a result of shrinkage  of the clay 
subsoil. It identified trees both inside and outside of Ms Rs property boundary  as a 
possible cause and recommended  trial hole investigations and an arborist report  to 
determine which trees were the cause. It suggested removal  of the implicated trees  
and monitoring for a period of 12 months.
Aviva says its investigations concluded  that the soil beneath Ms Rs property was 
desiccated (dehydrated) and that tree roots were found which were identified  as 
belonging to an Acer tree/trees. The Acer trees are outside of Ms Rs property 
boundary and belong to the local authority. 
Since this point there has been a dispute between Aviva and the local authority over 
the cause of the subsidence. There have been several additional site visits and 
investigations in the form of boreholes, drainage surveys and level monitoring. 
Several conflicting  reports have been completed off the back of these visits and 
investigations. Aviva maintains that the Acer trees are causing clay shrinkage, which  
is causing the damage. The local authority says Aviva is trying  to shift liability.  It says 
the movement  is structural and not caused by ground movement. 
Both Aviva and the local authority  instructed  legal  representation who spent time 
corresponding on the issue.  But despite  this, their respective positions  remained the 
same. So, in mid-2019 Aviva took the decision to proceed with another  method of 
stabilising Ms Rs property   underpinning  and says it will seek reimbursement from 
the local authority,  after the fact.
Ref: DRN75037992Ms R has complained about the length of time Aviva has taken  to settle her claim. 
She says it has been clear for a number of years that the local authority wasnt going 
to remove its trees.  She says Aviva should have moved to stabilise her property 
some time ago. Instead it left her in a house  which she feels has been  uninhabitable  
for several  years.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Rs complaint. She pointed out that she 
hadnt seen most of the available expert reports from either Aviva or the local 
authority. But based  on those she had seen, she felt it ought  to have been clear  from 
2017 that the local authority wouldnt remove the trees. So, she felt Aviva should 
have taken alternative action to stabilise the property at that point. She said Ms R 
had been left in house that was deteriorating significantly, and this would  have 
caused Ms R an enormous amount of distress. 
Our investigator recommended that Aviva start superstructure  repairs  as soon  as 
possible, and definitely before winter 2019. She said Aviva  should reimburse Ms R 
for an electricians invoice and that it should  assess damage to her furniture caused 
by dust and debris coming in through  the cracks in her property. Finally, she 
recommended that Aviva  should pay Ms R £5,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she had suffered as a result of its failure to start stabilisation  works in 
2017.
Aviva didnt agree with all of our investigators recommendations. It said it could 
arrange to inspect the furniture and would consider the electrician costs. It said it was 
in the process  of obtaining a party wall agreement so that it could  commence with 
stabilisation before any superstructure repairs were completed. But it didnt agree 
that any compensation was warranted. It said it completed temporary  repairs to the 
cracking in 2017  and offered to do so again on several occasions. It said subsidence 
claims were  often  complex and could  take a long time to resolve, particularly where a 
third party is involved.  It reiterated that the expert evidence it obtained throughout the 
claim shows that the dominant cause of the issues are the Acer trees. It felt it had 
been making reasonable efforts to obtain agreement from the local authority to 
remove the trees, including the appointment of legal  representation.
Our investigators opinion  remained unchanged. So, because no agreement was 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I asked Aviva to provide  me with each of the expert  reports  produced as part of the 
claim along with a timeline  of all communications with the local authority  which  
hadnt been provided to our service previously. Having now received and reviewed 
that information, Im proceeding with this provisional decision.
my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Ms Rs property has suffered from damage caused by 
subsidence, or that her policy provides cover for this. It also isnt in dispute that the 
claim has taken  a number  of years to reach  this point,  which  will have been upsetting 
for Ms R. 
Ref: DRN75037993Aviva has now accepted that the local authority will not be removing the trees.  It has 
designed the stabilisation scheme  and obtained  a signed party wall agreement.  It will 
be underpinning Ms Rs property and completing the necessary superstructure  
repairs. So, all that remains for me to decide  is whether Aviva has caused  any 
unnecessary delays during the claim and if so, whether it would be responsible for 
some of the distress experienced  by Ms R.
Firstly, I should explain  that underpinning a property is generally  considered  as a 
preventative measure, which isnt something  that is covered  under  Ms Rs policy. I 
would only expect an insurer  to carry out underpinning in situations  where  the 
property could not be stabilised another way, such as by removing the cause of the 
subsidence. So, I dont  think  it was unreasonable of Aviva to spend time liaising with 
the local authority  about having its trees removed in the first instance.
I accept that subsidence claims can be complex and time consuming. Its not unusual  
for monitoring to take place over a period of 12 months, so that the property can be 
observed during  all the seasons. And where there is a third party involved, as there 
has been in this case, claims can take even longer to resolve. While this will all have 
been understandably distressing for Ms R, Ill only be considering  compensation 
where I believe the distress has been  caused by the actions (or lack of the same)  of 
Aviva  not by the claim in general.
Ms R argues  that it has been  clear  for a number  of years that the local authority was 
not going to remove its trees. Based on this she says Aviva  ought to have moved to 
stabilise her property  another way much sooner than it has done.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Rs argument here. Based on the timeline of events 
Ive seen, I can see that Aviva carried out investigations into the cause of damage 
which included the digging of boreholes. The investigations established that the 
property foundation was supported on clay and that within the clay was the presence 
of tree roots. Moisture readings taken from the clay indicated  that it was subjected to 
reduced moisture resulting in shrinkage.  The roots were also tested and found to be 
from Acer trees. Aviva presented this evidence to the owner  of the Acer trees   the 
local authority  which is what I would expect it to do in this situation.  
The local authority advised it wanted to see 12 months monitoring results before it 
would make  a decision. It then later asked for a joint site visit to take place  before 
any decision  was made. I think  it was reasonable  for Aviva to agree to this. The local 
authority was engaging with the process  and hadnt  given any indication  that it 
wouldnt remove  the trees   provided the evidence  conclusively showed that it 
needed to.
During the joint site meeting the local authority representative stated that they didnt 
believe there was sufficient evidence that the trees were causing subsidence.  He 
said they didnt believe  Aviva had fully investigated the previous cellar flooding  as a 
possible cause of the damage. Based on this, Aviva agreed to carry out further 
investigations of the cellar to satisfy  the local authority that the trees  were the 
dominant cause of the property moving.
Ref: DRN75037994At this stage the local authority was still not saying  it wouldnt remove  the trees if the 
evidence suggested it needed  to. But it felt further investigation was necessary to 
evidence this. So again, I think Avivas decision to carry out further  investigations in 
the hope of gaining  consent to remove  the trees  was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Aviva visited the property again in December 2017. During this visit it dug a third 
borehole in the cellar. No sinkhole was discovered. Aviva  maintained that the 
available evidence  supported that the cause of subsidence was clay shrinkage 
caused by the roots of the Acer trees. But as the local authority felt strongly that the 
drainage may still be leaking, Aviva arranged  for the local water authority to come 
and check the drains.
In February  2018 Aviva visited the property again and produced an addendum to the 
previous engineering report. This stated that the monitoring was conclusive, and it 
was clear the cause  of the subsidence was clay shrinkage due to tree roots.  It 
explained that if the local authority didnt agree  to remove  the trees  then the only 
possible solution would  be to underpin Ms Rs property. The report  suggested  that 
Aviva should refer back to the local authority with all the evidence  and ask for its final 
decision. This was explained to Ms R at the time.
Aviva gave the local authority until the end of March 2018 to respond. But by that 
stage the results of the water authority drainage inspection  still hadnt been received. 
In May 2018, Ms R confirmed she had received a letter from the water  authority 
confirming there was no issue with her drain.  
Aviva produced a draft schedule of works to include the underpinning  and shared this 
with the local authoritys legal representatives in early June  2018  asking for a 
decision on tree removal within 28 days. It also shared  further  monitoring results 
which showed  recovery at the front right corner of the property  further supporting its 
position  and updated Ms R on the progress of the claim. Given it had further 
evidence to support the necessity of tree removal at this stage, I think it was 
reasonable to refer back to the local authority representatives before proceeding with 
underpinning  which would likely be unnecessary if the trees could be removed.
In early July 2018 Ms R called Aviva to explain that the local authority sent a 
surveyor to her property to complete their own report. This found  that lateral  restraint  
issues with one of the property walls  and issues with Ms Rs drainage, rather  than 
clay shrinkage, were  the most likely causes of damage.  It said if Aviva proceeded 
with underpinning  without first addressing  these issues it could cause further 
damage. Based on this report the local authority representatives  asked for another  
joint site visit. Aviva maintained that the evidence from its visits and engineers  
supported that the issues were being caused  by clay shrinkage.  But it agreed to send 
its engineers to a meeting to try and resolve the concerns. 
Ref: DRN75037995I can appreciate  Ms Rs concerns with the length  of time the claim was taking at this 
stage, particularly as Aviva had told her it would commence with underpinning if it 
didnt get agreement  to remove  the trees, from the local authority, by the end of 
March 2018.  However, as the local authority had introduced new evidence  at this 
stage and was still engaging with the prospect of further investigations, I dont  think 
its fair to say that it was clear  at this point that it wouldnt remove  the trees. And 
given that its new evidence suggested  moving  to underpin at this stage could cause 
further damage,  I think it was reasonable for Aviva to agree to a further  meeting. I 
also note that Aviva kept Ms R suitably updated  on the developments at this time.
The site visit wasnt  able to be arranged quickly because of the number of people, 
from various entities, who wanted  to attend. However, I can see that in the meantime, 
Aviva appointed a contractor to visit her property  and price up the required  remedial  
work to avoid any delays  once  the site visit had taken  place.
The joint site visit took place in September 2018. The local authority wanted  to 
conduct further trial hole (borehole)  investigations to establish the depth of the 
foundations. It was suggested that Aviva  should  complete more temporary repairs  in 
the meantime, but Ms R didnt want sealant or expanding foam  to be used.  Aviva  
agreed to cover increased heating bills as Ms R reported additional usage  to combat  
drafts. Based on the concerns from the local authoritys  representatives,  Aviva 
suggested that it would  appoint a new, independent engineer to investigate the 
situation. I think this was a reasonable step to take given  the dispute between the two 
sets of experts at this stage.
Aviva appointed an independent engineer to review the situation. He reviewed all the 
available reports and monitoring data, and also visited  Ms Rs property to carry out 
his own investigation. His report was available from November 2018 and stated that 
in his view, the substantive and effective cause of the damage was the effects of the 
trees owned  by the local authority.
Around this time Ms R appointed  her representative and raised her complaint about 
the lack of progress  with her claim.  She also reported concerns  that her chimney 
stack was unsafe and that her property was uninhabitable due to the damage.
Avivas engineer spoke with Ms R and agreed that they would attend to assess  her 
concerns with whether the property was habitable. It was also agreed that Aviva 
would give the local authority one final opportunity to agree to tree removal  before 
Aviva proceeded to underpin. This was based  on advice Aviva received from its legal 
representative. In early  February 2019 Avivas  engineer  stated that he felt the 
property was habitable. He said there was no evidence  that the chimney was unsafe. 
But he confirmed that alternative accommodation  would  be needed when the repairs  
started.
Later in February 2019,  Ms R reported  a potential water leak in her drains and asked 
Aviva to investigate it. It was confirmed in March 2019  that Ms Rs drains were 
unaffected by subsidence,  and no leak into Ms Rs cellar could be found. Ms R also 
reported issues with her gas and electric  which she felt was linked to the subsidence. 
Aviva offered  to inspect these areas and to reconsider its position on whether the 
property was habitable.
Ref: DRN75037996Avivas engineer confirmed that Ms R had use of the kitchen and bathroom facilities,  
but that one room  of the house couldnt be used due to an issue with the central  
heating. He reiterated that temporary repairs had been offered on several  occasions  
to prevent/mitigate the drafts experienced and that Aviva had offered to cover 
additional heating costs. Based  on the loss of use of one of her rooms,  Aviva agreed 
to pay a disturbance allowance payment to Ms R of £75 per week  backdated to the 
start of her complaint. But it didnt agree  to put Ms R in alternative accommodation  as 
the property was still deemed habitable.  The issues with Ms Rs utilities were also not 
found to be as a result  of the subsidence.
Where a property retains a fully functioning kitchen, bathroom  and sleeping area, I 
wouldnt usually  expect  an insurer to class it as being uninhabitable,  even where  
some rooms are unable to be used.  In this case, I think  Aviva  offered a fair and 
reasonable solution  by paying some additional disturbance allowance.  The amount it 
paid is in line with what I would likely have recommended had it not already have 
done so. Ive also thought  about the fact that Aviva has been making this payment 
when considering  whether  I think additional compensation, for distress and 
inconvenience, should be paid.
In April 2019, the local authority produced another  engineers report  on Ms Rs 
property and the likely causes of the damage. This reported essentially stated that 
Aviva had been too quick to blame  the trees  and had done  so to avoid further 
investigations. It referred back  to the first report Ms R had completed in 2016  which  
identified issues with lateral movement  of the walls due to their construction.  The 
report concluded that the cause of ongoing  movement was structural and not a result 
of ground movement. This report was provided to Aviva in early-May 2019.
This report was considered by Avivas  engineers and its legal representatives. In 
June 2019, they maintained that they had sufficient evidence to implicate the trees. 
Aviva sent a final notification to the local authority giving  it eight weeks  to remove the 
trees. It confirmed that if the trees werent  removed it would commence its 
underpinning solution after that eight-week period. Aviva wrote to Ms R in August 
2019 confirming the local authority had not responded and asking to arrange a site 
visit to design the scope of works  for the underpinning. Aviva also began  the process 
of obtaining  a party  wall agreement from Ms Rs neighbour, which was needed  to 
complete the underpinning  and repairs.
Since Aviva started the process of moving to stabilise Ms Rs property, it also seems  
that it has had issues with one of its appointed contractors  causing delays. Some of 
these delays were as a result of the pandemic and the Government imposed 
lockdown  which would  be somewhat  unavoidable. But Aviva seems to have  taken 
the step of appointing a new contractor, so clearly  it feels some of the delays were 
avoidable and/or  unacceptable.
I fully appreciate Ms Rs strength of feeling  about the length of time her claim has 
taken. I can see that Aviva told the local authority  it would move to underpin  several 
times before  it took the decision to do so. But at each  stage  the local authority either 
asked for further evidence or a meeting or introduced new evidence itself which 
required consideration. I dont think its correct  to suggest that it should have been  
clear that the local authority absolutely wouldnt agree to removal of the trees before 
it submitted its April 2019 report.
Ref: DRN75037997Ive thought  carefully about the condition of Ms Rs property. And while I understand 
her reasons for not wanting to accept further  temporary repairs, I dont think  its fair to 
say that the offer was inappropriate. The sealing of cracks caused by movement is a 
suitable temporary solution to drafts. Clearly during the periods of increased 
movement (the summer) the sealant may crack  or fall out. But in the winter months,  
when the property recovers and the cracks tend to close or reduce, its likely to offer 
at least some protection. And Aviva also offered to cover Ms Rs increased heating 
bills. So, overall, I think Aviva made reasonable efforts to reduce the distress and 
inconvenience Ms R was being caused while investigations and negotiations were  
ongoing.
That said, having considered the full timeline  of events, there were a few occasions  
where I think Aviva  could have acted more quickly than it did. For example, Ms R had 
raised her concerns about  the previous water leak and sink hole being the cause of 
the damage  several times, yet no borehole was dug in the cellar  until the local 
authority insisted  on it during the first joint site meeting several months later. And 
likewise, little consideration appears to have been given to the first structural  
engineers report in 2016  which suggested  issues with the lateral  restraint of the 
walls. It seems this was only taken into account properly following the local authority 
report in June 2018. This likely added additional  time to the claim.
Overall, I think Aviva  has, largely,  progressed Ms Rs claim as quickly  and efficiently  
as it could have  done in the circumstances. However, there were a few occasions 
where things could have gone  better, and I think Ms R has suffered some  distress 
and inconvenience  as a result of these issues. So, in addition to proceeding with the 
required stabilisation and superstructure repairs, I think Aviva should pay Ms R £500 
compensation. Aviva should also consider other  elements of Ms Rs claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of her policy  (additional  heating costs,  alternative 
accommodation etc).
I said I was intending  to direct Aviva  to complete the proposed  underpinning and 
superstructure repairs and to settle the remainder of Ms Rs claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy.  I said it should  also pay Ms R £500  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  it has caused her during the claim.
I asked both sides to provide  any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
Aviva confirmed that it accepted my provisional  findings. Ms R responded to say that all she 
wants is for her property  to be repaired so she can put the claim behind  her. She highlighted 
that it had been the most difficult five years of her life, causing a great deal of stress and 
inconvenience. And she reiterated  that her property  currently remains in a poor state of 
repair. 
Ms R also questioned whether she was entitled  to alternative  accommodation during the 
repairs and highlighted that Aviva had agreed to reimburse  her £150 for an electricians 
invoice she needed  to pay because of an issue caused by Avivas contractors.
my findings
Ive re-considered  all the evidence and arguments already  sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75037998Ms R has highlighted  how difficult the period of the claim has been on her, and I truly 
sympathise. I considered  this carefully when reaching my provisional decision. In that 
decision, I explained why I thought Aviva had, largely, progressed the claim as quickly and 
efficiently as it could  have done  in the circumstances. And that its offers  of carrying  out 
temporary repairs, while the claim was progressing, were reasonable. But I also highlighted 
some things Aviva could have done  better, and the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
these issues had caused Ms R. 
Ive reconsidered  the circumstances of Ms Rs claim in light of her additional  comments, but I 
remain of the view that £500 compensation is enough  to fairly compensate her for the 
avoidable issues, caused by Aviva.
In my provisional decision I also said that Aviva should settle the remainder of Ms Rs claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of her policy. So, Ill leave it for Aviva  and 
Ms R to sort out the specific  items between them. But I can confirm that Ms Rs policy does 
provide cover for alternative accommodation,  and Avivas engineer  has previously confirmed 
that it will be needed when the repairs are carried out. Aviva has also confirmed that it will 
cover the electricity invoice mentioned by Ms R.
my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Rs 
complaint in part. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
Complete the proposed underpinning and carry out the required superstructure  
repairs.
Settle the remainder  Ms Rs claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy
Pay Ms R £500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her 
during the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7503799