K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint relates to the performance of the funds within  his stakeholder  pension  held 
with Scottish Widows  Limited (trading as Halifax Financial  Services).
background
Mr H took out a stakeholder pension with Halifax Financial Services in 2002.
Mr H contacted Halifax in September  2017 after receiving his annual statement. And he 
asked for information  about the performance  of his funds and the charges applied. But he 
wasnt happy with the response he received and made a complaint.
Halifax issued its final response letter in November 2017. It didnt uphold  his complaint.
Mr H contacted Halifax again in October 2018.  And he again asked for a full breakdown  of 
the charges deducted from the plan and a justification of its performance.
Halifax responded to Mr H. It said that it had responded to his complaint in its letter  of 10 
November 2017,  and its original decision remained unchanged.  In relation to the 
performance of Mr Hs funds it said, in summary, that while  Mr Hs funds were in the lower  
risk category  of funds  this did not mean no risk.
Mr H then referred his complaint to this service,  but Halifax didnt consent to this service 
considering the complaint which had already been considered in 2017  that about 
charges applied to the fund. Our adjudicator  considered whether this service  had 
jurisdiction to look at Mr Hs complaint.  He concluded that we were only able to look at the 
part of his complaint relating to performance of the funds after 10 November 2017 (the 
date of the final response letter). 
Another adjudicator  then looked at the merits of that part of Mr Hs complaint. But she felt 
that Halifaxs response was fair - and so she didnt uphold it.
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked us to look again at the issue  of 
jurisdiction. He also made further points about  the merits of the complaint relating to fund 
performance. These points can be summarised as follows:
The essence of the complaint was to require Halifax  to provide detail of the charges on 
his pension  funds   this should have been  possible,  and if not, there  was an issue with 
transparency;
Without details of the charges,  a proper evaluation of the fund performance wouldnt  be 
possible  and therefore such an investigation hadnt been undertaken by this service.
The adjudicator responded, acknowledging  that the charges may affect the performance of 
the fund, but she reaffirmed that this had already been dealt with by the business,  and that it 
would be unable to provide the breakdown which Mr H sought. She also said she was 
satisfied that the funds  had been  managed as they should have been   and noted that those 
funds had been selected by Mr H, rather than the business.
Ref: DRN75443272Mr H disagreed, however,  maintaining that a proper evaluation of the fund performance 
couldnt be done without knowledge  of the charges. He said that if the system of calculating 
the charges was so complex  that the breakdown  couldnt be provided, this service should 
insist that the business alters that system.  Mr H also asserted  that the adjudicator had 
accepted Halifaxs  commentary on charges at face value.
The matter  was then referred to me for review. I issued my decision on jurisdiction on 17 
September 2019. In summary,  I agreed  with our adjudicator that Mr H had brought the part 
of his complaint  relating to charges too late, as he had brought it to this service more than 
six months after the date of the final response  letter. As a result,  we were only able to look 
at the part of his complaint relating to the performance of his stakeholder  pension  since 
10 November 2017.
In response, Mr H acknowledged that the complaint  regarding fund performance after 
October 2017 would  be addressed  but reiterated  his view that this couldnt properly be 
achieved without addressing the issue of charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Halifax has dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly. I appreciate that this will come 
as a disappointment  to Mr H, so Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ive noted Mr Hs further comments relating to our jurisdiction to consider the charges 
aspect of his complaint.  Mr H hasnt  commented  further on the timeliness issue, which  is 
central to my findings  on jurisdiction - and I maintain  my conclusion  as set out in the 
jurisdiction decision that the complaint about  charges was brought  too late, and that no 
exceptional circumstances  applied which meant  that this service  could consider that 
particular aspect of the complaint. 
So this decision cannot consider the matter of charges. Its not a matter of reluctance to do 
so  nor a matter of this service simply accepting  Halifaxs word for the amount which has 
been deducted. Its a case that this service is simply unable  to investigate this.
Mr H has nevertheless repeated his point about not being able to properly consider fund 
performance without knowing the breakdown of charges. But I disagree.  High charges will 
impact on overall fund performance, but other  factors are involved. I dont consider it 
necessary to investigate  the charging structure  in order  to determine, for example, whether a 
fund has been  managed  in accordance with the stated aims of that fund, or that its invested  
in the type of assets set out in the fund literature.
These are types of issues  which this service would be able to look at in terms of poor fund 
performance - and which have been  considered here. But as the adjudicator  explained, fund 
performance alone, which might simply be a result of general market conditions,  isnt 
something we would consider.
And that latter issue is what I think has contributed to the disappointing returns  Mr H has 
seen in recent years in his pension funds. The available evidence,  for example fund fact 
sheets, doesnt  support  the position that the fund has invested in the wrong types of assets, 
and nor have I seen evidence of any other type of fund mismanagement.
Ref: DRN75443273Mr Hs annual statement dated  8 September 2018  showed that the value of his plan had 
decreased by approximately £5,600 since the previous  year as a result  of investment 
performance. And I appreciate  that Mr H is disappointed by the fall in the value of his 
pension. But Im not persuaded that the fall is a result of any error on Halifaxs part. As 
Halifax has previously explained,  although  Mr Hs funds are in the lowest  risk category, this 
does not mean that they do not carry any risk. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.  
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7544327