K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) is that it didnt allow  him to 
open a credit card account after initially saying he could.
background
Mr F was an existing  customer  of Capital One.  In March 2019  he applied  online for a Capital 
One credit  card account. Initially he was told his application had been successful, only to be 
told shortly afterwards that following further  checks  Capital One wouldnt be offering him the 
account afterall.
Mr F was very unhappy with this. He felt Capital Ones marketing for the account  Apply  now 
and well say Yes was misleading, and that he hadnt been given a good  enough  reason as 
to why Capital  One had changed its mind.
He complained to Capital  One, and said he wanted the account to be opened, to be repaid 
£50.52 interest  that hed incurred on another card due to being  unable to use his new 
account, and to receive compensation.
Capital One replied saying that it didnt believe it had made a mistake,  and that it wasnt  
willing to change its decision  not to allow Mr F to open a new credit card account. It 
explained that it did have a reason for this decision, but wasnt  obliged  to say what  it was as 
it related to its internal lending criteria. 
Mr F was very unhappy with this response, so brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  considered all of the evidence, including two further  submissions from Mr F, 
and concluded  that Capital One hadnt  made a mistake, or treated him unfairly. She felt that 
it was ultimately its commercial discretion as to how,  and to whom, to lend and that there 
wasnt any evidence to suggest that this decision was anything other than a legitimate 
exercise of this discretion.
Mr F disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Mr Fs strength of feeling  is very clear. He feels hes been poorly treated 
and misled by Capital One. He says he understands that banks cant  be told who to lend to, 
but that in his case he was given approval,  which  he didnt accept was provisional, and that 
Capital One was obliged to stand  by that decision and proceed to open  his account.
Im afraid I dont agree. Id like to explain why.
The terms and conditions  applicable to the account Mr F applied  for make it clear  that the 
results of further checks could impact  whether or not the account can be opened/operated.  
The agreement will not be legally  binding unless and until all creditworthiness
and affordability,  fraud, identity and other checks have been completed
successfully.
Ref: DRN77745082The principle  being that Capital One shouldnt be bound to an agreement  where  new and 
relevant information  comes to light that changes  the circumstances.  I cant say that this is 
unfair or unreasonable, or that Mr F wasnt aware of this condition. 
So the legal position is that Capital One can still decide, even after initially approving  an 
account, and on the basis of further information,  not to proceed  with it.
Then theres  the commercial position, which is that its a matter  for Capital Ones own 
legitimate commercial discretion to decide who to lend to. Mr F suggests that he may not 
have been an attractive  customer because he wasnt  paying  much interest. We dont  know 
what Capital Ones reason is here, but even if Mr Fs right then thats still a commercial 
decision Capital Ones entitled  to make. 
I do appreciate that Mr F feels misled.  He believed he was getting a credit  card,  and made 
arrangements accordingly. So when circumstances  changed, he was understandably  
disappointed and inconvenienced. But I cant say that this was caused by an error, 
recklessness, or malice on Capital Ones part. I believe its terms and conditions make  it 
clear that its allowed  to change its mind,  which is what it did here.  And I also accept that it 
doesnt have to give Mr F its reason. Mr F may wish to speculate as to what  this reason is, 
but I need evidence to convince me that it was unfair. 
My role in the course of this complaint  is to consider the evidence, and reach an outcome  I 
think is fair to both parties. For me to say Capital One was wrong in declining Mr F for an 
account wouldnt be fair because Ive no evidence  to suggest its made a mistake, or treated 
Mr F poorly,  in coming to its decision. What  happened  was unfortunate and inconvenient for 
Mr F, but thats not the same as saying it was wrong.
As such,  I wont be asking  it to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. I know  this 
decision will be very disappointing for Mr F, and hope Ive explained why I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7774508