K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI)  charged him for paying off a loan early 
when it told him it would not.
background
Mr F took out a BoI loan in August 2018.  He says he asked BoI during two separate calls if 
there would be an Early Repayment Charge  (ERC)  and says he was told there  would not be. 
Mr F paid the loan back early and then found out he had been charged an ERC which he 
says was about £260. He says hes spent some  time sorting this matter out and would like 
compensation for that as well as the ERC refunded.  He says if BoI had given him the correct  
information he would have taken out a loan with a business I will call N which does  not 
charge an ERC.
BoI accept  that it gave Mr F incorrect information  about  the ERC but says any request to 
settle a loan early  carries an ERC. Its offered £100  compensation for the incorrect  
information but will not refund the ERC.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us and our investigator issued  three views. In his first view he 
recommended BoI increase  its compensation offer to £175 but thought Mr F would have had 
to pay the ERC regardless of which lender  he used.  In the investigators  third view he upheld 
the complaint  in full and thought BoI had given Mr F incorrect information  and so it should 
refund the ERC and pay £100  compensation.
BoI says it will agree to increase  the compensation offer to £175 but says its not seen any 
new evidence Mr F must have provided  for the investigator to have changed his mind.
Mr F accepts that investigators  view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator reached  in his third view for the reasons I will explain.  I cant  
see that Mr F has provided any new information  to us about  his complaint as BoL believes 
but has told us that N does  not charge an ERC.  
The calls from August  2018 have not been kept and so I cant  listen  to them. But there is no 
doubt that Mr F was given  incorrect information  about an ERC. Im satisfied that having 
looked at the information  Mr F has given us and told BoI about, that this was an important 
part of the decision  to borrow money  . And I can see that the loan was settled early which  
again I think provides  further evidence that the ERC was important to Mr F as I think he 
intended to repay the loan early.
So, as there  is no dispute  that Mr F was given incorrect information,  Im satisfied the fairest 
approach would be for BoI to refund the ERC. I cant see either side has provided the exact 
figure but BoI can calculate it and refund it. I dont think any interest  should  be paid on that 
amount as I also think that Mr F ought to take some responsibility for what  took place. This 
was an important part of the decision to borrow from BoI so I would have expected Mr F to 
have read the loan terms and conditions before agreeing to them.
Ref: DRN76623102I appreciate that BoI says that an ERC would have payable regardless of with whom Mr F 
borrowed money. But I dont accept that is the case with all lenders and Im satisfied that 
many businesses do not charge an ERC  including  N.
I have no doubt  Mr F has spent some time in bringing this complaint and in speaking  to BoI 
about it. So I accept  he has been caused inconvenience  and agree  with BoI and the 
investigator that £100 compensation is appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to pay 
Mr F £100 compensation and calculate the ERC  and refund that amount  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662310