K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading at the time as Halifax  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1999.
background
Miss W bought a PPI policy when  she took out a mortgage in 1999. This policy  would have 
covered her if she was off work  because  of an accident, sickness  or if she lost her job. 
It cost her around £12.79 per month and would have  paid her a benefit of £241.39 if she 
made a successful claim for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Ws claim should be upheld.  Miss W disagreed with this 
view and asked that her matter be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I appreciate Miss W will be disappointed with my 
decision but I will explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Miss W was given a fair choice  about  buying the 
cover. Miss W has told us that it wasnt made  clear  to her that the PPI was optional. She 
also said that she was told she would have a better chance of getting the mortgage if she 
chose to take out the cover. Halifax had to give Miss W an option  about buying the PPI. So 
Ive looked at the paperwork available,  as well as thinking about  what  both parties have told 
us and taking  into account what we know about  the way this business sold these types  of 
policy generally, to help me decide.
Halifax has been able to provide us with a copy of the mortgage  application  form. This has 
been completed and there  is a section on the form headed Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance. Under  this heading it says We recommend that you consider  our 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme. The Scheme provides you with insurance 
against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment to give you peace  of mind if you 
are, for unforeseeable reasons, unable  to work.  . This section has been signed and dated  
by Miss W. I can also see that Miss W has made other choices on the form, for example, she 
has chosen not to take out the building insurance cover.
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application - to decide whether Miss W was eligible for the 
PPI. This has been completed - it looks like during a meeting.  Details about Miss Ws health 
and questions to decide whether Miss W was eligible for the cover have been included  on 
the form. It has also been signed  and dated.  Overall  Miss W could have decided not to take 
out the cover and although I cant say what the representative told her during the meeting 
theres nothing on the forms  which makes  me think she was told she had to take out the 
cover to get the mortgage or that she had to have it. Being told it was a good  idea is not the 
same thing as being told she had to have it. I think she would have known what  the PPI 
Ref: DRN79660882would cover her for and I think all in all she was given  a choice and she chose to take out the 
PPI knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it.
Halifax has told us that it recommended  the policy. I think thats right looking at the 
paperwork. And as a recommended  sale this put more responsibility  on Halifax  for how it 
sold the policy. It had to take reasonable steps  to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Miss W. It also had to give Miss W enough clear  information  so she could decide  for herself  
whether or not she wanted to take it out.
Looking at Miss Ws circumstances and the terms and conditions of the policy I cant say the 
policy was unsuitable.
I can see Miss W feels strongly  that the PPI wasnt right for her as she had six months  full 
sick pay followed by six months  half pay from her employer. Miss W has also told us about 
redundancy pay she would be entitled  to, shares  she owned  and rainy  day money 
available. Ive thought about  this carefully but Ive also thought that this PPI covered  her 
mortgage repayments. If Miss W couldnt work  the PPI would have paid out for up to 24 
months - so it would have  lasted for longer  than Miss Ws sick pay and would  have paid out 
on top of any sick pay she got. So I think the PPI was suitable  and could  have been  useful  if 
things went wrong. It would also have left any redundancy  pay for other important living  
expenses if Miss W lost her job. And although  Miss W had some other assets the value of 
these could change  and might not always be so readily accessible as and when  needed. So 
I dont think that made the PPI unsuitable  for her. And her savings could have been left intact  
or also been used  if shed  needed  them to meet important expenses. The consequence of 
not being able to meet the mortgage repayments is serious. Overall I think  the policy was 
suitable for Miss W and would have been useful  if she fell into difficulty.
It looks like the cost was comparable with other similar policies sold at the time and was 
reasonable for the benefit it gave. And I can see Miss W was eligible for the PPI and as she 
was working and in good  health I dont think shed  have been affected  by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions set out in the policies terms and conditions.
Halifax also had to give clear information  so that Miss W could decide whether or not she 
wanted to take out the policy.  Miss W says that it cant  be presumed what  was said to her at 
the time.  I accept that I dont know what was said to her during the meeting and what 
information was given to her. I can see the initial cost and benefit of the policy was set out on 
the PPI application form. A note at the bottom  of this section on the form stated  that if your 
monthly mortgage payment changes prior to the completion of your mortgage this may affect 
the monthly premium  payable. So I think  Miss W would  have  understood that there was cost 
to the policy. But it could have been that Halifax didnt give all the information it needed to 
give as clearly as it should have done. But thats  not enough to uphold  this complaint.
I next need to think about whether Miss W would have changed her mind if shed been given 
better or clearer information.  I cant say she would have done. Ive explained why I think  she 
chose the PPI and for much the same reasons Ive given as to why I think the policy was 
suitable for her I still think Miss W would have bought the PPI even if she had better  
information.
So I dont  think Miss W lost out financially and I dont uphold  this complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss W.
Ref: DRN79660883my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7966088