K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Watford Insurance Company Europe  Limited didnt properly investigate  an 
accident that led to a claim on her motor insurance  policy. She says it provided poor service  
to her in general.
background
Miss B says that before  entering a roundabout  she checked that it was safe to do so. But 
when she was partway through crossing  it, another car coming from the right hit her car. 
Three independent witnesses told Watford they thought Miss B was on the roundabout first 
and that the other driver was speeding.  Watford said its speed  couldnt be proved.  Watford  
also said the other car was there to be seen before Miss B started  to move across the 
roundabout, as the witnesses all saw it. Miss B said she saw it too, but she thought it was far 
enough away at the time to allow her to cross  safely. 
Miss B said Watford didnt keep her informed about  what was happening  with the claim. She 
said it made the liability decision without contacting a fourth witness and before getting 
written statements from all three witnesses it had spoken to. She said it didnt send the 
statements to her as promised. And she said an advisor she was speaking to put her on 
speakerphone, to share her distress  about  Watfords decision with others. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Bs complaint and concluded that Watford  had acted 
reasonably. She thought it had looked at all the evidence before deciding that the prospects 
of defending the other drivers claim in court were poor. She said it had considered what  the 
three witnesses said before making its decision. In her view it made no difference that 
Watford didnt have  their written statements at the time. She didnt think  the call recording 
showed that Miss B had been put on speakerphone. And she didnt think Watford had taken 
too long to make a decision  or to deal with Miss Bs complaint. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint  was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and I dont think it should be upheld. 
Under the policy, Watford has the right to decide  how to settle  any claim as it thinks fit. If it 
thinks it doesnt have  a reasonable prospect of defending a claim in court, we usually think  
its fair for it to settle the matter. We only interfere if we think an insurer  hasnt acted 
reasonably in making its decision, after fully considering all the evidence.  
I think it was reasonable  enough for Watford to say that speed cant  be proved unless its 
recorded. But two of the witnesses said in their statements  that Miss B was already on the 
roundabout when the other driver  entered it. They thought  she had right of way when the 
collision took place.  Their  statements also reflect their view that the other  driver  didnt slow 
down before she entered the roundabout. But I dont think Watford was wrong to think  that 
cant be proved  and the other  driver had right of way over Miss B in joining the roundabout.   
One of the witnesses said in her written statement that the other car was at a pedestrian  
crossing 20 metres away when Miss B drove onto the roundabout.  Miss B says the crossing  
is further away than that. From the images Ive seen, it appears  that the distance between  
the crossing and the roundabout is at least 20 metres. Miss B told Watford  that she didnt 
Ref: DRN78503572think most drivers  would wait if a car was so far away. I think that may be right, but Watford 
didnt think there was firm evidence of where  the other car was at that point. And Miss B 
would have had to judge the cars distance  and speed correctly before moving off. 
The major damage to Miss Bs car was to the drivers door, with some  damage to the front 
wing. So she hadnt got very far across the roundabout when the collision took place. In the 
very brief statement from the other insurer, it said the other  driver  was proceeding correctly 
on the roundabout when Miss B failed to give way and collided with her car. Miss B pointed   
out to Watford  that the damage  to the cars shows the other car was driven into her car. I 
havent seen anything to show that Watford queried the other  drivers  account, despite at 
least part of it clearly  being wrong.   I can see why Miss B was frustrated by that omission. 
I think its clear  why Watford initially thought Miss B was wholly at fault for the accident. She 
said shed entered  a roundabout and that her car was hit by a car coming from her right. She 
was required to give way to traffic on her right, regardless  of their speed.  So the basic  facts  
would have made it hard for Watford to defend the other drivers  claim.  The witnesses later 
said the other driver  didnt slow down. Based on their evidence, Miss Bs car was on the 
roundabout first. All drivers (even if they have right of way)  have a duty to slow down or stop 
in order to avoid  or limit any collision  with another car if possible.  But Watford had to weigh 
up all the circumstances  before making a decision.
I can see why Miss B was upset  when Watford decided to settle the claim,  especially given  
the witness evidence.  But I can also see why Watford thought  thered be problems in 
defending it. It thought  the other drivers  speed  (and her alleged failure to slow down) 
couldnt be proved.  Neither could the distance  of her car from the roundabout when Miss Bs 
car entered  it. Miss B had stopped at the give way line  which the photos  Ive seen show 
was set back from the roundabout. One of the witnesses said Miss B moved  slowly across  
the roundabout. That was to be expected, but Miss B had some distance  to cover before she 
was out of the path of traffic coming  from her right. Watford  noted that the witnesses thought 
the other car was approaching quickly, so that must  also have been  obvious to Miss B. I 
think it was reasonable  for Watford to conclude that it wouldnt be able to defend the 
argument that Miss B misjudged the speed and distance of a car that had right of way, plus 
the time it would take her to clear the roundabout.  
In my opinion, the other drivers account  of Miss Bs car colliding with hers is something 
Watford could have  challenged, as theres  no doubt  that the other car hit Miss Bs car. But 
the other drivers view that Miss B entered the roundabout too late for her to avoid a collision 
would have remained. I think thats  partly  borne out by the fact that the damage  is nearer  to 
the front of her car than to its rear, as Watford noted. And although  I can see why Miss B 
says the other driver should have braked and stopped when she saw Miss Bs car, she must 
have braked at some  point, or the damage  would have been  even worse.   
I dont think this claim was as straightforward  as a standard roundabout collision claim, and 
I can see why Miss B is unhappy with Watfords decision. But it seems that some of its 
senior advisors reviewed  the case, which I think was a reasonable way of dealing  with it. It 
wouldnt have been in Watfords interests to settle unless it thought  there was no reasonable 
option, as it then had to pay all the other  drivers costs. But it had to consider the prospects 
of success in court, even  if it only argued  for split liability. Its decision  left Miss B in a very 
difficult position. As she didnt have comprehensive cover, she was faced with having to 
repair the car herself, and pay any other  costs.  I sympathise with the position  she found 
herself in, but I cant say it was unreasonable for Watford to settle  the claim.  
Ref: DRN78503573Miss B isnt happy  with Watfords general service.  It didnt contact a potential  witness  and 
didnt get a written  statement from the third witness. I can see why she was concerned by 
that, but dont  think she can show that it made  a difference to the outcome. I think had other 
written statements been available they are likely  to have  provided similar evidence to that 
already with Watford. The issues it identified in defending the claim would have remained.   
Theres a note on Watfords file that shows it thought Miss B was right to say it should  have 
contacted her before settling the claim.  I agree that it was poor service for it not to do so, 
especially in a case like this, where  there was evidence supporting Miss Bs claim. Miss B 
had to spend time chasing for updates,  and it seems some of her emails werent answered.  
That must have been  very frustrating for her - but as the decision was made  within four 
weeks, the inconvenience on her part was for a relatively short  period. I think  Watford  should  
have sent her copies  of the witness statements, as promised. But I dont agree that it took 
too long to deal with the claim or with Miss Bs complaint. Ive listened to the call during  
which Miss B thinks she was put on speakerphone, but I couldnt  hear anything  to support 
her view on that issue. Overall, although  I think Watfords service  could have been better, I 
dont think it was such that compensation for it should be paid.
I know Miss B will be disappointed with my decision.  I think  its clear why she believes she 
wasnt to blame (or wasnt wholly at fault) for the collision. In my opinion Watford  could  have 
explained its stance  more fully to Miss B at an early stage, especially given the witness  
evidence in support  of her account. But as I cant say that Watford acted unreasonably in 
deciding to settle the claim, I cant uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept  or reject my decision 
before 29 August 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7850357