K820x#14complaint
Ms R says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms R took out a PPI policy with a loan in 2002. She paid a monthly  amount  for the policy.
I sent Ms R and Santander my provisional  decision  on 8 March  2019 explaining why I wasnt  
intending to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I said that before I made  my final decision Id look at 
any more comments and evidence that I got by 8 April 2019.
Ms R and Santander didnt send me any more comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Rs complaint because:
Santander has sent us a sample application  form, which  I accept as reliable and most 
likely representative of the paperwork completed at the time.  This has a separate  section 
for PPI, and presents two clear options  to say yes or no to the PPI. So I think  the 
paperwork wouldve presented the PPI as optional. And I havent  seen  enough other 
evidence to persuade me Santander didnt  otherwise  present the PPI as optional. So 
overall I think  its most likely that Santander  made  Ms R aware  that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
Ms R has said she was pressured  into taking out the PPI because,  she says, she was 
told that shed  be refused  the loan if she didnt take out the PPI. Again, I accept this 
mightve happened,  but I havent  seen enough  evidence  to say it most likely happened.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms R, and it seems to have  been  right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.  Ms R has said she just doesnt go 
sick and that her family and friends couldve  helped  if need be. But the policy was 
designed to provide  protection against  the unexpected; circumstances can change; and I 
dont think Ms R would  really have wanted to rely on family and friends  to help meet  
financial commitments. And the policy couldve paid out on top of and for longer than any 
sick pay entitlement Ms R had, at what couldve been a difficult  time. So I dont think  I can 
say it was wrong of Santander to recommend the cover.
The cost of the policy was shown.  So I think  Ms R wouldve understood how much she 
would need to pay for it.
Ref: DRN77521102Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Ms R 
doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those  things.
Ive taken into account Ms Rs comments.  But for the reasons explained above, these points 
dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7752110