K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Black Horse  Limited (BHL) mis-sold him an insurance policy.  Mr S took out a 
loan in 2009 and bought insurance  alongside this loan. He has complained about the 
insurance only.
background 
Mr S bought a policy in 2009 at the same time as taking out a loan. He chose to take the life 
insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). These  elements  repaid whatever  was remaining on 
the loan, less any arrears,  if Mr S became critically ill or died. He did not select  the cover for 
accident, sickness or unemployment which is what we would normally refer to as payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld. Mr S disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says he was told he had to take one insurance product or he couldnt have the loan. 
BHL says it wouldve  made the optional nature of the policy  clear  and let Mr S choose if he 
wanted to take it. Where  there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is 
more likely based on the evidence available which includes the documents as well as Mr Ss 
testimony. So Ive thought  carefully about what Mr S has said,  and looked  at the documents  
submitted. 
Ive had a look at Mr Ss loan agreement;  in it there  was a separate  section to add insurance 
and a subheading starting with OPTIONAL. Mr S has signed this section confirming he 
wanted to take out insurance  in addition to signing a separate section for the loan itself. This 
section also specified  the level of cover  selected which  was life and CIC. This also set out 
the monthly cost and total cost of the policy. 
Ive also had a look at a demands  and needs statement prepared by BHL.  BHL 
recommended Mr S take cover for life, CIC and accident, sickness  and unemployment  
(ASU). But the document says Mr S did not agree with the recommendation as he only 
chose to take life and CIC. So Mr S appears to have exercised a degree of consideration 
and choice. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely BHL made it clear that Mr S didnt have  
to take out the insurance and that he chose to take the life and CIC only.  
As explained above, Mr S says he didnt want insurance but BHLs  adviser  told him he had 
to take an insurance  product. But other than saying this, he hasnt given me much more 
detail about what  led him to take the insurance  if he didnt want  it, given the documents  set it 
out as optional. The difference between a business  placing unfair  pressure on a customer  
and encouraging them to take a policy can be subjective. So Id need persuasive evidence  to 
Ref: DRN73040882uphold a complaint on this basis. But I havent heard enough to make  me think  BHL put 
pressure on Mr S to take the policy.
BHL recommended  the policy  to Mr S so it had to check  that the insurance was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover. And he seems  to have had a need for the cover.   
Mr S says he had good employee benefits  provided  by his employer if he was off work  
because of accident or sickness.  But he appears to have thought about this and chosen  not 
to take this cover. 
Mr S has also provided evidence that he had a life insurance policy  for £100,000 that was in 
place in 2009 when he took the life insurance through BHL. But he has added that the 
original policy was taken  out to cover  his mortgage,  which Mr S has confirmed  was still in 
place in 2009. Mr S has also said he didnt want to leave his family  with debt. 
Although Mr S was aware he had this existing life policy, his demands  and needs show that 
he wanted his agreement with BHL to be repaid if he was diagnosed with a critical illness or 
was to lose his life. Mr S has signed  the demands  and needs  to confirm his answers. 
Overall, I think having his BHL loan repaid  should he have  died during the term of the loan 
wouldve been beneficial  for his estate,  meaning  his family would not have  had to worry 
about this agreement. So I dont  think having  the original life insurance  policy  made this 
policy unsuitable. And CIC is not the same type of insurance as life insurance. So I think the 
cover was right for him. 
Its possible the information BHL gave Mr S about  the insurance wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the policy  would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BHL doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But BHL has already  offered to give Mr S back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7304088