K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that National  Savings  and Investments cannot  find her account  and money.
background
Ms T says she opened a savings account with NS&I some years ago although she cant now 
remember what account and exactly when. She says she initially deposit £5,000 into it. And 
NS&I didnt write to her about the account  for over 10 years. Shes recently  corresponded  
with it about the account and has had to send  in information repeatedly.  This has been 
extremely stressful and shes unhappy  with the way shes  been  dealt  with. She also says 
shes lost money and the use of an annual ISA allowance as result. She wants her money 
and compensation.
NS&I said in its final response that Ms T contacted its help desk  asking to withdraw  her 
Index Link Saving Certificate which shed opened  ten years ago. She said she didnt have 
any details of it as shed moved  house. The advisor  said the only thing that could be done 
was for her to send  in a tracing form. NS&I received it but unfortunately this form couldnt 
later be located. And it also found  Ms T had been  told to submit  the incorrect  form. It also 
noted her details hadnt been updated which limited  what it could discuss with her. NS&I said 
itd quickly sent her Ms T the correct  form but couldnt make a repayment  to her until it had it 
back. It said it would compensate  Ms T for any loss of interest  on the amount withdrawn and 
itd arranged a £50 payment as an apology.
NS&I later said it was up to customers to notify it of any changes in address. Itd previously 
written to Ms T at her registered  address which hadnt been changed until she contacted it in 
February 2019. It had also now repaid Ms Ts investment after receiving the correct form. 
And its also paid her a further £41.69 compensation for lost interest.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said NS&I  wouldve needed a 
trace form when Ms T wanted  to take money from her account  as she hadnt details of it. It 
was Ms Ts responsibility to update her address when  she moved. And as she hadnt  done 
so, this proved  an obstacle to her clearing  security and accessing  her account. NS&I  have  
now paid Ms T her money, some interest on it and £50 for the confusion  and delay.  This is 
all in line with our guidelines and he cannot ask it to do anything  more.
Ms T remains  unhappy. In summary  she repeats how unhappy  she is with the way NS&I  has 
dealt with her and considers its unprofessional.  She says she didnt hear from NS&I for 
many years and repeats that the delay in getting  her money has caused her financial loss 
and inconvenience.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T has provided  a very detailed narrative  and extensive submissions to support her 
complaint. Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably 
less detail. And they focus on what I think are the main issues.
Ms T complains NS&I  didnt contact her over a ten year period. But NS&I  says it wrote to her 
at her last recorded address and the initial investment was reinvested as it didnt hear back  
from her.
Ref: DRN77874452As NS&I says it was Ms Ts responsibility to tell it if she moved address. But it doesnt 
appear she did so until she contacted  it in February  2019. Ms T says she moved house twice 
since taking out the investment but I dont think she told NS&I of her new addresses.  And 
even though she says she relied  on a redirection service and the co-operation  of new 
occupiers, it would seem likely thats why she didnt get the post NS&I  says it sent her.
When Ms T contacted NS&I to take out some of her money she had very little information 
about her account.  And it was therefore reasonable for NS&I  to ask her to complete a trace  
form before  it paid out any money to her. 
Its unfortunate that Ms T was sent the incorrect form and had to complete another one. And 
that the first form she sent in went astray after NS& I received it. Although this did slightly  
delay her receiving her money I think NS&I sent it out on the same day it received the 
correct completed form. Its also paid her some  interest at the rate of 8%for any interest she 
mightve lost during  this short period until she received her money.  I think thats fair.
NS&I couldve dealt  with some things better than it did and its paid Ms T £50 compensation 
for what happened and the inconvenience caused. Taking everything into account, including 
the level of awards  we make, I think  thats  fair. 
Overall, although I recognise  Ms Ts strength of feeling and frustration,  I think NS&I has 
acted and compensated Ms T fairly. And I dont think I can reasonably require NS&I to now 
do anything more. I dont  see any compelling  reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7787445