K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 on a 
mortgage Miss C had since 2006. Miss C says Quilter Mortgage  Planning  Limited (Quilter) 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Neither Quilter nor Miss C has provided any documents from the time of sale. Due to the 
time thats  passed  since the PPI was sold I dont think this is unreasonable,  these events 
happened over 11 years ago. So Ive looked  at all the submissions to find what I think  is 
most likely to have happened in this case.
Miss C recalls agreeing  to the PPI. I think it most  likely that Miss C would  have had to agree 
to the cover  to get it, and she would have  known she had a choice about  so doing. I say that 
because Miss C already  had the mortgage since 2006, so she couldnt have thought she had 
to take the PPI to get the credit. 
Miss C told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective  area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that Miss C only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
So having  taken everything in to account, I think Quilter most likely made it clear that Miss C 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this now many years  later. 
Quilter recommended the PPI to Miss C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  from or limits  to the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. I understand that Miss C told us she had some  sick 
pay but hasnt  been able to tell us what those arrangements amounted to. And Miss C told 
us she had no other means  she could rely on if she was too ill to work. But this policy  could 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay that Miss C may have had and for up to 12 months  
if she was too ill to work, or if she lost her job. It also looks like the policy was affordable.  So 
I think the policy could  have been useful  to her. 
Its possible the information Quilter gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN78832102my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Quilter Mortgage Planning 
Limited.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7883210