K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that HSBC UK Bank plc incorrectly recorded adverse information against his 
name with one of the UKs  fraud alert services  and this has caused  him a number of 
difficulties.
background
Mr Q says that he applied  for an account  online in 2017. A few weeks later a cheque for just 
under £10,000 was paid into his account.  HSBC  says that it noticed that the cheque  was 
fraudulent so didnt  process it and blocked  Mr Qs account.
Five days later Mr Q told HSBC that he had lost his card. He wasnt  sure when it went  
missing. He says HSBC then told him that it had blocked his account  because his card had 
been used to pay in the cheque. Mr Q denies  that he paid in the cheque.
Mr Q has now found out that HSBC  placed a marker  against his name with CIFAS, one of 
the UKs  fraud  prevention  databases. He says this is stopping  him from opening  another  
account or getting any finance. Hed like it removed.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She was satisfied  that the 
cheque was fraudulent and that HSBC had done  enough to show that it hadnt made a 
mistake in recording the adverse marker against Mr Qs name.
Mr Q responded to say, in summary, that he didnt agree that HSBC had enough evidence to 
show that he had been knowingly involved in the fraud. He didnt know exactly when he lost 
his card and thinks its possible it was before someone tried to pay the cheque into his 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the cheque that someone  attempted to pay into Mr Qs account was 
fraudulent. But before placing  a fraud  related marker  against Mr Qs name, HSBC  needed  to 
have a reasonable belief  that criminal charges could be brought  against him as a result of 
the activity. A suspicion or concern isnt enough.  So Ive looked at whether HSBC  was fair to 
apply the marker,  based on the evidence it had and the investigation it carried out, and what 
the rules say about applying such markers.
Mr Q opened a bank  account and an ISA savings account online at the end of July 2017. 
HSBC sent a debit card for the bank account and a personal identification number (PIN) 
separately to his registered address.  Two weeks later Mr Q set up online banking (OLB) and 
HSBC sent a secure key to him. Mr Q also used his mobile to make bill payments through 
telephone banking.
Im satisfied that Mr Q received his card, his PIN and his secure key. He used the card at an 
ATM to withdraw cash and then again  for some small expenses at local retailers. He also 
made a transfer  from his account to his ISA account through  OLB. 
Ref: DRN73006302Mr Q reported his card as lost five days after it was used to pay in the cheque in question.  
He says that he doesnt know when  it went missing. He thinks it likely  that it went  missing 
before 16 August (the date the cheque  was paid in) but he didnt report it immediately 
because the account didnt have  very much  money  in it and he couldnt see anything 
suspicious happening  when  he checked the account through OLB. He only reported the card 
as lost once he was sure he couldnt  find it.
On 15 August (the day before the fraudulent activity)  Mr Qs card was used to pay £20 in 
cash into his account through a machine at a HSBC  branch some distance away  from where 
Mr Q lived. At the time the cash was paid in there  was very little money  in Mr Qs account.
If Mr Q had lost his card before 16 August or it was taken  by an unknown third party, as he 
now suspects, then this means the cash was paid in by this third party. If Mr Q didnt do this 
himself, then I think Mr Q must have known the person who did. I say this because Mr Q 
used this money the same day to make  two payments through  telephone banking,  using the 
same mobile phone he used to report the card lost. Theres enough  evidence  to show that 
Mr Q passed the relevant  telephone banking security checks.
On 16 August someone used Mr Qs card to pay the cheque into his account. I understand 
that Mr Q was originally told that the cheque had been paid in at a location some  distance 
from his home (where the cash was paid in). For the avoidance of doubt, the cheque  was 
paid in at Mr Qs local branch. The paying  in slip was made  out in the name of Mr Q and the 
sort code  and account number given were for his ISA account  and not his bank account.  
If the cheque  was paid in without Mr Qs knowledge then I think, not only would the unknown 
third party have been in possession of Mr Qs debit  card but they would also have had to 
have full account details of his ISA as well. This information couldnt  have been found from 
Mr Qs card because  it related to his bank account,  which had a totally different sort code 
and account number.
It seems  unlikely  that an unknown third party  would  try to pay a cheque into Mr Qs ISA 
account when  they would  have no means of accessing the money. The debit  card was for 
Mr Qs bank account. The only way to access the money would  have been  through  OLB, the 
mobile app or telephone banking. 
Mr Q has said that he lived with a number of other people  and its possible that one of them 
could have intercepted his mail. But Im satisfied  Mr Q received his PIN and secure key. He 
says that it might have  been possible for someone to have found  out his OLB details when 
they were sent to him. Even if Mr Qs OLB information had been  compromised  in this way, 
Mr Q still had the secure key, which he hadnt  reported as lost or stolen. And Mr Q would 
have entered  his own memorable information  when he registered for OLB. I dont think  an 
unknown party could  have  guessed  this.
So Im not persuaded by Mr Qs argument.  Even if someone had taken or found Mr Qs card 
that there  still isnt any plausible explanation of how they would  be able to obtain his security 
details, which included  personal information  set by Mr Q himself, to allow them  to access the 
ISA account.
Taking everything into account,  if Mr Q didnt  pay the cheque  into his account himself then I 
think he allowed someone else to do so.
Ref: DRN73006303HSBC says that it applied the CIFAS  marker because Mr Q received fraudulent funds into 
his account. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried  out checks of sufficient 
depth to meet the standard of proof  set by CIFAS.  This essentially  means  that HSBC needs  
to have enough information  to make a formal  report  to the police. And that any filing should 
be for cases where there  are reasonable grounds to believe  fraud  or financial crime has 
been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Based on the evidence  it had, and the investigation it carried out, I find that HSBC  has met 
the burden of proof required by CIFAS to add the marker. I appreciate  that this will be a 
great disappointment  to Mr Q as the marker is causing him difficulty now and in the future.  
But given what Ive said above, I dont think HSBC has treated him unfairly  by recording the 
CIFAS marker.  So Im not going  to ask it to remove it.
I appreciate that Mr Q thinks that CCTV would be helpful to show  that he didnt try to pay in 
the cheque. I understand he is frustrated  that the footage isnt available.  I dont  think CCTV 
evidence, even if it were available, would help resolve whether the person making these 
payments was acting  with Mr Qs knowledge and authority or not. So I dont  think  it would 
have persuaded  me to change my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7300630