K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Canada  Life Limited has turned down his claim for critical illness  benefit  
under a group critical illness policy.
background
In January 2016, Mr M became  part of his employers group critical illness policy. And, in 
December 2016,  he sadly experienced a stroke. 
In 2018, Mr M made a claim on the policy. Canada Life declined this saying  it excludes  
certain illnesses if a member has suffered from specific  related conditions  before joining the 
scheme. It said that in Mr Ms case  the condition was diabetes mellitus,  which  he was 
diagnosed with in 2001. And that as two continuous years hadnt  passed since he last 
received treatment and advice  for it, his stroke claim wasnt  covered. 
Mr M appealed, but Canada  Life maintained its decision. Both parties have  shared a lot of 
correspondence about this, which Ive summarised  below. 
Mr M thinks Canada  Lifes  related condition definition means it needs  to show  a link between  
his diabetes mellitus  and his stroke for the exclusion to apply. He said case law supports that 
his diabetes must stand  out as a strong contributing factor to his stroke,  but no cause was 
found and theres  no evidence  these  were linked. Mr M also said only poorly managed  
diabetes increases the risk of a stroke, when  his is well managed.  
Mr M said Canada Lifes  approach ignores the causative language the Association  of British 
Insurers (ABI)  intended in its minimum standards,  making it less generous.  And that as 
diabetes is a related  condition  for several of the policies core illnesses, if a link isnt needed it 
means Canada  Life could exclude a claim for an unrelated  accident  due to the customer 
having diabetes. 
Canada Life said that with group policies it doesnt assess individual risks through  an 
application process, so its common practice to manage these through  the exclusion of 
related or associated  conditions. It said while this type of exclusion limits  the scope of the 
policy, its entitled to determine the risks its willing to accept. And that it wouldnt be 
reasonable for it to accept risks for events that have happened or are more likely to occur in 
the future,  which includes cardiovascular  risks for individuals with a history of diabetes.
Canada Life said only one of the two limbs to the related  condition  definition needs  to be 
met. And that the first limb only requires a direct  or indirect association  between the 
condition and illness claimed for, without referring  to Mr Ms individual  circumstances.  It said 
diabetes mellitus is widely accepted as associated  with an increased risk of a stroke.  And 
Canada Life obtained  their own consultant neurologists opinion, who said that while it isnt 
usually possible to say diabetes was the cause of a stroke, it significantly increases the risk 
of having one. Their consultant also said it often isnt possible to eliminate this as a factor in 
a stroke  of unknown  cause. And that while risk factors can be significantly reduced,  they 
dont think these can ever be eliminated. 
Canada Life said this association is enough and Mr Ms risk profile was increased compared  
to another policyholder without diabetes, however well controlled his was. And it wouldnt 
have covered him for critical  illness if he had applied for individual  cover  with it in 2016,  with 
his history of diabetes.  
Ref: DRN72797492Canada Life also said the facts of the case law Mr M cited  is materially different to his. And 
that the exclusion in the main piece of case law hes referred to required  reference to the 
facts to establish what caused or was related directly or indirectly to the insolvency. It said 
Mr Ms case doesnt require this, as the direct or indirect association between  a stroke and 
diabetes is predetermined based  on statistics and generic data.  
However, Mr M said the exclusion is almost identical to Canada  Lifes and that the law 
doesnt accept  the chance of someone  with diabetes having a stroke as a causative  link. He 
said an association requires a more immediate and stronger connection than this. And that 
our service  generally says a claim should be paid where it arises from an unrelated  
condition, which his stroke is akin to, given theres  no known cause for it. Mr M also referred  
to another insurers exclusion  to say that Canada Lifes doesnt clearly achieve  its intention.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She said that, as group policies arent 
medically underwritten,  its usual for the insurer to exclude certain things. She said the policy  
wording means Canada Life doesnt need to show that Mr Ms diabetes was related to his 
stroke. And as his diabetes was present before he was included in the policy and he 
received treatment and advice  for it in the last two years,  Canada  Life was entitled to rely on 
the exclusion. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He says the exclusion should be read as a whole and that Canada Life 
has the burden of showing it applies. He also says that as Canada Lifes accepted the 
exclusion contains causation language,  the issue is whether causation  is shown based on 
statistical chance or whether a link in his circumstances  is needed. 
So the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it as 
I think Canada Lifes approach is fair and reasonable, for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
Mr Ms made  a number of points  and while Ive thought about them all, I wont  address each 
individually. Instead, Ive focused  on the issues I think  are material in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome to his complaint. 
The illnesses Mr Ms covered for are listed in the group policy conditions that applied from 
2015. These include a stroke, which is defined in a table in Section 2 under What  is 
Covered. Next to the definition, theres  a heading which  says,  Related conditions which will 
be considered  in the application of the exclusion shown in Section  4.1.2 . And one of the 
conditions listed below  this is diabetes mellitus.
Section 4.1.2 of the policy under the heading Related conditions  says:
No benefit will be payable  for an insured illness in respect of which  any related  condition 
(see tables in Section 2 - What is covered and Section 3 - Optional  additional cover), 
was present at any time prior to
 the insured person or childs inclusion in this Policy, or
Ref: DRN72797493 the insured person or childs inclusion in a previous group critical illness policy  arranged  
by you or any other employer  in connection  with the members employment, if earlier,  or
 the date of inclusion of the insured illness in the Policy, if later,  or
 the date of any increase in benefit  which has been selected by the member or you 
unless at least two consecutive years have elapsed  since  the insured  person or child last
 had symptoms of, or
 received treatment or advice in respect  of
such related condition
And a related  condition is defined in the policy  definitions section as:
a [my emphasis] medical condition described  in Section 2 - What  is covered and Section  
3  Optional  additional cover which is either directly or indirectly associated with, or [my 
emphasis] is likely to have led to the occurrence  of an [my emphasis] insured illness.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ms diabetes mellitus was present before his inclusion in the policy. 
Or that when he made his claim two continuous years hadnt  passed since he had last 
received treatment and advice  for it, so I havent  considered this any further.
Mr M feels that Canada Lifes related condition definition  requires  a link between diabetes  
mellitus and a stroke  in his circumstances though. But, as group policies like this arent 
underwritten, Mr M didnt  have to complete an application about  his circumstances for 
Canada Life to decide what it was willing to cover  him for before including  him in the policy. 
Instead its usual  for an insurer  to use the policy wording to exclude certain things from the 
outset, including  related conditions. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for Canada  Life to do this, as long as its policy wording  is 
clear enough. And, in that case,  while there  may not be medical evidence of a link in Mr Ms 
circumstances, I dont  think  Canada  Life needs  to show there is. 
Its not in dispute  that Canada Lifes related condition  definition has two limbs, due to the or 
(see my emphasis), and I think that only one needs to be met. Its relied on the first limb, 
which requires an association, whether directly or indirectly, between a medical condition  
described in Section 2 and an insured illness. 
The definition doesnt say an association is needed  between the medical condition  and the 
illness of the insured.  It only requires an association between a described medical condition 
and an insured illness (see my emphasis). Diabetes mellitus,  which  Mr M has, is a medical  
condition described  in section two, and stroke is an insured illness,  which  hes claiming for. 
And Canada  Lifes  shown me there  is a known  association between  the two, also providing 
evidence from a specialist  in neurology, who said diabetes mellitus leads to the risk of a 
stroke and that those risk factors  cant ever be eliminated, regardless of how well controlled 
the diabetes mellitus is. 
The very fact that a stroke is the illness being  claimed for when a history  of diabetes  mellitus 
exists, and that theres a known association between the two, means diabetes is treated as a 
related condition for the purposes  of the definition. I think  the policy wording is clear enough 
on this, and I dont  think Canada Lifes required to do more, by showing a link between  them  
in Mr Ms particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN72797494In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the case law Mr Ms referred  to, but I need  
to be clear that my remit is fair and reasonable and not the standard of a court. And while  
the case law discusses  insurance principles; the circumstances in which they do so are very 
different to Mr Ms  none relate to a group critical illness policy.   
Ive also considered the purpose of Canada  Lifes  exclusion. And read it in the context  of the 
policy, in a way thats consistent  with its nature and purpose. Group policies like this are 
designed to provide cover on pre-agreed terms, on a wider scale  and often at a cheaper rate 
than individually  underwritten  policies. And related condition exclusions are used to reflect 
the risks an insurer isnt willing to accept, and which its unlikely to have accepted if the 
policy had been  underwritten.
Canada Lifes shown  me that the risk which led it to treat diabetes  and stroke  as related  is 
one it wouldnt have  covered Mr M for if he had taken an individual  policy  with it. So, its not 
treating him any differently than if it had asked him underwriting questions   either way his 
claim wouldnt have been covered.  And I think Canada Lifes  acting in line with the purpose  
of the policy  and exclusion here.  
In summary,  I think Canada Lifes related condition definition and exclusion is clear. I dont 
think its done anything  wrong by treating Mr M as having a related condition. And I think 
allowing it to rely on the exclusion to decline his claim is the fair and reasonable outcome  to 
Mr Ms complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279749