K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) provided poor service when he called to 
cancel a payment  and made him feel unimportant by the way it spoke  to him. Mr N wants  
between £500-£700 compensation for this.
background
In late 2015 Mr N authorised a payment  to an airline. He then noticed it showed on his 
account as a pending payment for a different  slightly higher  amount.
Mr N contacted Lloyds,  saying he wanted to cancel the payment. Lloyds said it couldnt  do 
anything about  the payment until it showed  on his account, but it would try to help him then.
The payment went  through.  When Lloyds looked  at it for Mr N, it initially  began a process  
called chargeback.  For clarity  chargeback  is a system governed by rules set out by the 
owner of the card scheme  Mr N used. It allows, under certain circumstances, a bank to re-
credit a customers account and debit the money  from the recipients  account. The recipient 
then has a certain period of time to make a case as to why it should receive the money. 
Depending on the arguments made by either side the money either stays with the customer 
or is re-debited and paid to the recipient. 
Lloyds refunded the difference  between the two amounts  £1.61. And it refunded  about £7 
of foreign transaction fees too.
Mr N complained about three years later, saying hed received poor service and been made 
to feel insignificant.
Lloyds explained  that a pending payment was one that was authorised by Mr N  and it 
couldnt have  cancelled it. It said it had raised  a chargeback because Mr N had said the 
amount was wrong, but the system  only allowed it to ask for the return  of the difference  
between the two amounts. It refunded Mr N the difference anyway and as a gesture  of 
goodwill, some  fees.
Mr N thinks he should have had the whole amount (£201.61) back, so Lloyds has left him out 
of pocket. And he says his feelings  have been  hurt by the way Lloyds spoke  to him, 
especially when they referred to the airline as one of their biggest clients.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld.  She thought Lloyds had 
been fair when  it refunded the difference in the two amounts plus some  fees.  And she said 
without any call recordings from the time she couldnt establish  if Lloyds  had spoken  
dismissively to Mr N.
Mr N didnt agree and sent in some evidence to show that a conversation had taken place 
and that this should be interpreted in his favour.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75626902Having done so I find Ive reached  the same  conclusions as the investigator did, for much 
the same  reasons.
The general terms and conditions Lloyds shows  on its online banking  site for instance,  
explain that it cant stop a pending transaction  because its something  a customer  has 
authorised, even if the transaction  doesnt yet show on a statement. That's  been  Lloyds 
position for some time. So I think it acted in line with its own terms and conditions when it 
said it couldnt help Mr N until the payment went through.
I dont know why there was a small difference between the amount Mr N says he authorised 
and the amount paid. But a difference in amounts is a valid reason for a chargeback attempt.  
Ive checked the rules  for the chargeback scheme in question. They  say that chargeback  
cant be used for buyers remorse   so the scheme doesnt allow a bank to claim on a 
customers behalf simply because the customer changed their mind. Furthermore, the rules  
say that any attempted chargeback for a different  amount can only be for the actual 
difference in amounts  not the full amount. And there is also a lower  limit of $25 (£20 or so). 
So, even though Mr N had a valid reason for requesting a chargeback,  Lloyds attempt to use 
the chargeback  system wasnt going  to succeed because of the low value  of the amount in 
question - £1.61.
I think Lloyds wasted  its time attempting a chargeback for Mr N. But I cant  see it affected 
him, as it refunded  the £1.61 and about  £7 of fees straight away. Thats more than hed have 
got simply through the chargeback process if it succeeded (Ive explained above why it 
wouldnt).
I appreciate Mr N thinks he should  have got the whole £201.61 back,  but he had authorised 
£200 of this. I think if hed wanted to withdraw  from whatever arrangement  hed made with 
the airline hed have  to do that himself,  and ask for a refund. Lloyds could reasonably  have 
asked him to do that  instead  it seems  to me that Lloyds simply decided to help Mr N when 
he made contact by refunding the disputed  amount.  That seems fair to me. 
Mr N also says he was made to feel insignificant when he called Lloyds. To get a better idea 
of what happened  we asked Lloyds to look for any call recordings it might have from 2015.  It 
did that, using  Mr Ns phone number, and sent us the result  which was that it couldnt find 
anything. Mr N says Lloyds is deliberately withholding the recording(s), but I havent  seen  
anything that supports  this. Mr N sent us some  notes  that show he made a call, but I dont 
think thats ever been questioned. Its just unfortunate Lloyds cant find a recording.
I have thought about what Mr N says happened  during the call  which  was reference to the 
fact that the airline was a big customer of the bank. I understand that might have been 
upsetting for Mr N, but without being  able to listen to any calls, I cant  say the member of 
staff Mr N spoke  to was rude or unprofessional.  Im not going to ask Lloyds to do more than 
it has on this point.  To reach that view Ive taken into account that Lloyds did give Mr N a 
refund of the disputed amount and some fees,  so I cant say it didnt take his request 
seriously.
Overall I think  Lloyds  did enough to help Mr N when he called.
Ref: DRN75626903my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7562690