K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs W took out in 1999. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in-store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check  it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading  
so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
The policy excluded unemployment  claims unless  the customer  had been  in continuous 
employment for at least six months, with any gap in employment being  two weeks or less. 
But at the time of the sale, Mrs W had only just started her job in the last couple  of weeks, 
and there  was a gap of two months  between that and the end of her previous job. So she 
wouldnt have been considered to be in continuous employment under the policy  terms, and 
couldnt have  claimed if shed  lost her job in at least the next five months.
FICL questioned whether the gap really was two months, but Mrs W forwarded an email 
from the previous  employer which  confirmed her end date and what she was doing in the 
employment gap  which was the exact same  reason Mrs W gave  for the gap.
Given that Mrs W had only just started her job at the time of the sale,  there  wasnt any 
reasonable guarantee that shed still be there  in six months. But in the meantime,  shed be 
paying for a PPI policy that didnt protect her and that she couldnt  claim on if she lost her job 
in the foreseeable future.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mrs W clear information  about the unemployment  exclusions at 
the point of sale. If it had done, then I dont think Mrs W wouldve bought this policy. So 
I think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN77763152A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs W has already  received a 
refund of the commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off of what  it 
owes, so Mrs W does not get refunded the same  thing twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Financial Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776315