K822xComplaint
Miss J is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  (Red  Sands) hasnt
paid a claim she made under her pet insurance in full.
Background 
Miss Js dog was limping, and she took it to the vets. The vets carried out an initial 
consultation which included X-rays,  and then proceeded with further consultations and 
physiotherapy. After  several visits, Miss Js dog went on to have inpatient treatment.
Miss J submitted claim  forms to Red Sands.  They initially refused to pay the invoices  as they 
believed that the cause  of the condition was Miss Js dog being  overweight. However, Miss J 
was able to provide a report from the treating vet which  explained it wasnt  a weight related 
condition.
Red Sands  subsequently  paid for the initial consultations that had been  carried  out. But they 
classed the majority of treatment as complementary  treatment. And under Miss Js policy, 
this has a lower policy  limit, leaving part of the claim unpaid.
Miss J complained to Red Sands who maintained that most of the treatment  was 
complementary. However, they acknowledged the service provided couldve been  better  and 
apologised to Miss J. As Miss J was unhappy  with the outcome of her complaint, she 
approached this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He agreed that physiotherapy should fall within  
complementary treatment. But he said the rest of the treatment Miss Js dog received 
shouldnt be classed as complementary treatment as it wasnt  listed  specifically in the policy.  
He also said that Red Sands  should compensate Miss J £100  for the service she received.
Red Sands  disagreed with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view about the claim, I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision before I make  my final decision.  This allowed  both parties to comment 
on my thinking before  I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word  on the case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Service received
When Miss J first tried to make a claim in February  2018, the vets notes mentioned  
her dog was overweight.  And conditions as a result of this are excluded under  the 
policy. Therefore, Red Sands declined the claim on the basis they believed the 
exclusion applied.
Ref: DRN79063712It isnt in dispute that Red Sands werent clear in the reasoning they gave around a 
claim being declined  when a dog is overweight. They admit that they shouldve  
explained that whilst claims  for conditions  as a result of being overweight wouldnt be 
covered, other claims unconnected  to being overweight would be covered.
The notes provided  show that the treating vet called Red Sands to explain the 
condition wasnt weight  related, and Red Sands asked for written  evidence of this.
A further  claim was submitted in May 2018, but this wasnt considered  until early in 
July. Red Sands admits  that there were avoidable delays here and that they 
overlooked advice from the vet that it wasnt a weight related condition.  As they 
overlooked this and based the decision on the vets notes which indicated Miss Js 
dog was overweight, ultimately this claim was again declined,  incorrectly.
The vets provided  a further  letter  confirming  the condition wasnt as a result of Miss 
Js dog being  overweight. Red Sands reassessed the two claims already submitted 
and paid these.
Its clear and not in dispute that the service Miss J received from Red Sands couldve 
been better,  her policy cover wasnt explained,  and there were  delays  in the claim 
being handled. And the incorrect claim decision was made when evidence from the 
vets was overlooked.  Whilst  Red Sands has apologised  for this, in my view the 
compensation proposed by our investigator,  £100, is fair in the circumstances for the 
service Miss J received.
Claim settlement
Both invoices for initial consultation totalling  £329.89 and follow up Orthopaedic 
Consultation and Physiotherapy totalling  £605.34  were paid in full. This was paid in 
part under the annual  condition limit and in part under the complementary treatment 
inner limit.
When Miss J submitted another invoice and claim form for £1,664.65, Red Sands  
only paid £73.40. This is because they considered the invoice to be made up of 
complementary treatments, which has a limit of £500 in a policy  year. And of the 
previous invoices paid, £426.60  of the complementary treatment limit had already 
been used, leaving  only £73.40 left from the £500  limit.
Miss J disputes its complementary  treatment,  so I need to consider whether Red 
Sands acted reasonably in calling it this.
Complementary treatment is listed in the policy  as:
- Physiotherapy
- Hydrotherapy
- Chiropractic manipulation
- Osteopathy
- Acupuncture
- Homeopathic  or herbal  medicines
- Laser Therapy
Ref: DRN79063713Following the initial  vet consultations,  Miss Js dog went on to have an appointment 
invoiced as Consultation  1st orthopaedic. And this was paid under the higher annual 
condition policy limit. After this first consultation, Miss Js dog went  on to have seven 
further appointments which  were invoiced on each occasion as:
Date Quantity Item Amount Responsibility
(relevant date of 
appointment)38m Consultation Canine Orthopaedic  
per minute
117.80 Insurer
(same appointment  
as above)10m Physiotherapy by Vet  per 
minute 24.40 Insurer
And Red Sands has classed both of these as complementary treatment. Clearly  part 
of this is listed specifically  as physiotherapy, so fits in with the above  definition of 
complementary treatment. And of the physiotherapy appointments, directly before 
was a consultation. In my view this would be an intrinsically linked part of the 
physiotherapy appointment, and therefore its not unreasonable  for Red Sands to 
include this within the complementary treatment  and within the lower  annual limit 
for this.
Following these seven  appointments,  Miss Js dog then went  on to have  several 
visits for Orthopaedic In Patient  appointments. As it wasnt clear what this consisted 
of, Red Sands asked  the treating vet. They said the below treatments are included in 
this, but didnt say every  treatment would be carried out at each  appointment:
-Neurological/orthopaedic examinations throughout the day to assess 
changes in joint range  of motion,  muscle mass, tone and symmetry, 
neurological deficits etc
-Pain score evaluation by Vet, treatment prescribed  as needed
-Soft tissue stretches and massage to ease muscle tension  and pain
-Physiotherapy exercises (various exercises  performed during the day 
depending on which muscle groups  we are needing to target)
-Heat Therapy to help ease muscle tension/spasm
-Dry treadmilling for gait analysis and simultaneous thermal imaging
-Neuromotor gait training
Its clear that physiotherapy is included within this, and a number  of other similar  or 
related types of treatment, albeit to varying extents and using differing techniques. 
And the treating vet hasnt  itemised  exactly what they carried out specifically at each 
appointment.
But given the condition being treated, medical  history and physiotherapy sessions 
leading up to the Orthopaedic In Patient treatments, I dont think Red Sands has 
acted unreasonably by classing these  as complementary treatment and applying the 
lower limit. Consequently,  I think Red Sands has settled the claim fairly by only 
paying £73.40, as this is all that was left from the £500 limit.
Ref: DRN79063714On that basis, I said I was minded to uphold Miss Js complaint in part. Whilst I agreed the 
level of compensation  recommended  by the investigator was fair, I said that Red Sands 
didnt need to make any further claim payments.
The responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  responded accepting my provisional decision.
Miss J responded and didnt accept my provisional  decision. She provided  a statement from 
the treating vet which said they arent a physiotherapy or hydrotherapy clinic, rather  they are 
a veterinary referral centre.  They also mentioned the qualifications of one of their vets.  
They further said the treatment they offer differs  to a physiotherapy consultation and they 
feel it should be treated  as any other  veterinary treatment  rather than complimentary 
treatment.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision. Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind.
Red Sands  agreed  with the £100 compensation I was proposing  to award. Miss J didnt 
provide any comment around  this part of my provisional decision or why she disagreed  with 
it, so I see no reason to depart from the reasons outlined, or the amount of compensation 
Red Sands  should  pay. 
I acknowledge the statement  the treating vet has provided. This gives their broader views on 
why the services they carry out shouldnt be classed as complementary treatment. But they 
havent commented specifically on why the initial consultations arent intrinsically linked to 
the physiotherapy appointments,  other  than to say it is time spent with the vet. So, nothing 
has been provided which changes my view on this from my provisional decision.
The treating  vet also hasnt given me any reason to alter my view about the Orthopaedic  In 
Patient treatment. As I said in my provisional decision, the treating vet previously gave a list 
of the types of treatment carried out within these  sessions.  And the list of treatments 
includes physiotherapy and other similar types of treatment, to varying  extents and using 
different techniques.  And a breakdown of exactly what was carried out specifically  hasnt 
been given.
With this in mind, my view remains that given  the condition being  treated, medical  history  
and physiotherapy  leading  up to the Orthopaedic In Patient treatments, Red Sands has 
acted fairly  by classing  these as complementary treatments and applying the lower policy 
limit. So, Im not asking  them to pay more than the £73.40 remaining from the £500 limit.
My final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  and set out above,  my final decision is 
that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should  pay Miss J £100 
compensation.
Ref: DRN79063715Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7906371