K821x#15complaint
Mr B, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  lent money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the evidence  provided, Mr B entered  into 11 loans with QuickQuid  between  
February 2013 and May 2018.
Loan Amount Date Repaid Top up / fees
1 £100 21 Feb 2013 7 Mar 2013
2 £50 15 Mar 2013 28 Mar 2013
3 £50 4 May 2013 16 May 2013
4 £50 7 Sep 2013 20 Sep 2013 Late fees
5 £150 17 Mar 2016 1 Apr 2016 Late fees
6 £50 22 Apr 2016 30 Jun 2016 £75 (20 May)
7 £50 24 Jul 2016 30 Sep 2016 £100 (13 Aug)
8 £100 17 Oct 2016 31 Jan 2017 £150 (10 Nov)
9 £500 1 Feb 2017 28 Apr 2017 £150 (9 Feb)
10 £150 16 May 2017 31 Jul 2017 £50 (18 May)
£300 (13 Jun)
Late fees
11 £100 15 May 2018 £75 (22 May)
£50 (21 Jun)
Late fees
Mr B says that at the time of the loans  he had other  borrowings  and that the loans resulted in 
him getting further into debt. He says the QuickQuid suggested he had a monthly income of 
£5,000 which wasnt right and that his bank statements would have shown he earned a lot 
less than this. 
QuickQuid says that the first four loans provided to Mr B were  fairly small and that Mr B had 
no issues repaying them. There  was then a gap of over 900 days  before the next loan was 
provided. It says before  this and subsequent loans were provided  adequate affordability 
checks were carried  out including validating Mr Bs income  and expenses. It says that in 
September 2018, Mr B explained  he couldnt make his repayment due to a large  expense  
after which it assisted him with a repayment plan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had seen enough  to say that loans one to seven shouldnt 
have been provided. However, she thought that by the time Mr B applied for the eighth  loan, 
Mr Bs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-
term loans. She upheld this complaint in regard  to loans eight onwards.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It reiterated the checks that were  carried  out 
and the gaps in Mr Bs borrowing.
As a resolution hasnt  been agreed, this complaint  has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a decision.
Ref: DRN79736002my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early  loans in this case were provided  before CONC.  At that time the relevant  guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ref: DRN79736003Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
In this case, the first four loans were taken  out in 2013 and then Mr B didnt take out another 
loan with QuickQuid  until two and a half years  later. He then took out loans five to ten 
without any significant  gaps between them. There was a gap of around nine and a half 
months between when loan ten was repaid and loan 11 taken out. While this was a 
reasonably long gap, given how long Mr B had been  borrowing from QuickQuid and given 
his lending history  I dont think,  in this case, it would be reasonable for QuickQuid to 
conclude this was any indication that Mr Bs finances had moved  on from whatever situation 
had required  his previous loans. Therefore I have  considered the loans  in this complaint to 
fall into two lending  chains. The first four loans as part of the first lending chain and loans 
five to 11 (including top up loans)  as the second lending chain.
Before the loans in the first lending chain were provided information  about Mr Bs income  
was gathered. The information provided showed  Mr B had a low income. The first loan was 
for £100 and given  the size of the repayment  compared to his income  and that this was his 
first loan I dont find I can say this loan shouldnt have  been provided. Mr B then took out 
three more  loans in this lending chain each for £50. Again, based on the evidence I dont find 
I have enough  to say these shouldnt  have been provided.
Mr Bs next loan was for £150  and taken out in March  2016. At this time a very high income 
(almost £6,000)  was recorded. I accept this was incorrect and that QuickQuid should have 
realised this. I note the income recorded before the next loan was £1,375  which I accept as 
reasonable. Therefore I have made my assessment based on an income for loan five of 
around £1,375.
Loan five started  a new lending chain and having  looked at the information gathered I dont 
think I have enough  to say that loans five, six and seven shouldnt have been provided. 
However I agree that by the time loan eight was provided Mr Bs overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. Loan eight was the fourth 
loan in the lending chain  in a period of seven months. The amount Mr B was borrowing was 
fluctuating but he had incurred late fees and had topped up previous loans. Mr B then 
topped up loan eight as well. I think this shows that Mr B was struggling to manage  his 
money. 
Because of Mr Bs pattern  of borrowing and the other points made above, I think  that 
QuickQuid should  have realised that loan eight and the subsequent loans werent 
sustainable.
Overall, I think that Mr B lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from 
loan eight onwards.  These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr B's indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time. The sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr B's 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN79736004my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  eight onwards. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans eight to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any interest and charges from the outstanding balance;
use any redress to offset  the outstanding balance and pay any amount remaining to 
Mr B;
the number  of loans taken from loan eight means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So all entries about  these  loans should be removed from Mr B's 
credit file.
*HMRC requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid must  give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If QuickQuid intend to use 
the refund  to reduce  an amount Mr B owes, it must  do this after tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7973600