K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt complete an effective repair to his 
vehicle following a claim he made on his car insurance policy.
Any reference to UKI includes  its representatives or agents working  on its behalf. 
background
Following an accident Mr C made a claim under his UKI car insurance policy. As part of the 
repair, UKI fitted a new bumper to his vehicle. Mr C said within four months of the work being 
completed, paint  had begun to crack on the car showing a contrasting white colour beneath.  
Mr C said he believed the paint was faulty and complained to UKI.
UKI said the bumper was a new manufacturer part and hadnt  been painted by its garage.  
And having reviewed  the damage, it said it was caused by a physical impact,  such as stones 
chipping the paintwork. It found no defect in the bumper itself but told Mr C to attend  a 
manufacturer garage to have the part reviewed.  It said itd reconsider if the manufacturer 
garage established there was a fault, and he could provide this evidence. 
Mr C said he felt this was unlikely to be due to physical impact of stones as the damage  was 
limited to the rear of the vehicle, and only in two specific  places. He also said he didnt feel it 
was fair to expect him to attend other  garages. So he brought  his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. She initially  upheld the complaint, 
saying UKI was responsible for a further  inspection and it should pay Mr C £150. 
UKI responded and said Mr C hadnt  raised concerns about  the vehicle until around six 
months after the work was completed. It said it believed the car had suffered some physical 
damage during  this period  of use. And it said if the paintwork was faulty, it would have 
expected to see more damage across the entire  bumper and not in one place. UKI reiterated 
that it had given Mr C the option of having the car re-inspected which hed refused.
Our investigator looked again and didnt  uphold the complaint. She said shed been given no 
technical evidence  to support the paintwork had a fault. And taking everything into account  
she wasnt persuaded this was the most likely  cause  of damage.  Mr C disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
In this case, Mr C has complained about  the quality of paintwork  on his bumper. When  
considering a claim of this nature,  wed expect  a repair to be lasting and effective. So to 
decide whether  UKIs repair was lasting and effective Ive considered the available  evidence.  
UKI has said Mr C was satisfied with the bumper when it was first fitted. This isnt in dispute 
as Mr C has said the damage appeared after several months. So however  the damage  did 
occur, its clear it happened sometime after the bumper was fitted.
Ref: DRN72126942UKIs notes  show its engineers reviewed the bumper after Mr C raised his concerns. They 
found no evidence  of faulty  paintwork, describing  the two marks as directional digs, 
indicating a physical  impact from a particular direction  rather  than deterioration over time.
Due to the discrepancy,  UKI asked Mr C to attend a manufacturer garage for a re-inspection. 
And it said itd reconsider  its position if that garage did establish  there  was a fault with the 
bumpers paintwork. I think this is a reasonable approach given the dispute  and that its own 
engineers were confident there  was no fault in the repair. 
Mr C has given us his testimony and photos  of the damage. But hes provided no technical 
reports, evidence  or opinions  to support his allegation. And despite being  given  the 
opportunity to obtain an opinion from the manufacturer garage,  hes not done so.
As Ive said above,  in this case I think it was reasonable for UKI to ask for further  evidence  to 
support what hed said. And in the absence  of any expert evidence, Im satisfied UKI has 
acted fairly  by relying on the opinions of its own engineers and not repairing the damage to 
his bumper. So Im not asking  it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7212694