K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage application offered them the option to apply  for PPI or turn it down. 
The option  to apply for PPI was ticked,  and Mr and Mrs L signed the form. Mr L suggested 
that the tick for PPI differed too much  from the other ticks to be his. But there were various 
styles of ticks over the course of the form. And whoevers handwriting it was, its clear from 
the depth of information  on the form that Mr and Mrs L went through their circumstances and 
preferences with Lloyds  in some detail, so I think its most likely they discussed PPI too. The 
option to decline  PPI was noticeably left blank, and Mr and Mrs L signed  the form to confirm 
what was on it  and they had a responsibility to read what  they were  signing.
More importantly, Mr and Mrs L submitted an application specifically for PPI, which  again 
they both signed. They applied for PPI separately  to applying for the mortgage  itself, and 
they set up a direct debit  specifically to pay for PPI. The PPIs cost was paid separately to 
the mortgages cost  the policy wasnt necessarily or automatically included, and it wasnt  a 
condition of getting the mortgage. I think that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs L aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mr L, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr L wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While he had some benefits 
through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those, and it looks  like it offered  more  
comprehensive cover. Mr and Mrs L had some savings, but compared to their income  the 
savings were limited, and wouldnt have lasted that long if theyd been needed to cover  
Mr Ls salary once  his work  benefits ran out. I also understand Mr and Mrs L mightve been 
willing to sell off their other assets, but the PPI meant they wouldnt have to go to such 
extremes. Its worth bearing  in mind that Mr L was the main earner at the time, and if Mr and 
Mrs L fell behind on their mortgage they risked losing their home. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN79282012Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs L chose  to take out PPI, so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr L wasnt  affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for Mr and Mrs L in case  something 
went wrong. The policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay out in a claim and it 
looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis,  so 
Mr and Mrs L could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think  that better 
information was likely  to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs L mentioned theyd  had refunds for other PPI policies, and I understand 
why they brought this up. But different  PPI policies worked in different ways, covered 
different things, were  sold using  different  methods at different times, and so on. So even if 
one policy  may have been mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different policy  was, 
too. Not all policies  were mis-sold by any means, and we look at each case  on its own 
merits. I explained above why I dont think that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928201