K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his travel insurance claim for missed  
departure. 
background
Mr A told us he was travelling in a friends car to the airport to catch a flight  abroad when the 
car got a flat tyre. He says his friend fixed the tyre but they went  into heavy  traffic.  Mr A got 
to the airport late and missed his flight.  He bought a new flight  and claimed  on his travel  
insurance for his additional travel costs.
Aviva declined the claim. Mr A had told it he missed  the flight  due to heavy traffic. Aviva  said 
the policy didnt  cover that reason  but if Mr A provided evidence that an accident caused the 
traffic delay  it would review the claim.
Our investigator thought Aviva fairly declined the claim. 
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He also said Aviva had mis-sold the 
policy as it told him that if anything happened to him and he couldnt make  a journey he 
would be covered. Our investigator explained  we would consider the mis-sale complaint 
separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about whether Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Ive made  
a separate decision  about  Mr As related mis-sale complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy missed departure section  could cover Mr As new flight  costs (up to a limit) if he 
arrived at the airport  too late to check in as a direct  result of:
1. Delay  or cancellation to scheduled public transport services or a connecting  scheduled 
flight; or
2. Accidental damage to, or breakdown of the vehicle in which you are travelling.
The policy details what evidence Mr A must  provide to support those matters.
 
According to Avivas final response  letter  to Mr A, he only told it he was delayed due to 
heavy traffic. Aviva  told him the policy didnt  cover delay in a car due to that reason but it 
fairly said it would  reconsider the claim if Mr A got evidence from the highways agency that 
the heavy traffic was due to an accident. 
Id also think it fair for Aviva to reconsider the claim if the highways agency gave evidence  of 
a traffic delay for other reasons. But Mr A hasnt provided any evidence  from the highways  
agency to support that he got to the airport too late as a result  of heavy traffic.
Ref: DRN72190992I dont have a recording of the call Mr A made  to Aviva telling it about his claim. So he may 
have also told it the car he was in had a flat tyre, had to be fixed and then there was heavy 
traffic. 
The policy doesnt  cover  missed departure due to the car Mr A travelled in breaking down 
unless he provides a supporting report from a repairer or a breakdown  assistance provider. 
Mr A says thats not fair, he cant provide a report as his friend  fixed the tyre without any 
assistance.
Aviva can reasonably want a report from an independent third party to support that the 
breakdown occurred, and as a direct result Mr A missed his flight. The same or similar 
requirements are standard in travel  insurance policies.
Mr A hasnt provided any evidence in support  of the reasons  hes given as to why he missed 
his flight. Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219099