K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a car 
loan. Close  Motor Finance Limited  (CMFL) sold Mr H a policy  like this in 2009. The cover 
would pay his car loan in the event of Mr H losing his job or being unable  to work. 
Mr H says he was made  to feel the PPI was something he had to buy.
background
One of our adjudicators has told Mr H that they dont think the complaint about  the mis-sale  
should be upheld.  However, CMFL has already paid back some money to Mr H for the 
commission it got from selling him the policy.
Mr H still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place  and asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
CMFLs records show that Mr H arranged his car loan finance  on 14 November  2009.  It 
seems he was then telephoned  by CMFL on 20 November 2009 and during that call he was 
sold the PPI.
Its unfortunate that theres no recording left of that call but we do have access  to a 
telephone script  which CMFL  says its call-advisers  were told to use when selling PPI to 
consumers like Mr H. The context of the call seems  to be that car sale and finance had 
already taken place  the week before. And during the call, the adviser was supposed to tell 
Mr H about the PPI and consider recommending it to him. In following  the script, they were  
also under  a duty to only add the PPI once agreement from the consumer  had been  
properly obtained.
Theres no dispute that PPI was sold to Mr H, so I think its more likely  CMFL got his 
agreement during the call. I also think Mr H would have probably understood by that point 
that the PPI wasnt  something he needed to buy to get his car loan approved. I fully accept I 
cant say for sure that the script was followed correctly, but on balance I think  its more likely  
CMFL obtained Mr Hs consent  to add the PPI.
This looks very much like it was an advised  sale. This means Mr H had a right to expect 
the policy he was sold was suitable  for him. Overall I think it was.
This is because I think Mr H would have been eligible for the cover and I dont think that 
hed have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Ive 
looked at his circumstances and I dont  think he had much sickness protection  with his 
employment of that time. The PPI on the other  hand,  was designed to help out in times of 
financial uncertainty and it would have  paid off his monthly loan payments if he lost his job 
Ref: DRN79125462or became unable  to work. I think this would have been of use to Mr H and I think  it made 
the cover  suitable  for him.
I cant say CMFL  did everything  right. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think  
there were serious flaws  in the sale.  I simply dont have that evidence.  The limited  
information I do have  suggests he probably  agreed to the policy after already sorting out his 
car loan.  
I also note Mr H would have probably been  told the monthly and total cost of the PPI 
premium, over the term of his 5 year car loan. He would also have been required to sign a 
direct debit arranging  for the monthly  premium  to be collected separately from his bank 
account. Records show this was done.  And so I think Mr H was probably given enough 
information on which to make an informed decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs mis-sale complaint. And I dont direct 
Close Motor Finance Limited  to do anything to put matters right. I understand Mr H has 
already been paid back some of the commission Close Motor  Finance Limited  received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7912546