K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds  decision to decline a claim 
Mrs B made under her caravan protector policy after their caravan was stolen.
background
Mr and Mrs B said they towed their caravan from their home address where it is usually 
stored to a seasonal pitch theyd  bought  about 45 minutes away from where they live. 
They said that a few days later they received a call telling  them  their son was unwell and 
admitted to hospital.  So they had to leave unexpectedly. A few days  after that, the site owner  
called Mr B to tell him that their caravan  had been stolen. 
Mrs B made a claim under her policy.  Amtrust said that because  Mrs B didnt tell it theyd 
moved their caravan to a permanent  touring  site, this was a change of address as to where 
the caravan was being stored. And any change of storage or address had to be given to 
Amtrust and accepted  by it. Mr and Mrs B told Amtrust the site gates were left open at all 
times to allow caravans  in and out. Amtrust  said if it had been made aware,  it would have 
requested the caravan be moved.  
Mr and Mrs B complained about Amtrusts  decision and explained the reasons why they had 
left the caravan unexpectedly. They said they had been staying there until they received the 
call. 
Amtrust said that an exclusion still applied. As Mr and Mrs Bs caravan wasnt in use at the 
time of the theft, it was excluded  under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. I understand Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed but I will explain why. 
We look at whether an insurer has acted in a reasonable way and in line with the policy 
terms. 
Mrs Bs policy with Amtrust says that it excludes cover  when  a theft happens  while the 
caravan isnt in use - unless it is kept at their home or at a storage address which Mrs B has 
written and told Amtrust about and which Amtrust has accepted. This exclusion was set out 
under Amtrusts Key Facts document. 
The policy defines  the term In Use as:
Ref: DRN74189642When You or Your Immediate Family are using or visiting  Your  Caravan for holiday 
purposes or when the Caravan is attached  to a towing vehicle. This includes  a 24-
hour period immediately  prior to and returning  from You or Your  Immediate Family 
using or visiting Your  Caravan for holiday purposes  provided the Caravan is kept at 
Your Home during this 24-hour period. Please note the policy definition of Home 
excludes communal  parking areas and public roads or highways.
Mr and Mrs Bs caravan hadnt  been in use for four days when it was stolen. I sympathise 
with Mr and Mrs B as theyve explained why they left the caravan. But insurers  have 
exclusions such as these  due to the increased risk of theft where a caravan has been left not 
in use away from the secured  address.  So I cant say that Amtrust  has acted unfairly. And 
this means I think its decision to reject Mrs Bs theft claim was reasonable and in line with 
the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418964