K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Friends Life Limited has removed  online access to information  about his 
pension investments. 
background
Mr B took out a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2008. He bought  that plan from a 
company that was subsequently taken  over by Friends Life. So although Friends  Life didnt  
actually sell him the plan it is responsible for that sale and the subsequent servicing  of the 
SIPP. And more recently Friends Life itself has been  taken over by another  company. 
However, for simplicity,  in this decision I will generally refer to all actions  as having been 
taken by Friends Life.
Since taking  his SIPP in 2008 Mr B has taken another, separate, pension  plan from 
Friends Life. His complaint spans  the online access to both plans, though  it only mentions 
the mis-sale of the original plan.
Mr B says that it was of the utmost importance when he took his SIPP  in 2008 that he was 
provided with online  access to information about his investments. He says that shortly after 
taking the SIPP he had complained to Friends Life about some delays in transacting  
investments via the online system.  He says this underlines how important online servicing  
was to him. And he says that he was assured by Friends Life, when he took the SIPP,  that it 
would provide him with online information at all times.
As part of its merger activities Friends Life has recently started moving its customers onto a 
new online  servicing  platform. But it has needed to close its old platform  before that 
migration completes. So Mr B and other  similar  customers have temporarily been left without 
online access to information on their investments. But Friends  Life has said that it is able to 
provide information  to its customers via the telephone in the meantime.
The transfer of the Friends Life business  was subject to approval  by the High Court. It was 
possible for affected policyholders to object to that transfer if they believed they would be 
adversely affected.  But Mr B says that the loss of online access  wasnt disclosed until after 
the court hearings had concluded. He says he would have objected  to the transfer  if 
Friends Life had been more transparent about  the changes.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He concluded that it was 
unlikely that Mr B had been given an indefinite guarantee  of online access  to his account. 
And he thought  the removal of online access had been a legitimate commercial decision that 
Friends Life was entitled to take. So he didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN74178922Mr Bs wife has also been affected,  in the same  way, by the changes that have been made 
by Friends Life. She has a near identical complaint that I am deciding separately.  And I have 
considered both of the complaints on their individual merits. But given the similarity in Mr B 
and Mrs Bs complaints,  and the evidence presented by them  and Friends Life, I hope  they 
will understand why my decisions on the two complaints are commensurately alike.
At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mr B has given us his complete and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when he was sold his pension  plan. But Im mindful 
that the events  he has told us about  took place over ten years  ago, and over such a long 
period of time, even the most careful memories can and do fade. Where  there  are 
differences between  what  Mr B and Friends Life think  was discussed, I have needed to use 
the balance of probability in reaching  my decision  or, in other words, what I think is more  
likely to have happened.
I also think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish  businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I have no doubts  that online access to information  about his investments was something that 
Mr B had at the forefront  of his mind  when he was deciding whether or not to take a SIPP 
from Friends Life. I understand that Mr B, and his wife, met with their financial advisor and a 
representative of Friends Life as part of that decision making process. And I therefore  think it 
likely that a discussion about the availability of online servicing  would have formed  part of 
those discussions.
But, on balance, I think it unlikely that Friends Life would  have  given Mr B any assurances 
that it would  be able to provide online access to his investments in perpetuity.  Instead I think 
it more likely that Friends Life would  have confirmed that online servicing  was available and 
that there  were no plans  to make any changes to that availability. I think  it highly unlikely that 
any guarantees would have been  given, particularly since Mr Bs investment would be 
expected to be in place  for a considerable time into the future.
I have also considered what other options  Mr B might have  had in the wider  market place, if 
he had been concerned  that Friends Life couldnt  give him a guarantee of online access for 
the lifetime of his investment. And, to be frank, I dont think any other provider  would have 
been likely  to give him such a guarantee either. 
So even if Friends Life had failed to make it clear that it couldnt guarantee online access 
indefinitely, I dont  think it would have led to Mr B choosing a different provider  that 
provider couldnt  give him that guarantee either.  So I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to conclude that Friends Life misled Mr B when he took the SIPP  in 2008, or that he 
would have made a different decision if he should have been given clearer information.
Ref: DRN74178923The matters  that were placed  before  the courts largely related to the investment security and 
continuity of benefits that the policies provided.  But I have seen that Friends  Life confirmed  
to policyholders that;
there will be no changes to your policy terms and conditions, your policy  number, 
features, benefits or premiums;
the investment  strategy relevant to your chosen  funds will not be altered;  and
when you call us, you will speak to the same team of people  on the same phone  
number as you do now, and the level of service  you receive will not be altered.
So I dont  think it is reasonable for me to conclude that this information means that 
Friends Life misled Mr B, or the courts, in relation to the online access to his accounts.  
I dont consider the online access  to be a term or condition of his policy  or indeed a feature 
or benefit. I think those  relate to the way in which the policies are structured and things such  
as investment bonuses  and maturity dates. And I note that the website Mr B used for his 
online access had been closed for some  time before the deadline for objections  to the court  
about the transfer.
I think the way in which Friends Life chooses to provide information  to its policyholders is 
very much a commercial decision  that it wouldnt be appropriate for this Service  to intervene 
on. I can see from the terms and conditions that were applicable when Mr B first took his 
policy that Friends Life committed to send him statements twice  a year. They  didnt contain 
any terms relating to the provision of information online. But even if they had, those same  
terms and conditions allowed Friends Life to make reasonable changes by giving 30 days 
notice to policyholders.
So overall I dont  think that Friends Life has acted inappropriately by temporarily withdrawing 
Mr Bs ability  to view his investments online.  And I dont think  that online access  was 
something that Mr B was guaranteed when he originally took his SIPP,  and so I dont 
conclude that it was originally mis-sold to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Friends Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7417892