K822xComplaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the information he was provided with when he entered  into a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  with FCE Bank Plc to acquire a car. And the information  
provided when  he settled the agreement.
Background 
Mr M entered into a HPA with FCE to acquire a car. At the time he had the money  available 
to buy the car without  a finance  agreement  but he says he was told that by entering into the 
HPA he would benefit from a discount.
Mr M has raised the following complaints:
1.He was told to settle the agreement after a month in order for the dealership to get its 
commission but then found out he could have settled the agreement straight away  
without affecting  his discount or the dealers commission.
2.The car was advertised  as having road tax of £140 but when he came to pay this 
(after having signed all the forms and made  the other required payments) the road 
tax was £450.
3.He tried to settle the agreement at end March but due to the Easter holidays wasnt 
able to speak  to an adviser.  He generated a settlement quote  online but wanted to 
discuss this. He said the information provided at this point was to cancel his direct 
debit which he did. He then spoke to an adviser and said he had cancelled his direct 
debit. Following this Mr M was provided with a quote for settlement on 9 April which 
he paid. He received  a closure letter so believed the agreement had been  settled.  
But he was then contacted by FCE in June 2019 to say there  was a shortfall on his 
account due to the April direct  debit payment not being  made.
FCE said that the settlement quote  provided  to Mr M was based on the April payment being  
made. It said Mr M was liable for the shortfall  amount of £527.99. It said Mr Ms complaints 
regarding the mis-sale  of the car had been passed to the dealer.
Our investigator said that FCE had agreed to reduce the shortfall by £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill which  she thought reasonable. She also recommended that FCE pay the difference 
between the road tax cost and the amount  that was advertised.
FCE didnt accept our investigators  view.  It said it only offered the shortfall  reduction of £100 
because of the time taken to make the customer aware. It didnt accept it was liable for the 
difference in the road tax amounts.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr M had the funds available to pay for the car but chose to enter into the HPA due 
to the offer made by the dealer. He received the deposit allowance he had been 
offered and so I didnt  find any misrepresentation occurred in regard to this. 
Ref: DRN70087332Although Mr M said he was told to stay in the agreement for a month  before  settling, 
as he received the benefit he was offered and the agreement set out his options  in 
regard to an early exit I didnt require FCE to do anything  further  in regard to this part 
of his complaint.
The car was advertised  as having road tax of £140 a year. Due to the original price of 
the car exceeding  £40,000 an additional amount of car tax needed to be paid. 
Although the advertisement  didnt include the full information about the road tax (as it 
didnt include the additional amount that was required to be paid)  I found  it more 
likely than not that had the additional information been provided  Mr M would have still 
have gone ahead with the acquisition. On balance, I did not find that the road tax was 
an inducement for Mr M to enter  into the HPA and so didnt find that FCE was 
responsible for the difference in the road tax amounts.
Mr M decided to settle his HPA early. Mr M cancelled his direct  debit  before  he had 
settled his agreement. While I understood why this happened, Mr M shouldnt have 
cancelled this until after the HPA had been settled. The settlement quote was 
generated based on the April payment being made  and so a shortfall arose. I found 
that Mr M was liable for the shortfall amount. That said, I thought FCE could have 
provided better service  in regard  to this issue and agreed that a reduction in the 
shortfall of £100 was reasonable  remedy.
Mr M accepted part of my provisional decision but he didnt accept that he would have 
entered into the HPA had he known about  the higher  rate of road tax. He said that before 
choosing the car he searched for cars within his budget and that included the amount due for 
road tax. He said he relied on the information  in the advertisement  and that based on this the 
car was within his budget. He said that when he went  to collect the car and found  out about  
the higher road tax he felt he had little choice but to go ahead. He said this issue has had a 
knock-on impact and reiterated he would not have acquired the car had he known of the 
higher cost.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Mr M received  the benefits he had been offered for 
entering into the HPA and although  I understand the points he has made about exiting the 
agreement as the information was contained within the HPA I do not find that I have enough 
evidence to uphold  this part of the complaint.
Both parties  agreed to the £100 reduction in the shortfall so I havent  considered  this any 
further.
In regard to the road tax, I understand Mr Ms comments about  how he selected the car and 
his upset at finding out when collecting the car that the road tax was higher. However, Mr M 
was made  aware  of the issue at the point of acquisition and so he could have stopped  the 
HPA process at that time.  I appreciate that he had travelled to collect  the car and note his 
Ref: DRN70087333comments that felt he had no option but to go but, on balance, I do not find that I have 
enough to say that FCE should be liable for the extra  cost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. FCE Bank Plc should reduce the 
shortfall amount  of £527.99 by £100,  as it has agreed, so that Mr M is only liable to pay 
£427.99 to settle his account. It should remove  any adverse entries on Mr Ms credit file 
once the shortfall  has been paid. I do not require FCE Bank Plc to take any further  action in 
regard to the road tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7008733