K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Covea Insurance plcs service following a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes its agents.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident. Covea arranged for one of its approved  repairers to 
fix it. Mr B was unhappy with a number of aspects of Coveas service. Covea agreed  it 
hadn't got everything right. To address that it paid Mr B a total of £200 in compensation. It 
also reimbursed him £285 for some additional work  he had done to the cars wiring  and paid 
him £1,090  to allow him to buy a replacement alloy wheel.
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional  decision on 
21 May 2020. For ease  I've reproduced my provisional findings  below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made many detailed points and I've considered  everything 
that he's said. But in this decision  I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
points following our investigators assessment of the complaint.
Mr Bs car was in an accident with another car causing damage to the front and passenger  
side of Mr Bs car. Following the repairs Mr B said that a number of things weren't  right with 
his car including that the fuel gauge was faulty,  an airbag light had come  on and the car had 
developed a shake when  driven at speed.
Covea looked  into the fuel gauge issue. It seemed that this was caused  by a wiring  fault 
unrelated to the accident or repair. But as a gesture of goodwill and in recognition  that some 
of its service hadn't been at a standard it would wish to provide it reimbursed Mr B the £285  
it cost him to repair the fuel gauge issue and paid him £150 compensation. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances as I don't think it was under any obligation to pay for the 
fuel gauge  repairs.
But Mr B continued  to experience problems with his car, most notably with the wheel 
balance. He said that the front passenger side wheel, which Covea had had refurbished, had 
cracked. Covea didn't  think the crack was related to the accident, but as it couldn't  be sure it 
was unrelated said it would give Mr B the cost of replacing the wheel.
Covea explained  that it couldn't replace the wheel itself as the cars manufacturer said that 
the wheels fitted to the car weren't intended  for that model. So it wouldn't sell it a wheel to 
replace the damaged wheel on Mr Bs car. As a result Covea paid Mr B the cost of one 
replacement wheel, which was around  £1,090. Mr B said that was unfair as he said he could 
only buy the wheels  in a set of four. He initially said he could buy a set for £1,700 but later 
said that a full set of four wheels would costs £2,400.
Mr B continued to feel a vibration particularly while driving the car at speed.  So he paid the 
manufacturers garage £204  to investigate the problem. The manufacturer  said that the 
Ref: DRN74790082wheels fitted to the car weren't genuine  manufacturer constructed wheels and that three of 
the four were  buckled. They said that when  a good set of genuine  manufacturer  produced  
wheels were put on the car the vibration wasn't apparent. On that basis our investigator  
recommended that Covea  pay Mr B the cost of replacing two more of the wheels. In contrast 
Covea told us that its engineers didn't think that impact to the front passenger side caused 
damage to the front wheel on the drivers side or to the rear wheels.
I've thought very carefully about  whether the damage to the wheels was likely caused by the 
accident or subsequent repair. And from a lay perspective I think  its extremely  unlikely that 
the accident, which was to the front passenger side of the car could cause the wheel on the 
driver side or on the cars rear to buckle. So I don't think its fair to make Covea cover the 
costs of replacing those  wheels  as the damage wouldnt have been caused  by the accident. 
And as that's the case I don't think Covea  needs to reimburse Mr B for the cost of the 
manufacturers investigation into the vibration issue or any subsequent costs of 
inconvenience associated  with the issue with the wheels. 
Ive noted Mr Bs point  that its not possible to buy individual wheels. I've done some 
research and I found a new wheel, seemingly  the same as Mr Bs wheels, being sold 
individually on a well-known online  auction  site for less than half the sum Covea paid Mr B to 
replace the wheel. I also found a full set of four wheels for around £1,300.  So it appears that 
individual wheels  are available, although I accept that given they were being  advertised on 
an auction site they might not always be easy to find.
Also I noted  that when  the manufacturer inspected Mr Bs car it said that the wheels weren't 
genuine. So it appears that the wheels on Mr Bs car were an imitation of the genuine 
manufacturer made wheels. I understand that Mr B was unlikely to have been aware of this 
as the wheels were  on the car when  be bought  it. But Covea paid Mr B the cost of a genuine 
manufacturer constructed wheel. And non-genuine wheels are likely to be cheaper.  So I 
don't think  it would be fair to instruct Covea to replace  non-genuine wheels with genuine 
ones. And, in any event,  given that I've been able to find single  wheels available for sale, I 
think the amount  that Covea has already paid to Mr B should be enough to have  had the 
wheel replaced.
I understand that Mr B had a number of issues with Covea's service. But I think  its already 
done enough to put things right. For example, although his policy  only provides for a 
standard - and therefore fairly small - courtesy car, it provided Mr B with a much larger and 
higher specification car secured from a hire company at a considerable costs  to it, in order to 
accommodate Mr Bs needs. And as I've said above, I've noted  that its paid Mr B a total of 
£485 in compensation, including the cost of the fuel gauge wiring,  which wasn't accident or 
repair related. So I think it's already done enough to put things right. And as I don't think that 
the continuing issue with the balance of the wheels was because of anything Covea did 
wrong, I don't think it needs to address that point. It follows that I'm not going to instruct it to 
take any further action.
Neither Covea nor Mr B provided any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ref: DRN74790083As neither Covea  nor Mr B have  objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7479008