K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the mobile phone insurance cover that he received  as a benefit of his 
bank account  with National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr C had a bank account with NatWest. One of the benefits of the account was mobile  
phone insurance   and Mr C understood that if his phone was damaged hed be entitled  to a 
replacement phone  and would only need to pay an excess  of £100. He damaged  his 
phone in about September 2018 but didnt have enough money to pay the excess at that 
time. He made a claim for a replacement phone in October 2018 but was told that the terms 
of the benefit had changed and that his phone would be repaired rather  than replaced.  He 
complained to NatWest  but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
I understand that hes now closed his account  with NatWest.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  NatWest said that it 
sent advance  notice of the change in the terms of the insurance to all policyholders by e-mail  
or post.  And its clear from the evidence that its provided that Mr C had changed his e-mail  
address but hadnt notified  NatWest  of that change. So the adjudicator  concluded that 
NatWest couldnt  be held responsible for Mr C not being aware of the change  to the policy  
terms. And he thought  that NatWest had dealt  with this situation  fairly so he wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that NatWest hasnt provided evidence to show that a notice  was sent to him about the 
change to the policy terms and that when he opened the account he opted  for contact by 
phone or letter (and not e-mail).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest says that it changed the terms of the mobile phone insurance that it provided as an 
account benefit at the beginning of October  2018. And it says that, under the revised terms, 
it will now attempt  to repair a phone and, if its unable to do so, it will then replace the phone. 
And it says that it notified all relevant  customers by e-mail and/or post in August  2018 of the 
change. 
It also says that it became  aware  in a conversation with Mr C in November 2018 that his 
current e-mail was different to the e-mail  address for him in its records.  And it says that Mr C 
told it that hed started  to use a different e-mail  address  some  time ago. 
Mr C says that NatWest hasnt provided evidence to show that he was told about the change 
in the policy. But NatWest says that it did notify all relevant customers of the change in 
August 2018  and I consider it to be more likely than not that it did send a notice to Mr C  
even if the notice wasnt received by him.
I consider that NatWest  was entitled to change the terms of the policy. Mr C had provided  it 
with an e-mail address  and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that 
hed asked not to receive  notices by e-mail. So I consider that it was entitled to send notices 
Ref: DRN73361402to him by e-mail. Mr C had changed  his e-mail  address but hadnt notified NatWest  of the 
change so its records for him showed an old e-mail address  and I consider  it to be more  
likely than not that the notice was sent to his old e-mail address.
I understand that Mr C has now closed  his account and that his damaged  phone  hasnt been 
repaired or replaced. Im not persuaded that Mr C has provided enough evidence to show 
that he was entitled to a replacement phone. Nor am I persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that NatWest has acted incorrectly in connection  with the changes to the 
policy or Mr Cs claim. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
NatWest to replace  Mr Cs damaged phone - or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336140