K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited  cancelled  his medical insurance policy  and as
a result wont cover the full costs of an operation he underwent.
background
Mr K had a medical insurance policy with Vitality  for a number of years and it was renewed
in March 2017 for a further  year (the original policy). In October  2017 Vitality  cancelled the
original policy with effect of 20 July 2017 because the last monthly  premium  it received was
in June 2017.
Mr K says he only found out that the original policy had been cancelled  towards  the end of
November 2017  when he contacted Vitality to discuss authorising an operation  on his hip.
He says this surgery  had been postponed for almost 18 months because hed had two
coronary procedures within that timeframe.
In January 2018 Mr K took out another medical insurance policy with Vitality  and underwent 
hip surgery in spring 2018. Vitality  didnt agree to cover the cost of the surgery because  his 
hip condition  was considered to be pre-existing under the terms of the new policy. So Mr K 
ended up paying  for the surgery himself.
Mr K says Vitality acted unfairly by cancelling the original  policy.  He says if that policy hadnt
been cancelled,  he wouldnt have needed to take out a new policy  with Vitality and the costs
of the hip surgery  wouldve  been  covered under the terms of the original policy.
After complaining to us Vitality said that if Mr K paid his backdated monthly premiums for the
original policy it would  cancel the new policy and reinstate the original policy,  as a gesture of
goodwill. But even if the original policy was reinstated it said it wouldnt cover the full costs  of 
the surgery; it would only make a contribution. Thats because the hip surgery took place at 
a hospital not on Vitalitys  approved list.
As the surgery cost Mr K £13,500  he says he would  still be considerably out of pocket if he
accepted Vitalitys offer. He says had the original policy been  in place when he called to
authorise the hip surgery, he wouldve agreed to the operation  being  carried out at a hospital 
 and by a surgeon - on Vitalitys approved list.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said Vitalitys offer to reinstate the
original policy and contribute  to the surgery costs   on the condition  that Mr K paid his
backdated monthly premiums for the original policy  was fair. Mr K disagreed.  So his
complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2019. I explained why I was thinking of 
upholding Mr Ks complaint and asking Vitality to reinstate  the original policy with continuity 
of cover going back to July 2017  - so long as Mr K paid the backdated monthly insurance 
premiums for the original  policy.  If Mr K did that, I also said Vitality should pay him £13,500 
plus interest to cover  the cost of his hip operation and £250 as compensation for trouble and 
upset. Both Vitality and Mr K responded to my provisional decision. 
Vitality has explained  why it disagrees with my proposed findings. It doesnt  think it should 
cover the full cost of the hip operation Mr K had. Nor does it think Mr K should be given 
compensation for trouble  and upset.
Ref: DRN71491402Mr K doesnt  think he should  pay backdated  monthly  premiums  for the original  policy to date. 
He said he wouldnt have  renewed the original  policy with Vitality in March 2018, and if the 
policy hadnt been cancelled he wouldve had the hip surgery  before the original  policy was 
due to renew. Mr K doesnt think it would be fair for me to ask him to effectively pay for 
something he hasnt  had the use of. He also says that because  the original policy wasnt in 
place, he had to take out separate medical  cover  when  he travelled abroad towards the end 
of 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  all the points made  in 
response to my provisional  decision - to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold  it.
Under the terms of Mr Ks policy, Vitality can cancel the policy  if hes in breach of its terms. A
breach includes:  the non-payment  of premiums when they are due. But the policy also says 
if Vitality does cancel the policy,  it will write  to Mr K giving him 14 days notice. Vitality 
accepts that due to an administration error, it didnt issue  Mr K with a letter  confirming that 
his policy  was being cancelled. When responding to my provisional decision, Vitality says 
that Mr K might not have opened  and read the cancellation letter even if it had sent one. 
Thats of course possible,  but because it wasnt sent in October  2017,  I have  no way of 
knowing whether  he wouldve  read it then. But I think  its more  likely than not that he 
wouldve.
I accept what Mr K says: that had he received  notification that his policy was going to be
cancelled, he wouldve contacted Vitality asking them  not to do this and wouldve paid the
monthly premiums that were due at that time.  Hed been a policyholder for a number  of
years and Im satisfied that he valued  the policy benefits  especially as he knew at that
stage he needed  to have a hip operation in the near future.
The policy says Vitality  may, at its discretion, reinstate  cover  if any outstanding premiums
are paid within seven  days of it telling Mr K that his policy has been  cancelled due to non-
payment. I think that discretion wouldve been  exercised for similar reasons to Vitality  
offering to reinstate the policy after Mr K complained to us about  what  had happened; hed 
been a customer  for so long and hed previously  kept up to date with his monthly premiums.
When making this finding Ive also taken  into account Vitalitys  point that monthly premiums 
wouldnt have been collected from Mr Ks bank  account from June 2017   which  it says he 
ought to have realised. But that doesnt detract from the fact that it didnt send  Mr K a 
cancellation notice.
Ive taken into account the circumstances  that led to Vitality making  the decision to cancel 
the policy and what Mr K says about why he didnt respond to letters that had been sent to 
him before October 2017, asking him to confirm his direct debit details. 
Everyone accepts  that Vitality sent Mr K a letter on 3 July advising him that the bank account
from which the monthly payments were being  collected from had closed and it was unable to
collect payments via the direct debit details Vitality  had on file. He was asked to provide
fresh direct debit details  within  14 days to maintain cover. Letters were also sent to Mr K on
7 and 22 August  2017 reminding him to contact Vitality with his direct debit details. But,
importantly, these letters didnt expressly inform Mr K that his policy would be cancelled  if
Ref: DRN71491403those details werent provided  by him. He didnt receive anything  else from Vitality  about this
issue after its letter dated 22 August 2017.
I can understand why Mr K didnt respond to these letters at the time. A similar letter  had 
been sent to Mr K in early June 2017 in error and hed been  given an assurance during a call 
with Vitalitys representative on 14 June 2017  that it had correct  direct debit details on file. 
So I can see why he presumed  these subsequent  letters  had also been sent in error and he 
didnt pay too much attention to them. And although  I accept that there was no requirement 
for Vitality to do so, I can see why he mightve  reasonably thought that if there had been a 
real issue  with his payment details Vitality wouldve called him to discuss  this - as it had to 
done towards the end of May 2017  when there had been a genuine  issue  with his direct 
debit payment details.  That issue had arisen  after the account from which the payments 
were taken changed.
I also note that during  the time Mr K received the first of these letters, Vitality  issued Mr K 
with an authorisation  code  for an appointment he was due to attend in mid-July 2017.  So I 
can see why he mightve reasonably thought  that if there were  any issues with the payments 
details, this wouldnt have  been  authorised.
Had Mr Ks original policy been in place when  he contacted Vitality  towards  the end of
November 2017  to discuss authorisation for the hip surgery he needed, I think  its likely that
he wouldve agreed  to have the operation at a hospital  and surgeon - approved  by Vitality. 
I think the reason  why Mr K chose to switch surgeons from the one hed previously consulted 
to a different  surgeon, at a different hospital,  was because Vitality had declined  to cover the 
operation under the terms of the new policy. As Mr K was left in a position where he was 
paying for the operation  himself, I can see why he elected to be operated on by someone 
who had personally  been recommended to him by a friend.
putting things  right:
I know Mr K says because of the way Vitality treated him, and in particular because  of the 
way in which it cancelled  the original policy, he wouldnt  have stayed with Vitality.  He says 
he wouldve gone  to a different insurance provider. But Ive looked at what  most likely 
wouldve happened had Vitality not done  anything wrong i.e. if it had provided 14 days  
notice to Mr K that it would be cancelling the policy in October 2017.
As Ive said above,  I think Mr K wouldve challenged this and paid the number  of monthly  
premiums hed missed by that stage. Vitality wouldve most likely agreed to accept that and 
wouldve revoked  its notice to cancel the policy. Had that happened,  Ive also said that its 
likely Mr K, when  contacting Vitality to authorise  the hip surgery,  wouldve agreed to be seen 
by an approved consultant and the operation  wouldve  taken place at a hospital on Vitalitys 
approved list. 
Mr Ks referred me to some online comments hes made to support that hed lost faith in 
Vitality. Hes also told me that whilst  going to a different provider might not have resulted in 
a more competitive  premium, it would have been on a matter of principle by the shameful 
way he had been treated by Vitality after 25 years  continuous cover.  That may be the 
case but thats been said with hindsight. Had Vitality not done anything  wrong back  in 
October 2017, I think its most likely  Mr K wouldve chosen to renew the policy  with it. Ive 
assumed he wouldnt  have chosen to pay a higher premium to take a medical insurance 
policy out with a different provider and instead wouldve stayed with Vitality  who hed had a 
longstanding relationship with.
Ref: DRN71491404I understand the last monthly premium  paid for the original policy  was in June 2017. So Mr K 
should pay the backdated premiums  for the original policy going back to July 2017 , less any 
premiums hes paid for the new policy taken out in January 2018.
Vitality has sent a breakdown of what the monthly payments wouldve been had the original 
policy continued. I can see that due to various factors,  the cost of the original policy  wouldve 
increased in March 2018 to £748.32  per month  - had it been renewed.  
Had the original  policy remained  in place, and had it renewed in March  2018, Mr K
wouldve paid £8,923.72 in monthly premiums. That covers the period July 2017 to
December 2018  inclusive, less the monthly premiums hes been paying for the new policy  for
the period January 2018 and December 2018 inclusive.
So long as Mr K makes the payment  of £8,923.72  Vitality should:
i) cancel the new policy,  and reinstate the original policy with continuity of cover
going back to July 2017;
ii) pay Mr K £13,500, which is the cost of the hip operation he paid for in April 2018. No 
interest is payable on this amount as Mr K paid for the operation on an interest  free 
credit card and interest hasnt become payable  yet; and
iii) pay £250 by way of trouble and upset.  I know Vitality  says it disagrees with this sum 
 particularly because  it says it was Mr Ks banks error that led to the mix up with the 
direct debits,  and this ultimately led to its decision to cancel the original policy.  But 
Im satisfied  because Vitality cancelled the original  policy without notice to Mr K, he 
had to go to the trouble of taking  out a new policy with it and applying for an interest  
free credit  card to pay for his hip surgery. Hes also had the stress and worry of 
thinking about how he might pay for the credit card bill, if Vitality doesnt  pay for the 
operation in full. 
The payments referred to at (ii) and (iii) above  should be paid within 28 days of the date we
tell it accept my final decision or within 28 days of the date Mr K makes the payment referred
to at (i) above, whichevers later. If Vitality pays later than that it must also pay interest on
the amount set out at (iii) above from the date of my final decision  until the date of payment
at 8% per year simple*.
Mr K also needs to pay the monthly premium  due in January 2019 for the original policy  (at 
the renewal cost) less any monthly  premium  hes paid for the new policy  in January  2019. 
Mr K says he took out a travel insurance policy to include separate  medical cover  - when he 
travelled abroad  in late 2018. He says he wouldnt  have needed  to take that out, had the 
original policy still be in place then. Mr K has given me details of that policy and it forms part 
of a premier packaged  bank  account which he pays £27 per month  for. So although he paid 
£10 to add an excess waiver to the premier policy in September 2018,  I think  its likely he 
wouldve been paying for that travel insurance policy anyway  as it was attached to his bank  
account. So I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Vitality to be responsible  for 
this cost. 
Ref: DRN71491405my final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Vitality  Health Limited should  put things rights by doing what  Ive 
asked it to do above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman
*If Vitality Health Limited  considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off
income tax from any interest  paid,  it should  tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also
give him a certificate  showing this if they ask for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7149140