K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about the unsuitable  advice he was given by The Prudential  
Assurance Company  Limited with regards to his mortgage and pension  arrangements. 
background 
Mr H had a mortgage  with a building society. In 1988, following advice from Prudential, a 
new interest only mortgage was arranged with a bank. Mr H already had two pensions  with 
Prudential at this point which had commenced  in 1979 and 1985.  A third pension was started  
in 1988 to coincide with the new mortgage. Further funds were  borrowed thereafter, and the 
amount Mr H paid into his pensions changed  as well.
In 2003 Mr H switched  to a repayment mortgage  with the same bank. 
In 2007, Mr H transferred  all three of his pensions to a self-invested personal  pension  
(SIPP).
Mr Hs mortgage was repaid in full in 2012.
Mr H says his pensions  were insufficient  to pay off his mortgage in 2007, when he reached  
60, which is what he was led to believe would happen. He complained  to Prudential.
Prudential upheld Mr Hs complaint. It said it wasnt clear from the available  evidence (which  
wasnt comprehensive)  whether  Mr H did have the risk appetite  to have wanted a pension  
mortgage back in 1988. So it looked at what position Mr H would have been in had he had a 
capital repayment  mortgage all along. However,  when comparing  the amount Mr H would 
have repaid if his mortgage had always been  on a capital repayment basis with the amount 
of tax-free cash Mr H had available from his pensions in 2007 (when he transferred his 
pensions to a SIPP), its calculations showed Mr H had suffered no financial loss. 
Mr H disagreed. In particular, he pointed out that the original  term of the mortgage was 19 
years, which  would have meant it ending in 2007  when  he reached 60. Its an important point 
because the tax-free cash available in 2007  would have fallen short of the amount then 
needed to pay off Mr Hs mortgage. Mr H says he suffered  financial  hardship as a result  
because when he realised  his pensions wouldnt pay off his mortgage as expected, he felt 
he had no choice but to change to, and pay for, a capital  repayment  mortgage and extend its 
term by five years to 2012.  He also says his pensions were too small to give him a good 
retirement income. He thinks  Prudential  should compensate him for the five years of 
additional mortgage payments he says he otherwise wouldnt have had to pay. He asked us 
to look into his complaint.
Our adjudicator was satisfied with the information  and the method Prudential  had used in its 
compensation calculations. In particular,  he was satisfied that the original term of Mr Hs 
mortgage was 24 years  that is, to 2012 when Mr H reached 65  rather than the 19 years  
Mr H has said.  However,  even  though  he recognised Prudentials calculations  didnt show a 
financial loss, he thought Prudential should have done more  to reflect the trouble  and upset 
it had caused.  He recommended Prudential pay Mr H £250. 
Both parties  disagreed; Mr H because he thinks he has lost out by far more than £250 and 
Prudential because it doesnt think a trouble and upset award is warranted. Prudential did, 
Ref: DRN71805902subsequently, offer to pay Mr H the £250 recommended by the adjudicator. But because 
Mr H rejected this offer, the matter  has been  referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont comment in detail  on the advice that led to Mr H using pensions as repayment  
vehicles for his mortgage. Suffice  to say Mr H thinks he has lost out because  of Prudentials  
advice, and Prudential  has agreed that it should look into compensating Mr H for its actions. 
What I need to decide upon is whether Prudentials approach to Mr Hs financial loss was 
correct and whether  £250 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset  it caused.  
In relation to the first issue, the main sticking point between the parties is the original term of 
Mr Hs mortgage. Mr H says the pension was originally set to run for 19 years, maturing  in 
2007 when he reached 60. Mr H says this was because he didnt want  to be paying his 
mortgage after he reached 60 because his occupation would have  made it difficult to find 
work after that age. Mr H also points to two 1988  letters sent by his mortgage  lender 
detailing a pension  quotation for a period of 19 years and an agreement-in-principle  for a 
mortgage of 20 years. And he says the mortgage  term was only extended to 24 years in 
2003 in response  to the performance of his pensions. In addition, Ive also seen a 
September 1988 letter from Mr Hs mortgage lender to Prudential that gives the pension date 
for the pension he took out with the mortgage  as being 1 June 2007. And Ive seen 
correspondence between  Mr H and Prudential from 2007 that shows Mr H chose to defer his 
retirement age for this pension for another five years.
Against this, Mr Hs mortgage  lender has confirmed the mortgage was originally set up to run 
for 24 years, maturing  in 2012. It has also provided a letter it sent to Mr H dated 3 April 2003  
(which was shortly before  Mr H changed  to a repayment mortgage) showing the original 
loan term as being 24 years. And it has provided a letter it received from Mrs H dated  
10 April 2003 requesting a change from an interest  only mortgage to a capital repayment 
mortgage. The letter doesnt say anything about  changing the term of the mortgage.  
I recognise the evidence is incomplete  and contradictory here.  However, as Mr Hs mortgage 
provider is a neutral  party  in this complaint, I consider its statement that the original 
mortgage term was 24 years carries a significant  amount  of weight  especially given the 
other supporting evidence  it has provided.  As such,  Im satisfied the original mortgage term 
was for 24 years and, therefore, Im satisfied  Prudentials  approach  to compensation, and 
the assumptions it used,  are in line with our usual  approach in such circumstances.
There appears to be a mismatch between the retirement date of the pension  Mr H took out 
with the mortgage (2007)  and the date the mortgage was due to be paid off (2012). But, 
Mr Hs other  pensions  which appear to have been  considered as repayment  vehicles for 
the mortgage as well  had later retirement ages.  And even if Mr H had been led to believe 
his 1988 pension would pay off the mortgage early,  in 2007, and produce a sizeable 
retirement income as well, the fact that the pension wasnt sufficient to do this doesnt 
change the outcome of the complaint. I say this because  Mr H would have needed to have 
contributed more into his pension  to have achieved these goals so it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Prudential responsible for compensating Mr H for payments that would always have needed 
to come from Mr H. 
Ref: DRN71805903Turning to the issue of trouble and upset,  Prudential initially objected to the adjudicators 
recommendation that it should pay Mr H £250.  Prudential subsequently said it would be 
willing to pay the £250 in order  to bring  the complaint to a close. But Mr H rejected this offer. 
So, for the sake of completeness, I will look at Prudentials arguments on this issue.
Prudential disagrees  with a trouble and upset  award because it says it responded to a query 
from Mr H about his projected pension back in 1998. It also said Mr H switched to a capital 
repayment mortgage in 2003 and paid off his mortgage in 2012.  It concludes that it isnt fair 
to pay a trouble  and upset award for events that were dealt with 15 to 20 years ago. It also 
points out that Mr H hasnt lost out financially as a result of what has happened.
Firstly, Prudentials comments about the length of time between  the events in question and 
Mr Hs complaint are not relevant here. Time limits do apply when it comes to making a 
complaint, and we wouldnt  ordinarily look at issues that have been dealt with already. So 
Prudential could have  raised these points  with us. But, instead, it consented to us looking 
into Mr Hs complaint. As such I dont think previous events, and how long ago they were,  
are relevant  when assessing the trouble and upset  Mr H experienced. I also dont think  
Mr Hs lack of financial  loss is a consideration here.  By its own admission, Prudential should 
have done better when  it advised Mr H so I think Mr H would have suffered at least  some 
angst over the years as a result  his query  to Prudential  in 1998 and change  of mortgage in 
2003 would  seem to attest to that. The fact that Mr H didnt, ultimately, lose out financially 
doesnt change  this. Putting a figure on the amount Prudential should pay as a result  isnt an 
exact science,  but Im satisfied £250  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As for Mr H, he rejected Prudentials offer of £250 because  he feels  he has suffered an even 
greater financial loss as a result of Prudentials actions. So I dont  think Mr H has objected  to 
the £250 for trouble and upset as such although  I appreciate why he will be upset that this is 
all Im awarding.
In sum, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint but not to the extent  he would like. Prudential,  by its 
own admission, should  have done better. And it should pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and 
upset it caused  as a result. However, there  is no further compensation for Prudential  to pay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  The Prudential Assurance  
Company Limited  must now pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset it caused. There  is no 
further compensation to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180590