K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Birmingham Midshires-branded buy to let mortgage Mr H holds 
with Bank  of Scotland plc. Mr H, who is a discharged  bankrupt, is unhappy that Birmingham 
Midshires (BM) is recording (and then manually removing) adverse entries on his credit file 
about late payments.  BM has paid Mr H £500 compensation for the error, but hes not 
satisfied that this compensates him for the impact on his efforts  to rebuild his credit rating. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the amounts involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
Mr H was made bankrupt in 2011, and was discharged in 2012. Around  that time, BM 
appointed Law of Property  Act (LPA) Receivers  to take over and manage the property and 
the mortgage on it. Since that time, the LPA Receiver has passed the monthly rent received 
onto BM for credit  of the mortgage  account. 
Occasionally, as a result of a lag in that process,  BM has incorrectly  reported  a late payment 
marker on Mr Hs credit  file. It has a process  for manually removing the entry when this 
happens, but Mr H says it is impacting on his efforts to rebuild his credit rating, causing him 
problems getting  credit at the best available rates, or sometimes  being refused altogether. 
As an example of the latter, he cites that his car is leased in his partners name.
Its happened more  than once. In 2017, it was raised with BM as an add-on  issue  to a 
complaint Mr H had made about  other  matters,  which were referred to us to consider at the 
time. The issue of credit  file reporting  was, however, dealt with in a separate final response 
by BM in May 2017, and wasnt included in the complaint we dealt  with. 
It happened again in early  2018,  prompting this complaint. Weve  had to explain to Mr H that 
we can only deal with the 2018  incidence, as he is time-barred under our rules from 
referring the 2017 incidence to us. As I understand it, there was further incidence at the end 
of 2018 and early  2019, and Mr H raised  a separate complaint with BM about that which  can 
be referred to us if hes not happy  with the outcome.
The mortgage in question is held jointly with Mrs H, Mr Hs former wife. Shes aware of this 
complaint but has brought her own separate complaint about the impact on her own credit 
file. This is solely Mr Hs complaint about his own credit profile.
BMs position is that it is aware  of a flaw in its systems, and is in the process of changing to 
a new platform that will prevent this problem from happening again. Until then, it relies on 
manual intervention to remove incorrect entries when they occur. 
It accepts that when things go wrong,  theres  an impact on the consumer and Mr Hs case, it 
paid him £500  compensation  (the same  response  as it provided to the 2017 complaint, 
Ref: DRN73900032which we cant consider).  BMs  also said that until the system  change takes effect,  it cannot  
rule out the possibility  of further occurrences, but that it will deal fairly with any subsequent 
complaints it receives. 
Our investigator thought that was fair in all the circumstances,  but Mr H has asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes  between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts.  
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For completeness, Ill explain that whilst the right to enforce the security in the event of 
discharge from bankruptcy  is preserved by section  281(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986, 
section 281(1) says that where  a bankrupt is discharged, the discharge releases the 
borrower from all the bankruptcy debts. 
In the case at hand, this means  that Mr H isnt liable to pay the monthly  instalments and BM 
should neither  pursue him for payment nor report non-payment  or late-payment to credit  
reference agencies  in respect of Mr H. That was BMs  error; and none of that is disputed. 
BMs aware of, and endeavouring to fix, the situation that has caused it to happen.  
I cant interfere in that process; it would mean  me straying into the regulatory function of the 
FCA. So a decision from me cant (and to be fair, isnt intended to) future-proof Mr H against 
the possibility  of the problem happening again before BM has effected the necessary system 
change. All I can do is look at the 2018  occurrence and decide if BMs offer of £500 
compensation is fair. 
In all the circumstances, I think it is. Our investigator has advised Mr H of steps he can take 
in the short  term to check the reported  position on his mortgage account before he makes 
any application for credit. Its up to Mr H whether he does that; Ive certainly no power to tell 
him he what to do, but it seems to me to be good advice, as it should  enable him to mitigate  
the potential for credit  requests  being accepted on less than advantageous terms or possibly 
rejected altogether.
Ref: DRN73900033my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Bank  of Scotland plc. My final decision concludes  this services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390003