K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) unfairly refused to provide her 
with a full payment for losses shes suffered, and which she should  be able to claim for 
under her travel insurance policy.
background
In November 2018 Ms G took out an insurance  policy with ERGO  to cover her for a planned 
holiday in early 2019. Ms G was travelling abroad  on an active  holiday that would  involve 
hiking, cycling and kayaking. On her arrival she discovered her baggage  had been delayed, 
and she didnt receive this back until about  six days later.
Ms G said she read her policy,  and believed  there  was a £1,000 limit (per person) for 
essential purchases when baggage is delayed, in addition to a £100  limit (per person) 
payment for delayed  baggage. So she and her partner bought various  items  of equipment   
to the value of about £1,100  to allow them to continue with their planned  activities.
ERGO accepted the baggage was delayed for several days  and said it would pay the overall 
limit of £100  per person.  And it said if it the items had been permanently  lost it wouldve 
considered the full cost to the maximum value of the policy limit (£2,000).  But, as the items  
were only delayed and not lost, it felt it had settled this claim fairly.
 
Ms G brought her complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into things. 
The investigator said ERGO had handled the claim fairly taking into account  the limits of the 
policy so she didnt  ask ERGO to do anything further.
Ms G disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that Ms G and her partners luggage was delayed  for around six days. And 
ERGO has accepted this when considering the claim. So when looking at this case  I have to 
consider whether ERGO  has applied its policy terms fairly.
Ms G says that she should  also be able to claim for the £2,000  limit for personal  property for 
essential items she needed to enjoy her holiday.  And she says the policy  is unclear.  
Ive considered the policy carefully, and it says:
If Your baggage is delayed or lost on the OUTWARD JOURNEY  for more than 12 hours,  
We will pay up to the overall limit stated  in the Schedule of Cover, in order  for You to buy 
essential items. You must  get written confirmation  of the length of the delay and keep all 
receipts for items purchased. We will deduct  any payment We make  for delayed baggage 
from the amount  of any claim  if the baggage is permanently lost. (my emphasis)
Ref: DRN73440272Ive also looked  at Ms Gs policy schedule. This sets out the overall policy limits  for the 
different aspects of the insurance.  I think  this is presented in a clear,  fair and not misleading 
way. This says the limit is £50 per 12 hours  for delayed  baggage. And this has maximum 
value of £100 for the type of cover Ms G took.
Ms G and her partners luggage  was delayed for longer than 24 hours, so ERGO has offered 
£200 in total, in line with the policy terms. And Im satisfied this is correct. I appreciate Ms G 
feels strongly about her interpretation of the policy, but I dont agree with her view for the 
reasons Ive given.
So overall Im satisfied ERGO has settled this claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with 
the policy terms. And Im not asking it to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7344027