K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) changed its valuation  of her property,  
which means shes now unable to sell it to repay  her interest  only mortgage. Shes 
represented by her husband,  Mr I, with whom weve communicated throughout.
background
In 2003, Mrs I took out an interest only mortgage  with HSBC of £105,000, for a term of 
14 years.  The mortgage  term expired in May 2017. She also took out a further advance in 
2004, on a capital and interest  repayment basis, over a term of ten years, which  has now 
been repaid.
Mr and Mrs I had planned to repay  the mortgage by downsizing.  They  put the property on 
the market in January 2018  and have received offers. But the sales have fallen through as 
the buyers werent able to obtain  a mortgage.
Mr I says the prospective buyers  have struggled to obtain a mortgage as the property was 
previously owned  by a local authority, and is a concrete build high rise. The prospective  
buyers were  turned down for a mortgage by HSBC when surveyors said it wasnt suitable for 
mortgaging.
Mr I complained, on behalf of Mrs I, that HSBC had given a zero valuation on the property in 
2007, and now wouldnt offer a mortgage to prospective buyers. Mr and Mrs I are very 
concerned about  the prospect of HSBC taking legal  action, due to the mortgage having  
ended, and the potential  they will lose their home.
HSBC issued a final response letter in May 2018, which  Mr I disputed. It issued a further 
final response letter in November 2018. To resolve  the complaint,  it offered Mrs I £8,000 to 
pay her external debts  and a further £2,700 to help with moving costs. HSBC  also 
suspended the interest  on the account for a few months so that Mrs Is monthly payments 
would go towards  the outstanding capital balance.
Mrs I wasnt happy with HSBCs offer and Mr I referred the complaint to us. Our investigator  
initially thought  the complaint had been brought out of time, as it had come to us more  than 
six months after HSBCs initial final response  letter of May 2018.
Mr I disagreed and another of our investigators  reviewed the complaint and said he thought 
HSBC had done enough to resolve  things. He didnt recommend it do anything  further.  Mr I 
disagreed, so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at both of HSBCs final response letters. Im satisfied that the second final 
response letter replaces  the first, as HSBCs position on the complaint  changed  significantly.  
I therefore consider  the complaint to have been  brought in time.
Im not able to reach a decision about how HSBC has considered  applications made by the 
prospective buyers of Mr and Mrs Is property, as those  applications  werent made by Mrs I. 
Ref: DRN76721022That means I cant consider whether it was fair for it to decide that the property was or 
wasnt suitable for it to use as security for any potential  buyers  mortgage.  In this decision,  
Ive considered how HSBC have treated Mrs I.
HSBC has provided  the valuation  it arranged  when Mrs I took out the mortgage.  This 
valuation was completed to check the property was suitable security for the mortgage,  in line 
with HSBCs lending criteria at the time,  which it confirmed.
Mr I has referred  to HSBC completing a further valuation on the property  in 2007, and this 
being the cause of it refusing to offer a mortgage to their prospective buyers.  Its important 
that I say thats  not the case  HSBC didnt complete a fresh  valuation  until 2018,  when it 
arranged one to see what support it could  provide to Mrs I. 
HSBC has told us its lending criteria  changed in 2007, and from that time it chose  not to offer 
mortgages on buildings similar to the one Mr and Mrs Is flat is in. But that was a general 
change to its criteria for all mortgages,  meaning  that from then onwards it wouldnt lend on 
any properties of this type. It didnt re-value the property at that time.
Its also worth pointing  out that neither  HSBC  nor the surveyors have said that the property is 
worthless or has no value.  In the context of a mortgage application, a zero valuation  doesnt 
mean that the property has no value in itself  it means that its not suitable  to be used to 
secure a mortgage  lent by the lender which asked for the valuation.
Given the type of property, its likely  that some other lenders would take the same view. But 
others may not  and the availability of a mortgage  wouldnt  affect  a cash buyer. 
As Ive explained, I cant consider whether it was fair for HSBC to turn down the buyers  
application for a mortgage, since the buyers  arent  party to this complaint and Mrs I wasnt  
party to their application. But its worth saying that, generally speaking, its for a lender to 
decide whether  or not it wants to lend  and whether its willing to accept particular 
properties or types of properties as security.  Theres  no rule of law or regulation  that says 
lenders have to offer mortgages on all properties, regardless of whether  or not theyve done  
so in the past.
I dont agree with Mr I that HSBC is under a duty to notify its customers  of changes  to its 
lending criteria. This was a change in lending appetite that wouldnt affect existing loan 
agreements. And it might  only become  relevant  to some customers at an unknown  point in 
the future.  It hadnt revalued this property specifically; it had decided  that, in the future, it no 
longer wanted  to lend on particular types of properties. This change of policy didnt affect  the 
mortgage Mrs I already had in any way.
However, I do have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs I. I think  its likely that its not only 
HSBC that is unwilling  to lend on properties like theirs, and that does  make  it more difficult  
for them to sell their property to repay their mortgage.
I appreciate that the situation  is causing  them considerable stress, and I understand their 
concerns about  their ability  to repay  the outstanding balance.  Theyve  been  trying to do so 
by selling the property for some time now, and have been unable  to. That said,  just because  
theyve been unable to sell the property  until now, it doesnt mean a sale is impossible.  For 
example, they may be able to arrange a sale to a cash buyer.
Ref: DRN76721023HSBC hasnt changed its lending policy, or said that it would accept a new application from 
any prospective buyer of Mr and Mrs Is flat, as a result of this complaint. I dont think  it has 
to. But its recognised that the changes it made some years  ago  in common with other 
lenders  have  made it more difficult for them to sell. Its also taken into account  
Mr and Mrs Is particular circumstances, especially their ages and state of health. Its said it 
doesnt anticipate  it will take action to recover the mortgage balance in the near future, and 
in all the circumstances I think  thats  fair.
HSBC has also recognised that Mr and Mrs I wanted to sell not just to repay the capital,  but 
also because they were beginning to struggle with the monthly payments. Exceptionally, 
taking their situation into account, its offered  to pay them around £10,700 to help them 
reduce their outgoings  by settling their other debts, and its suspended interest on the 
mortgage account for a few months so that the payments they make reduce the capital 
balance. In Mrs Is particular circumstances,  I think thats a fair way to help.
I would say that I would expect  HSBC  to continue to engage with Mr and Mrs I about the 
sale of the property and how the mortgage is to be managed  in the meantime, bearing  in 
mind the difficulties its aware  are present, and Mr and Mrs Is particular circumstances, 
when it considers any further actions it may take.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made  a fair and reasonable offer 
to assist Mrs I. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7672102