K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled a dispute he raised 
about some  flights he didnt receive.
background
Mr K paid for some  return flights using his Nationwide debit card.  A couple of months later 
he contacted Nationwide  to say the airline had gone into administration so he hadnt 
received the inbound flights.  Nationwide claimed  back the cost of the inbound flights from the 
airline. 
Following this Mr K contacted Nationwide to say he hadnt received the outbound  flights 
either, so he wanted  a full refund. Nationwide said it had already  made  a claim against the 
airline and it couldnt make  a second. 
Mr K complained. He said he should get a full refund because he didnt  get the outbound 
flights or the inbound  flights. He said he should  have been told only one claim could be 
made. And he said a full refund  was credited to his account and then the cost of the 
outbound flights  was debited, without giving him notice  or asking his permission. Nationwide  
responded to say it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. 
The complaint was brought to this service. The investigator thought Nationwide  had handled 
Mr Ks dispute with the airline fairly, so she didnt think  Nationwide needed to do anything  
more. Mr K disagreed, saying he should  have been  told only one claim  could be made and 
that he should have been told the cost of the outbound flights  would be debited  from his 
account. The complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the call Mr K made  to Nationwide.  He said he had paid for flights,  the airline 
had gone into administration and he wanted to claim a refund  through  Nationwide. Mr K said 
he received the outbound flights but not the inbound flights. Nationwide said it would look to 
claim back the cost of the inbound flights, but not the outbound  flights,  as hed received 
those. Mr K didnt dispute this. Mr K went on to say he wanted  to claim a full refund because 
the alternative inbound flights  were  more expensive than the original return flights. 
Nationwide explained  this wasnt possible as hed received the outbound flights. Again, Mr K 
didnt dispute  this.
Following the call Mr K provided information about  the flights  hed paid for. This showed hed 
paid £966 for the flights - £540  for the outbound ones  and £426  for the inbound  ones. 
Nationwide made  a claim against  the airline for the cost of the inbound  flights. The claim was 
successful. Nationwide  credited his account with the amount of the disputed  payment (£966) 
and debited the cost of the outbound flights (£540), leaving Mr K with a refund of the cost of 
the inbound flights (£426). 
Following this Mr K said he hadnt  received the outbound flights. Nationwide  said it couldnt 
make a second claim. I think  this was correct, as Nationwide  had already  disputed the 
payment Mr K made to the airline.  In any case, even if Nationwide could make  a second 
Ref: DRN75674652claim, I dont  think it would have to. I say this because I think  its unlikely a dispute about the 
outbound flights  would  succeed. This is because Mr K has directly contradicted his own 
testimony and because he hasnt been  able to show alternative  outbound flights  were  
booked. 
I dont think - as Mr K suggests - Nationwide needed  to explain only one claim could be 
made to him during  the original claim discussion. I say this because it was clear Mr K was 
only claiming for the inbound flights and Nationwide explained to him that it would try to 
claim only the cost of those. I dont  think Nationwide could  reasonably  have known he would 
later change his mind about  what had happened  and what  he was claiming  for.
Mr K is unhappy Nationwide credited his account  with a full refund and then on the following 
day debited the cost of the outbound  flights, without notice or his permission. I dont think it 
needed to give him notice  or ask his permission. Mr K was only entitled  to a partial refund, 
and this remained in his account.  It was only the cost of the outbound  flights  which was 
debited. I think  what Nationwide did around the credit and debit was most likely an 
accounting exercise. I cant see that it had an impact on Mr K. He hadnt, for example, spent 
the additional money on the basis he thought it was his. 
Overall, I think Nationwide handled Mr Ks dispute fairly. So Im not going  to require it to take 
any further action  in relation to this complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7567465