K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) applied unfair 
charges for damage at the termination of her hire purchase agreement. She wants  the 
charges to be reduced.
background
Miss R tells us that the day before she was due to hand back  the vehicle at the end of the 
finance agreement, it was hit by another vehicle and the bumper was damaged. She says 
she subsequently received an invoice  for £751.15 (inc. VAT) for the refurbishment charge.  
She says that whilst she was prepared to have the damage repaired  she thinks VWFS  have 
applied an excessive charge. And she says shes provided estimates from other sources  
which show she couldve had the repairs  done much cheaper.
VWFS told us the vehicle  had been  inspected by a company Ill refer to as B. It said the 
inspection revealed  the bumper required replacement. And that the prices it (VWFS) 
charged were towards the lower end of the industry spectrum. It said that if Miss R was able 
to show an authorised repairer  or dealership wouldve completed the repairs any cheaper it 
would be prepared to take this into consideration. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said shed 
considered the estimates which Miss R had supplied  from two repair agents. But she didnt 
think these could be relied on. She said these estimates had only been  based on 
photographs - and she didnt think that simply repairing the paintwork  would  .result in a 
satisfactory repair as the damage required the bumper to be replaced. She said it was 
probable that if Miss R had gone  ahead  with only the paintwork repair VWFS wouldve 
deemed it unsatisfactory. And this wouldve  led to Miss R being  in an even worse position.
Miss R didnt agree with this outcome. She said shed have had the vehicle repaired to the 
highest standards and had provided  information to show a new bumper wasnt  needed. As 
its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make  the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss R has found herself in this unfortunate  situation. Its extremely bad luck to 
have an incident  occur so soon  before a vehicle is handed back. And so I can understand 
the cost of repair is something she hadnt expected or budgeted for.
In reality, theres not much factual dispute  in this complaint  and what there is seems to turn 
on the degree of repairs necessary to restore the vehicle to a satisfactory  condition.  Where 
evidence is inconclusive  or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Ive seen the photographs  of the vehicle which accompanied Bs inspection report. These 
show that theres a considerable  degree  of damage which seemingly goes  beyond  a simple  
paintwork repair. The bumper appears  to be cracked and as such I agree it would require  
replacing if the vehicle was to be restored to the required standards  upon return.
Ref: DRN75653772I must also take into account that Bs assessment of the damage was based on an 
inspection of the vehicle. The two estimates provided by Miss R were  simply based on the 
photographs and are, in my opinion, less reliable.  Its also the case that Ive not seen 
evidence that either  of the agents she obtained  these quotes  from were authorised VW 
repair agents. So I agree  with the comment of our investigator that if Miss R  had used either 
of these shed  probably have  ended  up with even greater expense.
Ill deal briefly with other issues which have arisen during the complaint. I understand that 
when she learned  of the cost of repairs Miss R then wanted to keep the vehicle and make 
the balloon payment. I cant  see in the contact  notes with which Ive been  provided where 
this was discussed with VWFS. But even if discussions had taken place, I dont  think  it would 
affect my decision. Miss R had properly exercised her choice to hand back  the vehicle and 
VWFS had acted in accordance with that. It had collected the vehicle  and terminated  the 
agreement and so was under no obligation  to change these arrangements. 
Im also aware that Miss R has indicated she will find it difficult to make  the payments in a 
lump sum. I can see that VWFS is aware of this and has told us that its collection  team  is 
prepared to set up an affordable payment arrangement  if Miss R provides income and 
expenditure details.  Thats a matter  for the respective parties to deal with and I make  no 
finding in this respect.
In summary,  I empathise with Miss R regarding whats happened.  But I dont think VWFS 
has acted unfairly in applying charges in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. Im satisfied  the charges were consistent with the work needed to restore  the 
vehicle to a satisfactory  condition for handing  back.  And that the charges applied were fair 
and reasonable and within the usual range Id have expected.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Miss R but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7565377