K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from National Westminster  Bank Plc 
(NatWest) when he visited a branch on a morning in May 2019. He says he felt intimidated 
and embarrassed  by the bank staffs conduct  towards him, especially as the Police  were  
called. He initially felt NatWest should clear  his overdraft by way of compensation,  although 
later feels  they should simply compensate him.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr H and NatWest so I wont repeat  it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr H went into a NatWest branch and joined a queue of customers waiting to be served. He 
thought there should have been more cashiers on duty as he had to wait for around 
15 minutes. When it was his turn to be served  the cashier left his position returning in a few 
minutes. Mr H said the cashier  didnt  apologise to him and so he asked him why he hadnt,  
to which  the cashier  replied hed been  doing  something else.  
Mr H is unhappy the cashier repeatedly called him mate and he thought the cashier  was 
being sarcastic, which annoyed him, so he told the cashier that the service was atrocious 
and he was a disgrace  to the bank.  He said matters deteriorated to the point a manager 
approached him and asked him to leave. Mr H feels the manager  was intimidating and had 
checked Mr Hs financial status  before  he came  over, and because Mr H didnt have any 
money treated  him unfairly.  Mr C accepts  that a form of argument arose but feels this was 
only in response  to the managers  conduct.
Mr H filmed some of the incident  on his phone, but not the part with the manager or the 
cashier. Whilst Mr H was remonstrating with a bank employee about the way he had been 
treated, the Police attended  and spoke with Mr H, which he found embarrassing.
NatWest rejected Mr Hs complaint. They did obtain  CCTV footage which they sent to this 
service but it has not been viewed because it cannot be opened  as it is not in a compatible  
format. NatWest believe Mr H became aggressive  and started  to shout requiring the 
manager to ask him to calm  down. When he didnt he was asked to leave which  he refused 
to do resulting in the Police being called. As such they do not believe they have done  
anything wrong.
Mr H was unhappy with NatWests response and so the investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think NatWest had acted unfairly. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will consider whether NatWest acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H. I aim to address all relevant points with a view 
to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based  on the evidence before me. 
Ref: DRN74765932So, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. I accept  it would  have been  helpful to view 
the CCTV footage  but that has not been  possible.  I have however  been able to read the 
statement of the manager and Mr Hs comments when he first made  his complaint, and also 
during the complaint process.  Im therefore  satisfied that both sides views of events have 
been adequately presented. 
I have also seen the video evidence Mr H has supplied and which  shows  that he was 
relatively calm, albeit  upset at being  asked  to leave the bank. The footage  demonstrates that 
despite being asked to leave he was not prepared  to do so, and continued to question the 
staff member and raise his objections.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances of the 
case. 
The evidence from both sides does show that Mr H was required to wait in a queue for a 
period of time before he was served.  On Mr Hs own account this appears  to have irritated  
him because  he accepts that when the cashier returned to his position he asked him why he 
didnt apologise.  I cannot see that the cashier  at that point had anything  to apologise for, 
since he was doing his work  and completing  the last task he had been  given. This may have 
irritated the cashier.  
I think it is from this point  that matters started  to deteriorate. I cannot  say for certain whether 
Mr H then started to shout and be aggressive as NatWest say, or whether it was the cashier  
who was being  rude to Mr H, and shouting at him. Mr H does accept that he was rude to the 
cashier and did shout but only in response to the cashiers behaviour.  I have to consider that 
Mr H was clearly  frustrated at being kept waiting for so long, and the cashier  was at work 
dealing with a queue  of customers.  It seems less likely to me that a bank employee would 
suddenly, and for no reason, begin  shouting  and being rude to customers. Such  behaviour is 
likely to result in disciplinary action immediately, and whilst not impossible, it is unlikely.  
So although  I can accept  that Mr H perceives the cashier was shouting and being  rude to 
him I think it unlikely. On balance I prefer NatWests  account of events to that of Mr H. The 
managers statement is clear in that he says he asked Mr H to calm down several times and 
asked him to leave  but he refused. Mr H corroborates that he was asked to leave, and his 
video evidence shows that he didnt. In my view the manager was entitled to make  a 
judgment call on the situation that was unfolding in front of him and asking Mr H to leave was 
a reasonable response. In Mr H refusing to leave, and the Police  being  called, this was an 
appropriate response, and so I cant say the manager has acted unfairly.
Although Mr H will probably be disappointed  with my decision,  I cant  say NatWest  have 
acted unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN74765933Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7476593