K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  didnt  manage  her complaint 
properly when she disputed some payments made  using her debit card.
background
Miss F linked her debit  card to her partners  account with an online payment scheme (who Ill 
call P). In March 2018  she complained  to Halifax that there were a number of transactions  
made to her partners P account  that she disputed. These were  all gambling transactions. 
Halifax turned down Miss Fs fraud  claim. She then complained that the gambling companys 
(who Ill call G) terms and conditions were misleading. She expected Halifax to raise  a 
chargeback request using the card scheme  rules.
It became clear this wasnt  done  until early July 2018. Halifax credited Miss Fs account  with 
£6,500 on 4 July representing  the three disputed payments whilst they started the 
chargeback process  although restricted access to the funds. They didnt believe the 
chargeback had much chance of success. G successfully defended two transactions (for 
£2,000 and £2,500). Halifax re-debited £4,500 from Miss Fs account on 16 August, which 
meant that £2,000 had been credited  back to her.
Miss F felt the delay in raising  the chargeback allowed the gambling company a longer 
period than they should have to respond  to the chargeback. She brought her complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included Halifaxs  information about IP 
addresses and the authentication  record for Miss Fs debit card transactions for March 2018. 
Copies of her statements  for her current and savings accounts  showed regular transfers 
between her two accounts.  This evidenced  sufficient  transfer of funds to allow  the debit card 
to be used for Miss Fs partners P transactions. Overall he didnt think Halifax  had done 
anything wrong. He believed Miss F had authorised the debit card transactions. He didnt 
think there was evidence to show Halifax hadnt  properly  applied the chargeback  rules.  And 
he could see Halifax had paid Miss F a total of £600  for the problems shed had with poor 
customer service.
Miss F disagreed with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman  to consider her complaint. 
Shes not provided any additional evidence to support her argument shed been  treated 
unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
There are a few different  strands to Miss Fs complaint.  She initially complained  to Halifax  
that shed been a victim of fraud and her card used without her authority. She then felt 
Halifax hadnt followed the chargeback rules properly and she believed the customer service  
shed received was poor.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, detail  on the transactions, the IP addresses and how 
the transactions were made were comprehensively  covered  in our investigators view of 
Ref: DRN730829928 November 2019. I dont intend  to repeat everything that was said there. Except  to say Im 
satisfied Ive reviewed  the complaint thoroughly and considered all three aspects carefully.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transactions,  as well 
as what both Halifax and Miss F have  told us.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Miss Fs partner opened  a gambling account with G in March 2018.  More than 20 
payments were made  over a 3-4 day period spending  more than £15,000. There  
were also three  credits from G for £2,500, £10,000  and £5,350 credited back to 
Miss Fs Halifax  account during this period.
P alerted Miss Fs partner to unusual activity on his account. He interpreted  this as 
suggesting his account was hacked. I suspect its more than likely this was just an 
alert to say there was a lot of activity on his account with a lot of money passing 
through it. P werent saying this activity was unauthorised.
All the IP addresses used are consistent. Theres  nothing  to show any of these 
transactions werent authorised by Miss F.
Miss F was regularly transferring money  from her savings to her current account to 
enable her debit  card to be used  to pay her partners P account.
Halifax turned down Miss Fs fraud  claim for transactions to G. I can see why. None 
of the evidence shows she didnt know or authorise  these transactions.
There is a pattern of regular gambling  using her partners  P account both before and 
after these transactions. Miss F had raised a previous fraud  claim in September 2017 
about three transactions with another  gambling  company.
Miss F however did dispute three transactions in March 2018  as outside the 
agreement with G. These were all made on 23 March around 12:15.  Halifax  agreed 
to use the chargeback  scheme to raise  a dispute with G.
Unfortunately they didnt do this when requested. In fact they didnt raise the 
chargeback with G until 5 July. On 4 July to recognise the error theyd made  they 
paid Miss F £400. This was in addition to £100 theyd  paid on 22 May. They  also paid 
her a further £100 by cheque on 18 July.
Theres no evidence to suggest Halifax didnt follow the timescales  that apply to the 
chargeback scheme. These timescales  are not set by Halifax but by the international 
card schemes.
The timescales differ depending on what kind of dispute has been raised and 
whether the service  being bought has been received or will be received  by a future 
date. This covers the initial timescale  for the customer to bring a dispute  to their 
bank. In Miss Fs case, although  Halifax initiated the chargeback later than expected,  
it was still within the period  allowed  for a chargeback to be raised.
Once the chargeback is raised, the merchant (G in this case) has a period during 
which they must respond. Halifax has confirmed this was 32 days. Halifax received 
Gs response on 4 August: within the timescale. 
Ref: DRN73082993Miss F has suggested G benefitted  by having  an extended period in which to 
respond. This isnt the case.  G wouldnt have known about  the chargeback until after 
Halifax initiated this on 5 July.  
Miss F is upset that the money  credited  back  to her account on 4 July wasnt 
available for her use. There were personal issues in her life which meant she was 
reliant on this money and it caused  her distress  not being able to use it.
Halifax restricted Miss Fs access to the refund as they didnt really  believe the 
chargeback would be successful. As a lot of money was involved they didnt want 
Miss F to have  spent  it before knowing for sure she was getting  it back. In the 
circumstances this seems to have been a sensible approach.
As it is G didnt defend all three transactions and Miss F got to keep  £2,000. I 
suspect this may have  been  an error  on Gs part.
Having taken everything into consideration, Im not going to ask Halifax  to do anything  
further. Theres no dispute they made a mistake  in not carrying out the chargeback in May 
but I dont think  this had any impact  on the eventual outcome of the dispute process.
Halifax paid Miss F £400 for this issue and £200  for other customer  service aspects. I think 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint against  Lloyds  
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7308299