K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS), trading as Chelsea Building Society at 
the time,  mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019 setting out why I didnt think  the policy was 
mis-sold when it was taken out in 2004  and when it was amended  in 2008. Ive attached my 
provisional decision below which forms part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs B responded with some comments.  In summary these are: 
The policy was not sold in 2004  alongside their mortgage, their mortgage with YBS 
was sold in 2003;
When the policy was sold to them Mr B informed YBS that he was contemplating 
self-employment and was told the policy  would  be suitable  for him whether he was 
employed or self-employed. He then became self-employed in 2005; 
Mr and Mrs B felt pressured into taking out the policy  as Mr B was facing potential 
self-employment in the future,  and they were  offered a 60 day free trial period  which  
they felt they had to decide  about  there  and then;
Mr and Mrs B dispute YBSs version of the events from 2008 and say that if they had 
been informed  about the exclusions relating  to self-employed persons making a claim 
then they wouldve  refused the cover. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI as set 
out on our website and Mr and Mrs Bs additional  comments. 
I still dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say the policy was not sold in 2004 alongside their mortgage  and that the 
mortgage was actually taken out in 2003. I agree with this however, the PPI was sold 
alongside their mortgage as this was the credit the PPI was sold to cover.  And Ive referred  
to the sale of the PPI being  taken  out over the phone after the mortgage had been arranged  
in my provisional decision.  
Mr and Mrs B say that when the mortgage  was sold to them  Mr B was contemplating self-
employment. But my decision is about whether Mr B was mis-sold the PPI based  on his 
circumstances at the time. As this was a non-advised sale YBS didnt  have to ensure the 
policy was suitable  for Mr B at the point of sale or in the future. But, as outlined  in my 
provisional decision, YBS did have to give them the information to decide  if the policy was 
right for them. And even  though I thought  YBS couldve  done  more to satisfy  this 
requirement  I dont think this made a difference to Mr and Mrs Bs decision to take out the 
PPI based on their circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN76583132Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B have  said about  relying on the information,  or lack of it, 
when the PPI was sold and when  Mr B subsequently became self-employed. But Ive looked 
at the letter  Mr and Mrs B were sent following the call with YBS in 2004  and a copy  of the 
payment protection schedule which was listed as included with the letter. This schedule 
clearly states:
If you have  any queries  regarding your policy, you wish to make a claim or there are any 
changes to your circumstances please  contact  the scheme administration 
It then goes on to ask self-employed persons to pay particular attention to the relevant 
sections of the policy document which they would be effected by. So I think  it was clear that 
it was Mr Bs responsibility to inform  the insurers of any changes  to his personal  
circumstances and that there were special provisions in the policy document  which apply to 
self-employed persons. 
Mr and Mrs B say they felt pressured into taking out the policy  because  the PPI was offered 
free for an initial period  and they had to make the decision about taking the policy  there and 
then. But Mr and Mrs B answered this call, and were free to ask the YBS sales person to call 
back another time. While  I accept  that Mr and Mrs B may have felt pressured to make  a 
decision quickly, Ive not seen any evidence that the pressure they felt amounted to pressure 
to say yes to the PPI. And the policy was free until March 2005  so they couldve cancelled 
the policy any time before this without paying  anything for it if, they later decided  they didnt 
actually want it.
Mr and Mrs B dispute that YBS informed them  of the exclusions relating  to self-employed 
persons. YBS says it did. While I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs B have  said are their honest 
recollections of the sale, I have to consider all the evidence available  to decided  what  is 
more likely to have  happened.  As Ive explained  I have  seen  some  notes from the call  and 
in the absence of a call recording this is the best evidence available of what happened at the 
time.  
As Ive outlined in my provisional decision,  the call notes from this conversation  recorded  
that Mr B was self-employed, and that the policys exclusions and conditions  around self-
employed persons  were  explained to him at the time. Ive looked at the wording which  YBS 
says its sales person wouldve read out at the time and I am satisfied that this information is 
clear. Without hearing a call recording I cant say exactly what was said, but I think  its more 
likely than not that the call notes reflect what was discussed at the time. 
So Mr and Mrs Bs comments  dont change  my decision, and I still think the policy  wasnt  
mis-sold in 2004 or 2008. But, as outlined in my provisional decision, YBS will pay back to 
Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month  because the commission and profit share it got 
was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple  
interest on each payment.   
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision and those  above,  I dont think  the policy  
was mis-sold so Yorkshire  Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN76583133But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading as Chelsea Building Society, mis-sold  
them the PPI.
background
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 2004 alongside  a 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN76583134In 2008 Mr and Mrs B made an amendment to their policy and at this time the policy was discussed  
and their circumstances were considered by YBS.  So Ive also considered  what  happened in 2008 
when the policy was amended.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold in 2004  so he didnt uphold this part of the 
complaint. But he did uphold on the mis-sale complaint from 2008 onwards. YBS disagreed with the 
adjudicators outcome, so this complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
sale of the policy in 2004
I dont think the policy was mis-sold in 2004  and Ill explain why.
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed since the PPI was sold, theres no call recording 
for me to listen to, so I dont know exactly what was said. Mr and Mrs B say that during the call they 
were pressured into taking  out the policy but they havent told us what was said that made  them feel 
pressured. And I havent seen any other evidence that YBS were  using pressured  sales tactics at the 
time. Ive also considered that the sale took place around 15 years ago, which is something I have to 
keep in mind  when deciding what I think is more  likely to have happened.
The PPI was taken out after Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was approved, so they wouldve known that 
refusing the policy wouldnt  have had an effect on their mortgage application. And the PPI was taken  
out in Mr Bs name only, which suggests that a discussion  took place about the level of cover needed  
where Mr and Mrs B decided the policy would be useful for Mr B only.  So from the evidence  Ive seen, 
I cant  fairly and reasonably  conclude that Mr and Mrs B were pressured into taking out the PPI. 
Instead I think  YBS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to  although I can understand why they cant remember this now.
Our adjudicator assessed  this case as a non-advised  sale and neither  party  responded to dispute this. 
So Ive also considered  this as a non-advised  sale. This means YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B 
got the information  they needed to decide if the policy was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So Ive considered  Mr Bs circumstances  from the time to see if this wouldve  made a difference  
to his decision to take out the policy. Mr B says he was self-employed from June 2003 onwards, and 
Ive seen from the call notes completed for a call in 2008 that he had said he was a self-employed at 
that time. But Ive also seen  a copy  of the call notes  from 2004 which  YBS says was completed during  
this call  and Ive not seen any persuasive reason to doubt this. In this there is a question which asks 
if Mr B is self-employed, which was answered  no. So as this evidence is dated  around the time of the 
call Ive relied on this evidence to conclude  that I think its more likely Mr B wasnt self-employed at 
the time the PPI was sold to him in 2004.
So based on this and what else Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover,  so I dont think Mr and Mrs B 
lost out as a result of anything  YBS may have done wrong.
Ref: DRN76583135amendment to the policy in 2008
In 2008 Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance with YBS, and a few months after this their policy  
was amended  to cover  their additional borrowing.  Mr and Mrs B say they dont have any recollection 
of speaking to YBS at this time. But Ive seen a copy of the call notes which  YBS says were 
completed during  the call, and also a copy of a PPI schedule which was sent to Mr and Mrs B 
following the amendments  to their policy. And I think they wouldve questioned this at the time if they 
hadnt agreed  to these  changes.  So I think a call did take place and I think  its likely  Mr and Mrs B 
chose to amend their policy, knowing they didnt have to.
YBS says that no recommendation was given to Mr and Mrs B during this call, and our adjudicator  
agreed when first looking at this complaint. Again, neither party disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment on this point, so Ive also considered  this as a non-advised  sale.
At the time of the amendment Mr B was self-employed.  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the 
policy in place  at the time and Ive seen  that it wouldve been  more difficult for a self-employed person  
to make a claim than an employed  person. Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on this point 
because he felt that this term hadnt been drawn to Mr and Mrs Bs attention during the time of the 
amendment, and that if it had, they wouldnt have decided to continue with the PPI.
Ive looked at the evidence provided  in response to the adjudicators initial assessment. YBS says that 
its sales person  wouldve read out the exclusions relating to self-employed  persons during the call, 
and as this was a non-advised sale, it was then Mr B and Mrs Bs decision as to whether  they wanted 
to continue with the PPI at this point. Looking at the copy of the call notes from this conversation I can 
see that a box was ticked  to show Mr B was self-employed at the time, and another box was ticked to 
confirm that the policys  exclusions and conditions  around self-employed persons were  explained to 
him over the phone.
Ive also looked at the wording which YBS says its sales person wouldve  read out at the time and I 
am satisfied  that this information is clear. So while I dont have a call recording to of this call to listen 
to, Im satisfied that from the evidence  Ive seen its more  likely than not that the conditions  relating to 
self-employed persons  were drawn  to Mr Bs attention during the sale - and Mr and Mrs B made the 
decision to continue with the policy  and to increase the benefit amount. Ive also considered Mr Bs 
other circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the other exclusions  to 
or limits on the PPI cover  at this point. So it wouldve been useful for him and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B in 2004 or when they amended the policy  
in 2008. This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra interest they paid because 
of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra they paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* 
simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN76583136my provisional  decision
At this stage I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Yorkshire Building  
Society to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But I do intend to tell Yorkshire  Building Society to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I now invite  both parties to respond  by 3 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7658313