K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  didnt explain its early 
repayment charge  before  it credit  checked his application.
background
When Mr B applied  for a loan, using NatWests mobile app, he wasnt  told about the charge 
of 58 days interest that would be applied if he repaid the loan early. This information  was 
only highlighted after credit scoring had been completed and Mr B says that if hed known 
about the charges he wouldnt have proceeded with his application. He said it was always 
his intention to pay the loan off early and, as a credit check  had been  already been 
completed before he realised it wasnt the loan he wanted, it may have impacted on his 
ability to get alternative  loans  with other  suppliers  as his application to NatWest would have 
been recorded on his credit file.
NatWest didnt agree with Mr B. They said that they provided the terms and conditions of the 
account after the credit check  had been  performed and the early  repayment fees were 
detailed in these  terms. So Mr B wouldve had to confirm hed agreed with them before the 
loan could be set up. They explained that they had to take a view as to how much 
information they displayed on their mobile app and whilst they had decided this information  
wasnt relevant to all applicants they would  pass on Mr Bs feedback to other departments  so 
they could review whether to display this information in the future.
Mr B was disappointed with NatWests  response  so he referred his complaint  to this service  
and our adjudicator  provided his view on the matter.  He thought  NatWests  approach  had 
been reasonable. He understood that there was limited space to display information in a 
mobile app and NatWest  had to make a decision about what  would be displayed. He didnt 
think he could interfere  in that decision as he thought  it was an operational one that NatWest 
were free to make. He noted that Mr B had been given a 14 day cooling off period in which 
he could have withdrawn  from the agreement and he went  on to explain that, whilst he 
understood Mr B had explained he wouldnt have proceeded with his application  if hed 
known about the early  repayment charges, these charges were common in these types  of 
loan agreement. So he didnt think NatWest needed to take any further  action.
But Mr B did. He said the credit checks performed by NatWest may well have reduced  his 
ability to get an alternative  loan if hed not proceeded with the one theyd advanced. And he 
noted that NatWest  had now changed  their practice  and were  notifying potential customers 
of the early repayment  charges. So he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN70493092Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about, it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome.
There is limited  space  on a mobile  app to display all of the terms and conditions that might 
impact on a consumers decision to sign up for a loan. I can therefore  understand that 
NatWest would have  had an operational decision to make about  what had to be displayed 
before credit  checking customers. They wouldve wanted to show  critical information such as 
the loan amount and APR, but I think it was fair of them to take a view on other  criteria.
Mr B was given an opportunity to review the full terms and conditions before he accepted the 
loan, so I dont  think it was misrepresented to him. He also had the option to cancel it within 
the 14 day cooling off period if he subsequently decided it wasnt  what  he wanted.
Ive thought about whether it was unfair  to credit  check  Mr B before NatWest  explained the 
early repayment charges,  but I dont think it was. Mr B says this may have impacted on 
alternative applications but I cant  be sure it would have and it would be unreasonable  to 
suggest NatWest should  compensate him for that, as he didnt in fact make any other 
applications and theres been  no evidence of any detrimental effect  on his credit  score.  
Early repayment  charges  are a feature of these  sorts of loans and Mr B couldve expected to 
find them  on other agreements he found  elsewhere.  So Im not persuaded that he would 
necessarily have gone elsewhere  for his loan if hed been shown the charges  pre-credit  
check, and I dont think NatWest has acted unreasonably by not displaying the information 
until a credit check was completed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7049309