K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that when  he uses his credit card to rent a car while  abroad  hes charged in 
Euros and has to pay a poor exchange  rate when its converted  to Sterling by 
Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax). 
background
Mr B says that when  he rents a car whilst abroad the merchant  debits his credit card for the 
deposit in Euros. When the deposit is returned, the funds are returned in Euros  but the 
exchange rate is worse.  Mr B says this happens regularly and he recently lost around  £150 
because of the way his transactions  have been processed.  
Mr B raised a complaint and asked Halifax  to refund the difference  between what  he paid 
and the refund he received. But Halifax didnt agree and said it had offered to raise a 
chargeback dispute  with the merchant. Mr B didnt want a chargeback dispute to be raised 
as hes concerned it will impact his ability to rent a car in the future. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. The investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint as they felt Halifax had dealt with Mr B fairly. Mr B asked to 
appeal so his complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand why Mr B is annoyed.  Hes told us that when his deposit  is refunded  by a 
car hire company he loses out on the exchange  rate. But, for the purposes  of this complaint, 
I can only look at what Halifax has done  and whether its treated Mr B fairly. 
As an example of the transactions  involved,  Ive seen statements from February and 
March 2019. On 20 February 2019  Mr B was charged £1,397.43 by the car hire company. 
On 9 March 2019 a payment of €1,488  was received  by Halifax  and converted to £1,285.58. 
I can see there was a difference between the two figures and Mr B says hes lost out 
because of the way his transactions  were handled. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B as I can see he received less back from the merchant. But 
Halifax was asked to make a payment of £1,379.43 on 20 February 2019, which it did. On 
9 March 2019 Halifax received a payment of €1,488 from the car hire company and applied  
the exchange rate applicable that day. I appreciate Mr B says that hes been  penalised  
because of the different currencies involved but thats not something Halifax  has any control  
over. When  it received  funds for Mr Bs account  in Euros it had to convert them to Sterling in 
order to apply them. Im satisfied that Halifax  made the payment and applied the funds it 
received back in line with its instructions and no error was made. 
Ref: DRN76697712Mr B has said that Halifax should  be able to help him with this situation. Hes told Halifax he 
doesnt want to raise chargeback dispute  because it could  impact whether hes able to rent a 
car in the future. But the chargeback system  is the option card providers have where a 
customer disputes the services provided by a merchant. Outside of the chargeback  scheme, 
Halifax has no way to dispute what happened  or get Mr B a refund  of the amount he feels 
hes lost. Halifax has no way to force a third party business to change the way it operates 
and acts on the instructions it receives  when  making and receiving payments. Whilst I dont 
doubt Mr Bs concerns,  I havent  found  any evidence that Halifax  has acted unfairly of failed 
to offer him reasonable assistance.  
Mr B recently told us that he doesnt think he should have to contact Halifax to resolve 
problems each time he rents a car and returns from abroad.  But, as Ive said, Halifax  can 
only act on the instructions  it receives. If he asks it to make a payment to the car hire 
company it will do so. If the car hire company then returns funds to Halifax  in a different 
currency, Halifax will convert them to Sterling at the rate applicable on that day. 
As I havent  found  anything to show Halifax made a mistake or treated Mr B unfairly Im not 
telling it take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7669771