K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  wont grant him a new 
mortgage without  credit checks and a full assessment of the affordability.  He says he only 
sold his property after he received an email that says these wouldnt be needed.
background
Mr M had a mortgage with RBS.  Theres a long background  that I wont  go into here as it 
could be identifying when  this decision is published. Suffice to say Ive read and understood 
everything thats gone before.
In April 2018 Mr M told us hed accepted an offer on his property,  and the sale eventually 
completed in October 2018. In September 2018  RBS emailed a redemption  statement to 
Mr M and as part of the covering email it contained  some wording that is at the centre  of this 
dispute. The email  said:
Dear Customer
Please find attached a mortgage redemption statement.
Thanks for having  your mortgage  with us, and we would  love for you to stay.  Before  
repaying your mortgage, and to help you make a fully informed  decision,  we would like to 
take this opportunity to provide you with some information that may be of help. 
If you are interested  in a new mortgage rate because your current deal is coming to an 
end, our commitment is that if you choose a new deal, well give you the same rates 
offered to new customers who move their mortgage to us from another  provider. Plus, 
because we already know  you, we wont need  to carry  out new credit checks  or ask for 
proof of salary if youre  keeping your mortgage amount, term and repayment the same. If 
you are interested,  please call us on the telephone number above,  or check online at 
www.rbs.com.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she felt RBS hadnt promised Mr M that it 
would grant  him a new mortgage. Mr M didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  
Ive not considered it but because I dont  think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the 
right outcome. 
Mr M had already agreed to the sale of his property in April 2018  - and the marketing photos 
for that sale seem to show a property that was unfurnished and not currently  being lived in  
so it seems Mr M wasnt  relying on an email  he was sent some  five months later (in 
September 2018) as the reason  he sold his property.
Ref: DRN76479062In any event that email  doesnt say what Mr M thinks it does. The email  made  no promises of 
a new mortgage  if Mr M chose to move  house,  pay his existing mortgage off and wanted a 
new mortgage on a new property. Instead  it says If you are interested in a new mortgage 
rate because your current deal is coming  to an end  as the circumstances in which RBS 
wouldnt need to carry out new credit checks or ask for proof of salary. Its clear from this 
that the only circumstances in which RBS would waive those  checks is if Mr M simply 
wanted to take a new interest rate product for his existing mortgage. Theres  absolutely no 
implication that the same  agreement would be made for an entirely new mortgage Mr M 
might want  to take on a new property  he might want to buy.
I cant hold RBS liable for Mr Ms choice  to repay  his mortgage and incur an early repayment 
charge as Im satisfied  it didnt mislead him into thinking hed be automatically eligible for a 
new mortgage on a new property without any formal checks.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7647906