K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the service provided by Fluent Mortgages  Limited  when she asked 
for advice  about  re-financing  her interest only mortgage. Mrs K asks for compensation. 
background
In early 2019 Mrs K wanted to re-mortgage  and asked Fluent Mortgages for advice.  Mrs K 
says she was clear that she wanted an interest  only mortgage. Mrs K says there were failed 
applications and then she received an offer for a repayment mortgage. 
Mrs K says she feels stressed with the way shes been treated and felt bullied  to accept a 
repayment mortgage which doesnt  suit her needs.  Due to the delays she went  onto her 
lenders standard  variable  rate and her monthly  payments increased significantly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said Fluent  Mortgages  
adviser said at the outset  he couldnt guarantee to get her an interest only mortgage due to 
the high criteria. He told Mrs K it was unlikely a mortgage would be in place before her 
product ended. And he applied to three  lenders on Mrs Ks behalf, but she didnt meet their 
criteria for an interest only mortgage.  Our investigator didnt think Fluent Mortgages had tried 
to bully Mrs K to accept a repayment mortgage. The adviser had told her it was the only offer 
available. 
Mrs K didnt agree, and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
In early January  2019 Mrs K contacted Fluent Mortgages. She said shed tried to sell her 
property but the sale had fallen through. She told the broker  her product ended in late 
January and she wanted an interest only portable  mortgage. She intended  to repay her 
existing mortgage  (about £322,000) and a secured loan (about  £25,000).  
Fluent Mortgages approached three  lenders. The first had recently changed its lending 
criteria and couldnt help Mrs K. The second lender issued a decision in principle  and Fluent 
Mortgages made an application  on Mrs Ks behalf on 21 January 2020. After  reviewing  
evidence of Mrs Ks income,  the lender said it would only offer £289,000. 
Fluent Mortgages applied to a third lender. After reviewing Mrs Ks income  the lender said 
she didnt meet its criteria for an interest  only mortgage. It offered a mortgage on a capital 
repayment basis, which wasnt what Mrs K wanted.  Mrs K didnt accept the offer.
Mrs K asked Fluent Mortgages  to look for another lender. Fluent Mortgages said it couldnt 
find another lender that met Mrs Ks criteria.   
Ref: DRN75435642Mrs K was disappointed that Fluent  Mortgages couldnt get an interest  only mortgage for her. 
But I dont think Fluent Mortgages misled  Mrs K about being  able to get her an interest only 
mortgage. It told her at the outset that lenders have strict  criteria, such  as about the amount 
of equity and loan to value, and it couldnt  guarantee getting  her an interest only mortgage. 
Mrs Ks income included bonuses and benefits  in kind,  and the way the lenders treated 
these meant  Mrs K didnt  meet their income thresholds for an interest  only mortgage. I 
understand this is frustrating, but this isnt something Fluent Mortgages can change.
Fluent Mortgages also said at the outset it was unlikely a new mortgage would be in place by 
the time Mrs Ks product  ended. 
The third lender sent an offer for a repayment  mortgage. This wasnt what Mrs K wanted and 
I understand she was disappointed. It would have been better if Fluent Mortgages had 
checked the offer before it sent it to her so it could have told her the offer was for a 
repayment mortgage. But it wouldnt have changed the outcome in any significant  way  
Mrs K didnt meet the lenders criteria for an interest  only mortgage and so this wasnt on 
offer.
Ive listened to recordings of Mrs Ks calls with the broker, including the call when the broker  
told her he didnt think hed be able to get her a portable interest only mortgage  given  the 
way many lenders  would assess her bonus income.  I understand Mrs K was disappointed. 
But I dont think Fluent Mortgages acted unreasonably or put pressure on her to take out a 
repayment mortgage. 
Mrs K says she didnt apply for a new product with her existing lender as she expected 
Fluent Mortgages to find a mortgage  for her. She says she hasnt applied for a product since 
as the rate shed have applied for is no longer available. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Fluent  Mortgages  to pay compensation for 
Mrs K being  on her lenders standard  variable rate. It didnt promise  to find her an interest  
only mortgage by a certain date  or at all. Its for Mrs K to decide whether to take out a new 
product with her existing  lender or to continue  to look for an interest only mortgage  
elsewhere. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7543564