K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr W took out with a loan in 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr W but I dont  think  it was right for him. Mr W had a 
medical condition  when he bought the policy which wouldnt have been covered. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mr W would have been able to make  a successful 
claim for his condition. I think Mr W wouldve seen this condition as a likely reason he might 
want to make a claim under the policy. I dont think  Mr W wouldve  bought  this policy  if hed 
understood that he wouldnt  be able to claim for it. So I think hes lost out because of what 
Barclays did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
putting things right
Mr W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been  and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr W needs to get back  the extra  he paid. 
So, Barclays  should:
Work  out and pay Mr W the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr W paid each  month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN74313022my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431302