K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a van he has been  financing through an agreement with Close  Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers)  is not of satisfactory quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision in February 2020.  I explained why I was planning to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint but only in part. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr C took receipt of a used van in November 2018.  He financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the van was over ten 
years old and had already  completed 134,700  miles.
In December 2018 he took the van back to the dealership. He reported problems with the 
injectors and said the van was stuttering.  He also complained about  a grinding noise and 
said there was oil in the engine  compartment.
The dealership completed some  repairs  but in late December Mr C contacted Close 
Brothers. He said the repairs hadnt worked and he provided reports  from two garages  that 
listed similar  issues that he said were still problematic.
Close Brothers organised  an independent inspection of the van. The independent inspector 
noted:
engine tick over was slightly uneven when the engine was hot;
there was a slight oil leak on the cylinder  head;
there were no engine fault codes;
the driveshaft  gaiter had split.
The inspector thought  the gaiter was probably  deteriorating when the van was supplied to 
Mr C but he didnt think there was evidence of other  problems. He thought the slight oil leak 
and engine tick over unevenness  could  be expected  on a vehicle of this age and mileage.
So Close Brothers  offered  to repair the gaiter but they didnt think  there was evidence  other  
work was required or that anything else was wrong  with the van at the point of supply:  when 
said they were responsible for the quality of the vehicle.
Mr C wasnt happy with their response. He took the van to one of the manufacturers 
dealerships and they provided a report.  They noted:
there was oil all around the engine.  They suggested replacing the rocker cover 
gasket;
there was an uneven tick over but no engine fault codes present. They  suggested 
checking the compression and the cam/rockers;
there was rattling from the air filter.  They suggested a new element was needed  to 
hold in the diffuser.
the gaiter on the driveshaft was split.
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided  his opinion. He 
thought the problems Mr C had highlighted  were most probably present  when  he took receipt  
of the van as he noted hed only been  able to cover about 1,650  miles. He asked the 
Ref: DRN71355742independent inspector to comment on the main  dealerships report  but he was disappointed 
that they didnt  elaborate any further. He thought it was clear the rocker cover gasket needed 
replacing and he thought  it would  be fair to ask Close Brothers to repair all the issues noted 
by the main dealership apart  from those related to tyres and brakes which  he thought were  
clearly wear and tear related.
Close Brothers didnt  accept the investigators suggestions. They  said dealerships  often 
overstate issues and some problems  were to be expected on a van that had covered nearly  
140,000 miles. They could not understand why the investigator hadnt  put more  weight on 
the independent inspectors opinion as the inspector was extremely experienced and truly 
independent. They therefore asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with the investigators  view and Im currently  expecting to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint only in part. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the van, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr C. The van 
here was around  ten years old and had travelled  134,700 miles. So I think its reasonable to 
expect some problems with a vehicle of this age and mileage and a reasonable person 
would expect quite  a bit of wear  and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the van was faulty when supplied and this fault made it not of satisfactory quality, Id 
think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers  to put this right. 
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a van developed a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
Ref: DRN71355743goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Close Brothers have accepted  they are responsible for fixing the driveshaft gaiter. So Ive 
considered what  other issues  Mr C has had identified that may require rectification. 
According to the latest report from the main  dealership they are:
investigation into an uneven tick over;
rectification of an oil leak which may be resolved by replacing  the rocker  cover 
gasket;
replacement of a noisy  heater;
a new element fitting to retain  the air filter diffuser.
I think, regardless of the age and mileage this van had completed, Mr C would have a 
reasonable expectation that the engine would work properly.  I dont think  a reasonable 
person would consider a stuttering engine to be acceptable. The independent inspector also 
noted that the engine  tick over was uneven. There appear to be no fault codes being created  
by this problem  so it may not be a significant issue. But I think Close  Brothers should 
investigate and repair the problem as Im persuaded, after just a month and only limited 
mileage, it was most probably present from the start.
I think its fair to say that a limited oil leak could be expected on a vehicle of this age and 
mileage. The main dealer report suggests oil is all over the engine  compartment but that 
doesnt in itself demonstrate there  is a significant leak as the oil could have been building up 
for a long time.  Im persuaded by the independent inspectors report that the leak is most 
probably minimal and I dont think it would be fair to suggest this is something 
Close Brothers are responsible for because I think  it can be considered fair wear and tear. 
However; it seems clear that when Close Brothers have the uneven engine  tick over rectified 
they will have to remove the rocker cover  and I think its reasonable to suggest  it would not 
be difficult to replace the rocker cover gasket at that point. Given  the inconvenience caused  
to Mr C I think it would be fair and reasonable to ask them  to do this at no cost to Mr C.
Im not persuaded that the heater replacement is Close Brothers responsibility. It wasnt  
noted in the first garage assessment Mr C had completed or when he returned the van for 
inspection after the dealership completed  repairs. The independent  inspector noted  the fan 
emitted normal levels of noise at all speeds so I dont think  it would  be fair to suggest  there  
was a fault at the point of supply and, even if there was and there was some wear in the 
motor, I think that could reasonably be considered normal wear and tear in a van of this age.
Similarly, I think the rattling from the air filter housing is most  likely to be related to fair wear  
and tear. The independent  inspector  didnt identify a fault but the main dealership have 
suggested a replacement element to keep the diffuser in place. I note that this doesnt 
appear to be a particularly expensive replacement  but I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Close Brothers responsible.
Im not persuaded there are any other  faults  with the van. The issues Ive covered above are 
the only ones  mentioned  in the recent main dealership inspection and there are no others 
highlighted by the independent  inspector.
Ref: DRN71355744It is clear that Mr C has been inconvenienced by these matters.  Hes had to wait a long time 
for a decision which  could have been made  earlier and hes had to get several other  
opinions to support  a complaint that I havent  found  lacked merit. I think Close  Brothers 
should compensate  Mr C for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced and, in the 
circumstances, I think  £150  is reasonable.
It appears that Mr C has had little use of the van since it developed faults. He confirmed the 
mileage was 136,851 in October of 2019  and that means hes only completed 2,151  miles 
since inception of the finance;  and only 37 miles since  the independent inspection  in 
February. Its clear the problems that have been  unresolved have caused him to lose faith in 
the van and, in those circumstances; I think Close Brothers should compensate him for his 
lack of use. The investigator  suggested, in his written view of 1 October 2019, that five 
monthly finance instalments should  be returned. Id agree but would also ask Close Brothers  
to return any instalments paid since October  2019 and to the date of settlement as its clear  
the van is not being used  because of the faults  that remain unresolved.
Close Brothers should also refund the costs  of the diagnostic reports  Mr C has had to 
commission on 4 January; 8 February  and 4 March  2019 as these were required in order  to 
support Mr Cs claim.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell 
Close Brothers Limited to:
investigate and repair the source  of the uneven engine running;
replace the rocker  cover seal;
repair the driveshaft  gaiter and any deterioration to the joint;
pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund  five monthly instalments  for lack of use prior to October 2019 and add 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  all instalments  that have been paid since, and including,  October 2019 and 
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund  the cost of the reports Mr C has had completed on 4 January, 8 February and 
4 March 2019 when supplied with the receipts by Mr C.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business didnt  respond to my provisional  decision but Mr C did. He explained  that hed 
had some associated  costs to pay with regard to tax, insurance and storage but was 
prepared to overlook  these  as hed prefer to have the decision dealt  with quickly.
So Ive not seen any reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN71355745For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and to tell Close  Brothers 
Limited to:
investigate and repair the source  of the uneven engine running;
replace the rocker  cover seal;
repair the driveshaft  gaiter and any deterioration to the joint;
pay Mr C £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund  five monthly instalments  for lack of use prior to October 2019 and add 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  all instalments  that have been paid since, and including,  October 2019 and 
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
refund  the cost of the reports Mr C has had completed on 4 January, 8 February and 
4 March 2019 when supplied with the receipts by Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135574