K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in 1996. At the same  time she bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on her account on her card if she wasnt able to work.
Mrs C says she didnt know PPI had been  added to the card.  She says it was added without 
her knowledge  or consent. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs C disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
FICL has provided a copy of the application  form Mrs C completed  to take out the card. 
Theres a separate  section for PPI which makes  clear that the insurance  is optional. Mrs C 
ticked the box to indicate  she wanted it, and she signed the whole  form.
The form was a single page of A4 and I think  the information on it was clear. I think  Mrs C 
took the PPI knowing it was optional, although  I understand  why she doesnt  remember  
doing this so many years  later.  
Since the adjudicator gave their view Mrs C has said that sales  staff would have  used the 
tactic of telling a customer to tick here, here and here and sign here to mislead them into 
taking the PPI. But Mrs C told this service that she doesnt remember  anything  from the sale 
of the store  card, so I dont think Mrs C is suggesting with any certainty that this is what  
happened to her.
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mrs C about the PPI so it didnt need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it 
gave her all the information  she needed  to make her own decision. I dont think FICL did this 
well enough. For example, theres  no mention  of what the exact benefits or costs were.  
But looking  at Mrs Cs circumstances I dont think more information  wouldve changed  her 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mrs C understood the policy  would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mrs C chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN76560102It doesnt look like Mrs C was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs 
C.
Mrs C  says she wasnt entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer. The 
policy wouldve covered  her repayments  until she was able to return  to work, so I think  it was 
useful for her and I dont  think  she wouldve changed her mind  about taking the policy  if 
shed understood  it better. 
Mrs C says her spouse wouldve helped her if she wasnt working, and Im sure this wouldve 
been true. But other peoples circumstances can change too, so the help couldnt be 
guaranteed. And if Mrs C wasnt working I think the drop in household income wouldve had 
a significant effect  on their overall finances. 
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mrs Cs entire  balance  
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mrs C wouldve still bought  the policy if shed  understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656010