K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1998 and 
2006 to protect  a mortgage. Mr F says Bank  of Scotland trading as Halifax  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
The policy Mr F took out in 2006  was a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can 
be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr F only took the PPI section  of the cover so Ive looked at the sale of 
the PPI cover only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr F aware that the PPI policies were optional  and gain his consent 
before adding them to his mortgage. 
I cant be certain what was said at the time each policy was sold. But Halifax  has sent us a 
copy of the available paperwork.  For the sale of the policy in 1998 Mr F signed  an 
application form to take the PPI which was separate to his mortgage application. So I think 
he would  have known  the policy was separate to his mortgage and I think he chose to have 
it.
There isnt much paperwork  available  from the sale of the policy in 2006, but from what we 
know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think  its likely Halifax would 
have presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr Fs consent before adding  it to his 
mortgage.
So overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI policies and 
that he chose  to take them out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr F so it had to check they were right for him. 
Mr F has told us that at the time he was sold the PPI policy in 1998 he would have been 
entitled to sick pay from his employer. Mr F has also told us that in 2006 he would have  been  
entitled to sick pay, had some savings and an endowment.  But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Fs sick pay and for longer. It would also have paid out in circumstances  
that his endowment wouldnt have  and protected his savings so they could be used towards  
other expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Fs circumstances at the time he took each  policy, he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN75639732Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take them out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI policies to Mr F.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7563973