K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Mrs C complain  that The Mortgage  Business Plc (TMB) didnt extend  the term of 
their interest only mortgage as theyd understood and that when they repaid the mortgage, 
the balance had increased,  even  though  theyd  paid what TMB told them to. 
background
Mr P and Mrs C had a mortgage with TMB. They switched it to interest only in 2009.  The 
term ended  in 2013. 
Mr P and Mrs C say that their understanding was that TMB had agreed to extend the term of 
their mortgage until they were in a position to repay  the balance. They continued to make the 
payment they believed  was due. But they have  later found out that the balance  of the 
mortgage had gone up by over £2,000.  They  say that TMB never  told them  they needed to 
increase their payments. And that TMB  has unfairly threatened them  with legal action. They  
have now repaid the mortgage.
Our investigator said that she wasnt persuaded that TMB had agreed a term extension in 
2014  and pointed out we couldnt  look at a complaint about that decision as TMB had 
issued a final response letter about it more  than six months before the complaint  was 
referred to us. 
The investigator explained that the mortgage  balance had gone up because  the interest  rate 
applicable to the mortgage had increased,  but Mr P and Mrs Cs monthly payment hadnt 
increased accordingly. So they had been paying too little to their mortgage. The investigator 
thought that TMB should have told Mr P and Mrs C what  they should  be paying. So she 
proposed that TMB  should pay the difference between  what  Mr P and Mrs C paid to redeem  
the mortgage and what they would have paid had they increased  their payments.
TMB responded to make a number  of points, including:
The contract as ended so there was no contractual  monthly payment due  in fact, under 
the contract the only payment due was the whole balance.
Mr P and Mrs C changed to interest only as their income had reduced.  So they may not 
have been in a position to make the increased payments.
If Mr P and Mrs C had repaid  the mortgage  when they were asked to the balance  would 
not have increased.
If we uphold this complaint  we would be rewarding these customers  for deliberately  
flouting the contract  and avoiding repaying the debt.  They have benefitted from a 
longer term that TMB had not agreed  to.
Mr P and Mrs Cs representative responded to re-emphasise his position that TMB had 
agreed to extend  the term of Mr P and Mrs Cs mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including Mr P and Mrs Cs 
representatives latest submission.
Ref: DRN73759082term extension
Ive looked carefully  at all of the information provided by Mr P and Mrs Cs representative. It 
does show that extending the term of the mortgage was discussed  with TMB (and that it may 
at times have indicated  that it would look positively on an application). But I dont consider it 
shows that a term extension was ever formally  agreed.  Mr P and Mrs C have not produced 
any document from TMB that shows that the term of their mortgage was extended. And I 
would usually expect  to see a mortgage offer or other paperwork showing the extended 
term.
TMBs own records  do not show that the term of the mortgage had been  extended.  Looking  
at all of the evidence we have, I consider it less likely on balance  that a term extension was 
formally agreed by TMB.
I note that Mr P and Mrs Cs representative  complained to TMB  on their behalf  about the 
decision not to extend the term of the mortgage   and TMB issued  its final response to that 
complaint on 24 November 2014.  So I cant see up to that point how they reasonably  could 
have understood  that a term extension had been  approved. It also means  that I cant  look at 
the decision not to grant  a term extension, because that complaint wasnt referred to us 
within six months of the final response letter being issued. I havent made any findings  on 
whether TMB dealt  with Mr P and Mrs C fairly in 2013/14.
change in interest rate
Im surprised at the response from TMB. It uses some strong  language  to describe a 
situation that Mr P and Mrs C and many borrowers with interest  only mortgages find 
themselves in. It may well be a breach of contract with the whole balance due  but that 
doesnt alter TMBs obligation to treat Mr P and Mrs C fairly  and to communicate in a way 
that is clear,  fair and not misleading. TMB is regulated by the FCA and those are high level 
principles it must adhere to. Its response fails to show that it understands what  its obligations 
are. 
When an interest only mortgage has reaches the end of its term but the capital  balance  
hasnt been repaid, the lender is entitled  to charge  interest  on the remaining balance. But if 
the interest rate changes I dont see how it could  be treating its borrowers  fairly  by not telling 
them what  the new interest rate is and what they must pay to cover the interest being 
applied each  month. The consequence of not doing so that is that the balance ends up being 
higher than the borrower expects. Looking  at all of the information  that was given to Mr P 
and Mrs C I dont think it treated them fairly when it didnt tell them  the correct  amount they 
needed to pay each month. And based on the information they were  given it was reasonable 
for them to consider that they were paying  enough to cover  the interest.
When I find a business hasnt acted fairly, I look to put the affected party back  in the position  
they would  have been in had they been treated fairly  in the first place. I accept that the 
increase in interest rates was legitimate and that TMB was entitled to pass this on to Mr P 
and Mrs C.
If TMB had told Mr P and Mrs C they needed to pay more each month I am satisfied they 
would have made those payments. I say this as part of this complaint Mr P and Mrs C have 
provided income and expenditure forms they completed. They show that they had enough 
surplus income to afford the increase  of more than £70 a month in interest payments. 
Ref: DRN73759083I consider the investigators proposal  for TMB to pay Mr P and Mrs C the difference  between 
what the total amount they paid to redeem the mortgage and the total amount they would 
have paid had they increased  their payments in line with the interest rate rise is fair. Of 
course, Mr P and Mrs C have saved money  by paying less than they should have each 
month. They would have had to pay significantly more each month if the payment had been  
increased. So the difference between the redemption  balance they were expecting and what 
they would  have paid in total if no mistake was made isnt a great as they think. 
 
In the circumstances of this case,  as Mr P and Mrs C were able to repay  the full mortgage 
balance, I think it is reasonable to take Mr P and Mrs Cs past savings into account.  So TMB 
is effectively refunding the additional interest  charged on the difference  between the amount 
Mr P and Mrs C were  paying and what they should  have been paying.  It should also pay 
interest at 8% simple  per year on that amount from the date of redemption to date of 
settlement.
The investigator set out her calculations of how the mortgage  was underfunded. Neither 
TMB or Mr P and Mrs Cs representative has disagreed with the amount. But I consider that 
TMB should  carry out its own calculation in line with my decision below  and provide a 
breakdown to Mr P and Mrs C and their representative.
Mr P and Mrs C have  been caused  some upset and inconvenience by the failure to tell them  
that their payment  had gone  up. That meant  the balance of their mortgage was over £2,000 
more than they reasonably expected it to be  although the total difference in the . I agree 
that TMB should pay them £100 to reflect any trouble and upset   but that is only for the 
failure to tell them how much they needed  to pay, not the failure to agree a term extension, 
which Im not considering.
Ref: DRN73759084my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of The 
Mortgage Business  Plc should:
From  28 February 2013,  calculate  the total amount (including the capital balance 
assuming that was paid on the same  date the mortgage was actually redeemed) Mr P 
and Mrs C would have  paid to their mortgage had their monthly mortgage payment 
increased to cover  the interest  applied each  month and they paid in full and on time. Pay 
them the difference between that amount and the total amount they paid from 28 
February 2013 to the mortgage  including the capital balance. Provide a breakdown of its 
calculation to Mr P and Mrs C and their representative.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above  amount from the date the mortgage was 
redeemed until date of settlement. If TMB deducts income  tax from the interest, it should 
tell r P and Mrs C how much  has been  taken off. TMB  should give Mr P and Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Pay Mr P and Mrs C £100 for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7375908