K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Barclays Bank UK Plc (then trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with a credit  card in 2002.
background
Egg was an internet based account. Mrs F applied online for her credit card with PPI via the 
Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs F is mainly concerned that her sick pay entitlement  at work meant she didn't need  PPI. 
And she said that if the costs versus benefits, as well as the optionality, of the policy had 
been made clear  to her she wouldve declined the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  
I think Egg made Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mrs F completed  she had to select  the Yes  option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and her application  wouldve  continued without PPI being  
included if shed done that. 
On balance, I find Mrs F knew she had a choice about protecting her repayments and the 
PPI was added to her account when she indicated she wanted  it. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for her. 
But it still shouldve given  Mrs F enough information  to make a proper decision about  
whether PPI was right for her. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if this made any overall 
difference to Mrs F. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs F has told us about  her financial circumstances. The policy 
wouldve protected her if shed lost her job as well as paying out if she was disabled or too 
sick to work. It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and in full for longer  than shes 
mentioned she couldve  depended on getting pay from her employer if she was off sick  up 
to 12 months per claim.  And it wouldve cleared her card balance if shed been off work  for 
12 months in a row. So I think the PPI couldve given her a useful benefit at what mightve 
been a difficult  time  especially if she had extra costs as a result of being  off work sick. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs F if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
So I think Mrs F couldve benefitted  from having  the policy.  
Ref: DRN70181222It doesnt look like Mrs F wouldve been  caught by any of the conditions which limited the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, I dont  think that knowing  more  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Fs decision to take it out. 
Next to where Mrs F was asked to decide about the PPI on the application she completed,  
the purpose of the cover  is broadly described,  the cost is set out and theres  some  
information about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mrs F with the protection broadly 
described on the website which shed indicated  she was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the policy  was unaffordable for her.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed  been  better  informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7018122