K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  National  House-Building Council (NHBC).  It provides  a 
building warranty for their home and they have  an outstanding claim regarding  the homes 
heating system.
background
In 2012 Mr and Mrs F found problems  with their electric powered heating system  and notified  
NHBC. They said it wasnt heating  their home effectively  some  rooms never got warm, and 
their bills were  significantly higher than expected. The warranty  was in its first two-year  
period which  gives  cover for defects. During this period NHBCs first route of remedy  is 
usually to mediate  the position  between the warranty-holder and the developer  of the 
property. With that in mind, in July 2013  NHBC issued a resolution report on the system.
The resolution report stated that the heating system didnt comply with technical 
requirements and was, therefore,  defective. The report said work had to be carried  out by the 
developer by August 2013.
Sometime in 2014 a towel rail was fitted  at the property by the developer. It isnt clear  if any 
more work  than this was done. NHBC seemed to believe the issue  with the heating  had been 
resolved but Mr and Mrs F remained unconvinced and complained  to this service.
In February 2017  our adjudicator noted  the deadline from the recommendation report in 
July 2013 had passed without work  being completed. So he was satisfied that as of
August 2013 NHBC was carrying out a regulated activity in respect  of Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
He said works should really have been completed by April 14 at the latest and if it had been 
the extra costs  Mr and Mrs F had incurred in respect  of heating their home  would have 
stopped at that point. He said he couldnt  be sure how much those extra  costs  had been but 
felt he could fairly accept  that around 50% of the bill costs could be said to be due to the 
defective system. He said that from April 2014  until the heating system was remedied, NHBC 
should pay 50% of Mr and Mrs Fs electricity  usage  costs.
Regarding resolving the heating system  issues, our adjudicator said that NHBC had to take 
over the work needed to ensure this happened (to that point it had been letting the developer  
control the work). He said it would  have to complete any investigations it felt were  necessary 
and then complete  the work  necessary to remedy the system.
Both parties  agreed to this. Mrs F felt that now NHBC  was in control things would move 
quickly. However, NHBC didnt take things  over from the developer  straightaway. This didnt 
happen until August/September 2017. By this point Mrs F had already got back in touch  with 
this service to advise that matters hadnt  conclude  as expected following our view.
An investigator began reviewing the complaint (as the previous adjudicator had left). Around 
this time NHBC carried out some  investigations at Mr and Mrs Fs home. This was to assess  
what temperature was being achieved in certain rooms of the home  by the heating  system. 
The contractor carrying out this assessment passed  its report  to NHBC in March 2018.
NHBC assessed the report,  asked some questions and determined  (over the course  of 
several months) that the heating system  was heating the various rooms adequately and in 
line with its technical  requirements. NHBC,  therefore, concluded that the heating  system  
Ref: DRN70382682wasnt breaching  its technical  requirements,  meaning it wasnt defective  and, in turn, 
meaning no work needed to be carried out to rectify  it.
Mr and Mrs F were  also very unhappy when  NHBC told them it was now not planning on 
carrying out any work on the system.  They said the system (powered by electricity) should be 
replaced by a gas powered  one.
NHBC made  this decision towards the end of 2018, and after our investigator had made 
some initial findings.  To this point NHBC had paid and was still paying 50% of
Mr and Mrs Fs electricity  usage costs. NHBC stopped making payments towards the usage 
costs in March 2019.
Mr and Mrs F said the payments made by NHBC regarding electricity costs werent enough. 
They said the costs  they were  incurring were around  three-quarters more  than what  they 
should be.
As Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy the complaint  was passed to me for an ombudsmans  
decision to be made.  I felt NHBC had failed  Mr and Mrs F and that in order  to resolve  matters  
it would  need  to replace their heating system, pay 50% of their electricity  bills (as directed) 
and £1,500 compensation. My provisional  findings were:
what I can consider
Mr and Mrs F complained to us about  their claim in 2016. Because an agreement  was 
reached by our adjudicator in 2017 the complaint, at that time, didnt proceed to an 
ombudsmans consideration.
However, that agreement  broke down. NHBC didnt take over responsibility  for the works 
straight away as agreed. In fact in around  June  2017  it sought  to renegotiate with Mrs F and 
asked if shed allow it to continue to use the developer. As the agreement  broke  down
Mr and Mrs F were  entitled to revert to this service in order  to receive  an ombudsmans 
consideration. So Im going to give them that as part of this decision.
In terms of their claim to NHBC, it began carrying out regulated activity in August 2013 when 
the deadline set in the resolution report  passed without recommended work being completed. 
So I will be looking at and taking into account everything that happened from August 2013 
onwards as part of my decision on this complaint.
Further, NHBCs claim decision, which came  after Mr and Mrs F had reverted to us following 
the 2017 view, directly  concerns a key issue at the heart of this complaint  the costs 
Mr and Mrs F have  been incurring for electricity usage. And theyve always maintained  the 
system needs changing. Therefore, I need  to consider NHBCs claim decision as part of this 
complaint as well.
In summary,  this decision will look at what has happened from August 2013 up to the point 
NHBC made  its claim decision  and then stopped making payments against the electricity 
usage. Ill decide whether NHBCs actions in respect  of all of that were fair and reasonable or 
not, and if they werent what it must do to as a result.
claim decision
In this case the warranty requires the developer  to resolve any defect reported to it in the first 
Ref: DRN70382683two years.  And the warranty defines a defect as something which is in breach of NHBCs 
technical guidance. As mentioned above, if the developer  doesnt  resolve  a defect by the 
deadline set in the resolution report, NHBC is seen to take over liability  for resolving that.
The resolution report in 2013 found the system was defective  that it wasnt achieving  the 
temperatures set out in NHBCs technical requirements. The report also set out a litany of 
faults and issues  with the system that all pointed  to it not being fit for purpose, but no 
clarification was given  as to whether these faults  and issues  breached NHBCs technical 
requirements. The report said the developer, as well as carrying  out works, needed to show 
that the system  had been designed and installed in line with BSIRA AG12 and AG13 (two 
long guidance  documents advising on the correct design and installation of underfloor 
heating systems), as well as manufacturers  instructions.
Ive seen the technical  requirements.  They refer to the system needing to provide certain 
temperatures in certain  rooms when the external temperature is minus  3C. They also say 
systems have to be in-line with BSIRA AG12  and AG13.
Whilst the 2013 report said the property  wasnt achieving  the required temperatures,  when, in 
2018 NHBC tested the property again, it decided the correct  temperatures  were being  
achieved. Even though  its only been  shown that the only works  accepted  as being carried 
out at the property was the fitment of a towel radiator.  Having  reviewed the report on the 
temperatures, as well as weather data, I think NHBC is wrong  in this respect.
The requirements say the living room has to achieve a temperature  of 21C when its minus 
three outside. When the property was tested in 2018 the minimum recorded temperature in 
the living room  was 20.7C and the maximum 24.2. But at no time during this measuring 
period did the external temperature drop to minus three. So NHBC  hasnt shown the system 
meets that technical requirement.
Furthermore, the report on the temperatures achieved specifically states that they will likely 
fall below that required by the requirements  if the outside temperature drops below  zero.
I think that conclusion  makes sense because when  the weather isnt below zero the living 
room cant always achieve  the required temperature of 21C.  So, I think its highly unlikely, 
that, when the outside temperate is at minus three,  the living room would achieve 21C. That 
means the system isnt working  in line with NHBCs technical requirements on temperature.
Furthermore, NHBC hasnt shown that the system was designed and installed in-line with the 
BSRIA guidance that is required as part of its technical requirements. And the 2013  
resolution report makes me think it wasnt  or at least cant be shown to have been.
For example the BSRIA guidance sets out various checks that need to be done  to ensure the 
design and installation have been  properly completed. The 2013 resolution report  notes that 
none of these checks are available in relation to Mr and Mrs Fs home.  BSRIA also shows  
that the underfloor heating pipes  should  be in contact with the floor and backed with 
insulation or reflective  materials to ensure  heat isnt lost downwards. The 2013  report  notes 
that many  of the systems  pipes in Mr and Mrs Fs home arent in contact with the floor and 
dont have the benefit of any reflective  backing  material to prevent heat being  lost.
There may well be other issues that mean the system isnt in line with the BSRIA guidance. 
But the ones Ive identified here, along with the fact that NHBC hasnt sought to show the 
system has been designed and installed in line with this guidance, satisfies me that there  are 
Ref: DRN70382684breaches in this respect. That means that the system doesnt meet  NHBCs technical  
requirement of being installed in-line  with BSRIA AG12 and AG13. It is, therefore, defective.
remedy
The 2013  report  said works were needed to bring the system in line with the requirements, 
but it never said what those works were. NHBC is adamant the system is working fine, 
although, given  what Ive said above,  it clearly  isnt in-line with its technical requirements.  Im 
mindful of the breaches Ive found,  such as pipes not being in contact with the floor,  and think  
that resolving something like this could  be horrendously  costly and inconvenient.
Furthermore, as it isnt yet clear  the extent  of all the breaches,  and NHBC has so far been  
reluctant to accept that defects exist as well as so far ignoring the BSRIA  part of the 
requirements completely,  I think telling  NHBC to bring the system in line with technical 
requirements would be an award  that is fated to fail.
Mr and Mr F want a gas system installing. Having considered everything I think that is a 
reasonable way to resolve the problem. I think it would likely  cost less and be less disruptive. 
And as it would remove the room for any argument  about what work  needs to be done  the 
required works to achieve  the remedy would be clear. Essentially, changing the system  
entirely makes for a much  neater and quicker  resolution, so in my view its fair and 
reasonable to make  this award. The old system will need to be decommissioned and/or 
disconnected as well.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F would like to have their own contractor install  the new 
system. Whilst  I understand the frustration  theyve had with NHBC over the years  that has 
been generated by NHBCs lack of willingness to take this work on and get it sorted. Its not 
the case that NHBC has carried out poor or sub-standard work.  Im not convinced  that 
NHBCs failures here are so bad as to warrant me not allowing it to carry out this work.
Although it is possible  that NHBC may prefer not to take on liability in this respect.
If NHBC says it doesnt want to do the work  then it will have  to pay Mr and Mrs Fs costs  for 
installing the new system (and adequately  decommissioning/disconnecting the old one). If 
NHBC is prepared to do the work but Mr and Mrs F wont let it, then it will only have to pay 
them what  it would have  cost it to do that. Mr and Mrs F should be aware  that this might  be 
markedly less than the price theyd be charged.  And NHBC wouldnt be liable for any faults  
or issues with the installation (or any decommissioning  work) moving forwards.
electricity usage
NHBC began carrying out regulated activity in respect of this claim in August 2013. At that 
time the recommendations of the 2013  report hadnt been fulfilled. NHBC should have taken 
control of things at that point to ensure that did happen and it should  have  checked  what the 
developer was doing and been more careful  about information it was given. As Ive 
highlighted, even in 2018 NHBC  missed a key issue  regarding the temperatures achieved in 
the home, and that, as well as it not looking at the BSRIA  guidance, meant it reached an 
unfair claim  outcome.
If NHBC had got things right, it could have identified  the relevant breaches in requirements, 
set out a clear  plan for resolving those and completed that work.  I accept that the claim 
situation is complicated (whilst Mr and Mrs F have a single  warranty  for their home,  NHBC is 
responsible for some  other  properties facing similar issues) and that it would have taken  
some time for NHBC to do that. Our adjudicator previously said it should  have been done by 
Ref: DRN70382685April 2014. I dont think thats an unreasonable estimate. And Im mindful  that NHBC 
accepted this view previously.
That would mean that the increased electricity  costs would have ceased  in April 2014. 
Knowing exactly what those increased  costs  are is impossible. There  are many factors  in the 
2013 report that show inefficiencies with the system, but as I said above  not all have been  
shown to be related  to breaches in NHBCs technical requirements. In addition we dont 
know what Mr and Mrs Fs costs would  be with a technically compliant system.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F have put great store in what the EPC (Energy Performance 
Certificate) for their property says. However, the 2013 resolution report  notes that the EPC 
seemed to be based on incorrect  data. That isnt something that is NHBCs fault. But, and 
setting aside the fact that estimates  set out in EPCs  dont guarantee usage at a property, it 
does mean  the EPC cant be used as a likely signpost for what Mr and Mrs Fs usage  should 
have been.
Our adjudicator previously  said payment of 50% of electricity costs seemed reasonable.
Whilst I regret any disappointment caused  to Mr and Mrs F, Ive not seen anything to make  
me think his view was unreasonable. For example, Ive not seen any calculation to evidence  
their view that their costs are around  three-quarters more than what they should  be. But even 
if there are some calculations  in this respect, I have to bear in mind that it seems likely that 
not all of the inefficiencies of the system are related to breaches  of NHBCs technical 
requirements. So not all of the extra costs  incurred are due to NHBC not having resolved the 
defects by April 2014 as it should  have  done.  Therefore, I cant see any reasonable grounds 
for me to say NHBC should  be paying more than 50%.
NHBC stopped paying  the 50% in March 2019.  Given my findings above, I think  it needs to 
continue paying  that sum beyond that point and until a new gas system  is installed, thus 
ending any draw on the electricity costs  from the heating system.  If NHBC installs  the system 
it will be up to it to do so in a reasonable time.  Therefore,  it will fairly be responsible  for extra  
costs until this is done. However, if Mr and Mrs F do this work NHBC wont have any control 
over how and when  it progresses. Therefore, I need to place  a cap on its liability  for extra  
electricity costs. I think six months is a reasonable but generous time to allow
Mr and Mrs F to get quotes  and get this work completed.
electricity usage debt
Mr and Mrs F have  a debt of around  £12,000  with the utility company (although Ive only 
seen bills dating to March 2018). They feel NHBC should pay this off. Im not going to require 
NHBC to do that.
Following our view in 2017 NHBC made payments to Mr and Mrs F which equated  to half the 
electricity usage cost from April 2014  through to March  2017. Then, as further bills were 
received, NHBC paid 50% of those to Mr and Mrs F as well. To the end of March 2018  
NHBC had paid 5,540.43 to Mr and Mrs F. But the debt on their electricity account remained 
unpaid. As of that point the account  balance stood at £12,134.35, and none of the bills show  
that Mr and Mrs F have passed on to their electricity supplier any of the payments made to 
them by NHBC.
I havent seen  the bills from 2019  from when  NHCB stopped paying the 50%.  If a debt 
remains Im not persuaded its because of any failure of NHBC to pay what was required of it. 
Ref: DRN70382686And as Ive said above, Im not minded to make it pay beyond the 50% that was agreed to in 
2017 and it has since paid. Therefore, I see no reason to require  NHBC to pay off any part of 
any debt that Mr and Mrs F owe to the electricity supplier.
Im also aware that at some point a debt on the electricity account has affected Mr Fs credit 
rating. Whilst I understand this is upsetting, given what Ive said above, Im not persuaded 
that NHBC can reasonably be said to have any liability for that marker. So Im not going  to 
take into account against NHBC  any upset or inconvenience caused by that record being 
made. Nor am I going to require NHBC to take any action regarding this record; such  as 
provide a written  statement of explanation  to be placed  on the credit file.
claim handling
This has been a very long claim for Mr and Mrs F. As I said above it should  have all been 
resolved in April 2014   but in late 2018 NHBC suddenly  made  a complete U-turn and told 
Mr and Mrs F it wasnt going  to do any work  at all. That was even though  the resolution 
report in 2013  and everything  NHBC  had done  since pointed to the system  needing  changing 
and that it was going to do that, or something  to remedy the problems at the home.
So not only have  Mr and Mrs F lived with the issues for around four years longer than they 
should reasonably have  had to  they had the immense upset and frustration caused by that 
decision. A decision which Ive found  was unsound, unfair and unreasonable.  They  havent  
been able to enjoy their house in the way they should  due the inappropriate temperature  of it, 
and whilst their financial  loss has been  compensated  for, the loss caused them a lot of stress 
too. Im minded  to say that £1,500 compensation is fairly and reasonably  due here.
Im not sure what compensation Mr and Mrs F have  received to date. I know that NHBC at 
one time sent them £650  but that Mr and Mrs F didnt cash  that cheque. A further £300 was 
offered in 2018  but Im not clear  whether  this was paid to Mr and Mrs F or whether they 
accepted it. In any event,  my award is a total amount. So NHBC will only have to pay any 
part of it that it hasnt accounted  for already by making previous compensation payments 
(which Mr and Mrs F have  accepted).
Following my provisional decision both parties  suggested that installing a gas system was 
likely not possible,  Mr and Mrs F obtained a quote  for installing a different type of pump, they 
said they need to install radiators upstairs as well and do some work in the garden (where  
the pump would  be situated). The estimate for the new system was £24,650, plus VAT and 
Mr and Mrs F estimated the other  work would cost around £10,000. They  clarified that 
payments for bills had stopped in 2018,  not 2019.  The cost details were  sent to NHBC but it 
didnt comment.  I then issued some  further  findings  to let both parties know what I thought a 
fair and reasonable remedy would be in the circumstances at hand.  I said:
Mrs F has only been able to provide one quote. Ideally there would be three. However,  
I know Mrs F did try and get another quote  and the contractor let her down. I also know 
Mrs F has some health  concerns currently  that need to be taken into account. Im satisfied 
then that NHBC should pay Mrs F the quoted price of £24,650. This sum excludes VAT. 
When Mrs F gets the work done and VAT becomes due she can send a VAT invoice to 
NHBC for it to pay.
However, Mrs F reports that the quote  necessitates but doesnt include costs for installing 
radiators upstairs, digging up and reinstating  the garden to install  the pump housing, and 
building the pumphouse.  Having considered the quote I accept that this work will need doing 
Ref: DRN70382687as part of the work to install the new system. NHBC will, therefore, need to make  a payment 
to cover the cost of this. So far though  the costs havent been quantified. Mrs F has guessed  
at a figure of £10,000 but hasnt obtained any quotes. NHBC hasnt commented but, in 
theory, I think  it may be able to cost this work (even  though  it doesnt  want to be involved in 
completing it). All I can do, at this time,  and being  mindful that it is already two months since 
my provisional decision was issued, is say I intend to direct  NHBC to be responsible  for the 
cost of this work. Unless clear, acceptable costs can be established in the next two weeks, 
Im not going  to be able to award  a monetary amount for NHBC to pay.
Mrs F says the insulation at her home  needs  resolving too. Whilst I appreciate Mrs F feels 
the insulation  is deficient  that doesnt necessarily  mean what is in place breaches NHBCs 
technical requirements. I also havent  seen  that poor insulation was ever raised  as an issue  
with the builder or NHBC in the first two years  of cover, or that a resolution report regarding 
insulation was completed with recommendations for rectifying it being  made.  So Im not 
going to say that NHBC should cover any costs  for rectifying the insulation at Mrs Fs home 
(save for the insulation  mentioned in the quote,  which is required as part of installing  the new 
system).
Finally, I need to comment on the payment  regarding usage. When  I assessed the complaint 
prior to issuing my provisional decision, I seem to have been  under the impression that 
NHBC continued to pay 50% of Mrs Fs electricity bills until March  2019. Mrs F says the 
payments stopped in March 2018.  Having reviewed the file the last clear payment I can see 
in this respect being made was in April/May 2018, and for bills from Jan, Feb and Mar 2018. 
Unless NHBC can show me that payments beyond that date have  been  made,  my final 
decision will likely reflect that it will have to pay 50% of the usage from (and including) 
April 2018s bill and until six months  after my final decision is accepted  by Mr and Mrs F.
Im not currently minded  to amend my compensation award.
In response Mr and Mrs F said theyd obtain some quotes for the further  work.  NHBC 
responded and said it could price  the work but that would take time and would likely require it 
to visit Mr and Mrs Fs home. To avoid delay it said it would agree to pay £10,000 for this 
work but that would  be on the understanding it was full and final settlement  Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt be able to ask for any more later on if they found costs exceeded this figure.  The 
offer was put to Mr and Mrs F. They agreed  to forego getting quotes  in exchange for full and 
final settlement now of £10,000 for the additional work necessary to install  the new system.  
NHBC agreed to pay bills from April 2018  onwards, upon sight of proof. 
NHBC had agreed the compensation amount. Mr and Mrs F had made  some  comment  in this 
respect. Essentially  they felt it was too little and that it shouldnt be subject to deduction for 
other compensation amounts already  paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note NHBCs  agreement  to everything so I wont go over its full response which explains 
why it thinks its initial  resolution  report was wrong and that there likely isnt a technical  fault 
with the system. But I have considered  its full response and, for the record, Im not 
persuaded by its reasoning. As I say though, NHBC has agreed to my findings and it says 
Ref: DRN70382688that is largely because  it recognises how long things have gone  on, meaning  my findings  and 
award are seen to be fair in the circumstances. 
Both parties  are happy for me to make a money award to reflect the system  installation costs 
as evidenced,  plus £10,000 for additional  work that is accepted as necessary but hasnt been 
properly costed. Mr and Mr F understand that in foregoing  the cost process, further delays 
are avoided but they wont  be able to re-visit the issue of the cost later if they should  find the 
work is more expensive than the agreed settlement sum.
I remain of the view, as stated in my further findings,  that I cant  reasonably  require NHBC to 
take action regarding any lack of insulation  at Mr and Mrs Fs home, save for the costs  
necessary for insulation  required  as part of the new system  installation  and as dealt with in 
the estimate I am requiring NHBC to pay for (which it has agreed). 
NHBC seems  to accept it hasnt paid any money  to Mr and Mrs F for their electricity  bills 
since the payment  I referred to in my further  findings  from April/May 2018 for bills up to and 
including March 2018. We have bills on file for 2018  through 2019 and including  
January 2020  and our investigator will pass these to NHBC to assist it with making payment 
to Mr and Mrs F. 
I know Mr and Mrs F feel that £1,500  total compensation isnt enough but, having reviewed 
matters I remain of the view this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im also still of 
the view that NHBC can deduct  from this sum any compensation  it has already paid in 
respect of this claim (and that Mr and Mrs F have  banked). Our adjudicator on the previous 
complaint awarded  compensation  and I believe this sum has been  paid by NHBC and 
banked by Mr and Mrs F. It would be unfair  for me to say NHBC should ignore this payment 
and pay compensation over and above it. Thats because this sum was awarded for the 
same complaint circumstances. But my review has gone past the point our adjudicator 
considered up until and my review  of everything  has determined that in total £1,500 is fairly 
and reasonably due. If Mr and Mrs F have  already  had the benefit of some money that 
makes up that figure, I cant fairly ignore that and ask NHBC to pay twice. If I were  to do that 
Id effectively be saying  that more than £1,500  compensation was fairly and reasonably  due 
and Im not persuaded that is the case.  
Having reviewed everything, I remain satisfied by my provisional findings, as amended  by my 
further findings. All my previous findings  now form part of this, my final decision.
Ref: DRN70382689my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National  House-Building Council to:
Pay Mr and Mrs F £24,650  in settlement of the cost to install  the new system as per the 
estimate for that, and, when VAT invoices are provided,  pay the VAT value to them.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £10,000  in full and final settlement for installing radiators upstairs, 
building a pump house in the garden  and work necessary  in the garden  (including its 
reinstatement after work)  to lay necessary cables and piping. 
Pay Mr and Mrs F 50% of the electricity usage  from the point payments in this respect  
stopped in March 2018 until the new system is installed. If Mr and Mrs F take on the 
installation themselves, pay until six months  after my final decision  is accepted  by them.
Pay Mr and Mrs F a total of £1,500 compensation. If any part of this sum has already  
been paid (and received by Mr and Mrs F), only the remainder  outstanding will now need 
to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7038268