K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains about the credit account J D Williams & Company Limited (trading as Simply 
Be) gave to him. Mr S says the account and credit  increases were  given despite  his poor 
credit history.
Background
In October  2014, Mr S signed  a credit agreement with Simply Be for a credit account.  From  
the information, the credit limit on Mr S account  was increased as follows:
Date  changed Old Limit New Limit
28/10/2014 200 300
25/11/2014 300 500
21/12/2014 £500.00 £700.00
20/01/2015 £700.00 £1,000.00
17/02/2015 £1,000.00 £1,250.00
01/09/2015 £1,250.00 £1,750.00
21/12/2015 £1,750.00 £2,000.00
10/10/2016 £2,000.00 £0.00
When Mr S complained to Simply Be, it didnt uphold his complaint and thought  it hadnt  
done anything  wrong. Unhappy with Simply  Bes response Mr S referred  his complaint to this 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr S and Simply Be said and thought that the 
complaint should  be partially upheld. Our adjudicator thought  that Simply Be should have 
done more before increasing Mr S limit in December 2014 and thought that the complaint 
should be upheld  from that point onwards.
Simply Be disagreed,  it said its checks went far enough and there  was nothing to suggest 
that Mr S couldnt afford the credit limit increases. As the complaint hasnt been  resolved, it 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, the lender had to take into account its overarching  
responsibility to lend responsibly by assessing  the borrowers ability  to repay  the credit  
given.
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent. 
Simply Be says it checked Mr S credit file, but it hasnt provided  the details of what  it saw 
when it checked  Mr S file before lending/increasing the limits. Simply Be has provided the 
Ref: DRN79495432credit score it obtained from a credit  reference  agency. From  what it has provided,  Mr S 
credit score varied from 547 to 647 at the time of the credit increases. It appears these were  
the only checks Simply Be carried out throughout the lending  relationship  with Mr S. Simply 
Be said each credit limit increase was done automatically after a review of Mr S credit  file. 
And based on what it saw from those  checks it thought it reasonable to lend.
Given that this credit  facility and the subsequent increases were  given  after April 2014, 
Simply Be and businesses like it were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and so as stated above it needed to carry out checks that were proportionate to the lending  
decision that was made.
Id have expected Simply Be to at least understand what  Mr S income was before agreeing 
to lend and as the lending  increased, it would have  been reasonable for Simply Be to also 
ask Mr S about his monthly living costs, other credit commitments he had to get a clearer 
picture of Mr S financial  circumstances. It didnt  do this before it made  any of its lending  
decisions in the two-year time frame  it was lending to Mr S and so I dont think  it has done  
enough before agreeing to lend.
Mr S has provided a copy of his credit file and from what I can see from around the time of 
the third credit limit increase in December 2014, Mr S was regularly using payday loans and 
had at least three other mail order/credit account  one. As Simply Be suggests that it checked 
Mr S credit file I think it would have likely seen these and that should  have prompted  it to 
take its checks further, to at least understand Mr S monthly income  and living costs in 
addition to his credit commitments. 
Mr S has provided copies of his bank statements from the time, I appreciate Simply Bes 
point about it not having  to request bank statements. Im not saying Simply Be had to 
request bank statements, it couldve taken other steps to satisfy itself that Mr S could afford 
the credit  it was given.  In the absence of evidence that Simply Be obtained further 
information about Mr S circumstances at the time, I think its reasonable to look at what 
Mr S actual circumstances  were at the time. 
In the month before the credit facility was agreed, Mr S income was around £1,979 and I 
cant see that there was anything on Mr S credit file that should have concerned Simply Be 
about his ability to sustainably afford the facility.  Given the early stage of the lending  
relationship and the other factors previously mentioned, I think  the original credit of £200 and 
two subsequent increases to £300 and £500,  were  likely affordable  for Mr S and even if 
Simply Be had carried  out proportionate checks, its likely to still have responsibly lent here. 
However, the third credit limit increase I think Mr S had built up some  history with Simply Be 
and with every credit  limit increase, Mr S was utilising close  to the credit limit and wasnt 
making repayments that were reducing  the capital borrowed. Also, at the time of this third 
increase and at the time of subsequent  increases, Mr S credit file showed  that he was 
increasingly relying on credit including  payday  loans and I think this should have concerned 
Simply Be.
A closer look at Mr S finances would likely have shown that he couldnt sustainably afford 
this increase. At the time, Mr S outgoings outweighed his income  of around £1,900 and 
having reviewed  Mr S banks statements, I cant see that his finances improved but the credit 
limit on his account kept rising and with a larger credit  limit, Mr S was spending  more  thereby 
increasing his indebtedness. 
Ref: DRN79495433Simply Be has argued that Mr S was regularly paying more than the minimum amounts  
required and while I dont  dispute this, I can see that Mr S wasnt substantially reducing  his 
outstanding balance either  and so his level of debt to Simply Be was increasing at the same  
time his credit  with other businesses were  increasing too. Mr S went into a payment 
arrangement with another creditor and his account  with Simply Be ran for about two years 
with seven credit limit increases and by the seventh increase the credit limit was ten times 
more than what Mr S started  with. 
This wasnt a sustainable position and Simply Be as a responsible lender should have seen 
this and shouldnt  have continued  to increase  Mr S credit limit from December 2014 
onwards.
Putting things  right
As I think  Simply Be shouldnt have  lent to Mr S from 21 December 2014 onwards it needs 
to:
reconstruct the account by removing any interest  and all related fees and charges 
from 21 December 2014 onwards;
all payments made after 21 December 2014 by Mr S towards the account should be 
treated as payments towards the capital borrowed;
If this clears the total balance any funds remaining should be refunded  to him along 
with 8% simple interest* - calculated  from the date of overpayment  to the date of 
settlement. Or, if an outstanding balance remains you should look to set up a suitable  
payment, 
remove any adverse information  on Mr S credit file from 21 December 2014 onwards 
so that the credit file accurately reflects the reconstructed account.
I understand the debt has been  sold on to a third party so Simply  Be will need to buy the 
debt back or communicate the adjusted account  details to the third party.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Simply  Be to take off tax from this interest.  Simply Be must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr S complaint and require 
J D Williams & Company  Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7949543