K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  plc has wrongly defaulted her account and recorded 
the information on her credit file.
background
HSBC told Miss S her account was being passed  to its debt recovery  team because it had 
been overdrawn for some time. HSBC reduced  the account balance to nil on its records  
before passing  it to the debt recovery team. It also recorded the default on Miss Ss credit 
file.
On the same  day, Miss S made a payment  to clear her overdraft. HSBC  wrongly  told her the 
account had already been cleared. It says it returned Miss Ss payment to her.
Miss S has been chased for the debt as it is still outstanding. 
HSBC accepted it had given Miss S incorrect information about the status  of her account 
after shed made the payment to clear  her overdraft. It gave her a period  of time to clear  the 
debt and said that if she did it would remove the default from her credit file. Miss S didnt 
make the payment so her credit file hasnt been  changed, and she is still responsible  for the 
debt.
Since this service has been involved,  HSBC has also offered to pay Miss S £100 for the 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information  it gave her.
Our investigator thought HSBCs actions were fair. He was satisfied that the bank had given 
Miss S the opportunity  to settle her account so that it wouldnt be defaulted.  He also 
considered the compensation  offered by HSBC  was fair.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think  is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its not in dispute  that Miss S made  a payment to her account on the same  day that HSBC 
reduced the balance to nil and referred  it to its debt recovery team. Its unfortunate that 
HSBC didnt realise the debt still had to be paid, and wrongly told Miss S that her payment  
represented an overpayment.
HSBC has offered Miss S £100 in recognition of its mistake, and I think  thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstance.
Ref: DRN74007952HSBC says it refunded  Miss Ss payment to her, but she says she didnt receive it. But Miss 
S hasnt  been  able to provide any evidence to support what shes  told me. From what Ive 
seen, on balance I think its likely that Miss Ss payment was returned to her.
When HSBC realised  Miss S had been given wrong  information about the status of her 
account, it gave  her the opportunity to clear the debt and said it would remove  the default 
from her credit file. I think the amount  of time HSBC  gave Miss S to settle the account was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As Miss S didnt pay what she owed, HSBC didnt have to remove the default  from her credit 
file.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC acted reasonably following the wrong information it gave 
Miss S about her account. It should pay Miss S £100, but Im not persuaded that it needs to 
do anything else. 
my final decision
My decision  is that HSBC UK Bank  plc should  pay £100 to Miss S if it hasnt  already  done 
so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7400795