K820x#14complaint
Mrs G s complaint is about the offer of compensation  made  by HFC Bank Limited (HFC) to 
settle her complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  associated with her 
credit card.
background
Mrs G took out PPI alongside a credit card with HFC in November 1999. In 2012  she 
complained the PPI was mis-sold but her complaint wasnt upheld.  
In 2017 HFC contacted Mrs G to say she may be due a refund of some  of the commission  
she had paid as part of the premiums  for her PPI policy. It offered a total of £2,832.25 in 
compensation to refund  the excess commission and this included  some compensatory 
interest for the time Mrs G was out of pocket.
Mrs G wasnt  happy with the offer HFC had made and brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what HFC had offered in compensation was fair. Mrs G didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G complained in 2012 that she had been  mis-sold  PPI with her credit  card.  She brought 
her complaint to this service and in 2014 an ombudsman issued a final decision on the 
complaint. That decision  said the PPI hadnt  been mis-sold. 
In November 2017 HFC contacted Mrs G to say she may be entitled to a refund of the 
commission and profit share that was paid as part of the premiums for her PPI policy.  This 
was following a Supreme Court  case that said there may at times be an unfair relationship 
created with regard  to the amount of commission paid if this was not disclosed to the 
consumer.
Mrs G now wants  her mis-sale complaint about  the PPI reinvestigated. However  as her 
complaint about  the mis-sale was brought to us and had a final decision  issued  on it, we 
cannot consider  that complaint again.  The complaint about the commission compensation is 
a different complaint as it is about the level of commission,  if over 50%,  that Mrs G paid as 
part of the premiums. And that is what I will look at in this decision.
I know Mrs G is very unhappy with our responses indicating we cannot reconsider the mis-
sale of the PPI and she remains of the view that the PPI was mis-sold. But our rules  do not 
allow us to reconsider a complaint that has had a final decision issued on it. So I am unable 
to consider the issues Mrs G has raised  and reinvestigate her arguments  that the PPI was 
mis-sold.
In this decision, I am only considering if the amount of compensation paid by HFC for the 
excess commission that was part of the PPI premiums  is fair.
Ref: DRN77263672It is only because the PPI was deemed  not to have been mis-sold that the question  of the 
amount of commission Mrs G may have  paid, as part of the premiums, has arisen. Following 
the Supreme Court  case the Financial Conduct  Authority have issued new rules for 
businesses to follow when  considering  if there was an unfair relationship created. Where this 
occurred any commission and profit share over 50% has to be refunded  to the consumer.
HFC, who was responsible for selling Mrs G the PPI in 1999,  has said that there was an 
unfair relationship created.  As the commission was over 50% for some  or all the time the 
PPI was active on the account,  Mrs G is entitled  to some compensation to refund this excess  
amount of commission.
Although HFC sold the policy  to Mrs G, another business, who I shall refer to as business B, 
was responsible for the account from 2009  onwards. So for any excess commission before 
2009, HFC is responsible  for the amount of compensation, and after 2009  the other business 
is responsible.
Mrs G has provided  copies  of the two letters  she received setting out the offer of 
compensation for the commission. Both are dated  25 July 2018, one being related to the 
compensation from business B, responsible for the card after 2009, and the other  from HFC 
about the compensation before 2009,  but also indicating that HFC was responsible for 
sending the payment of the redress for both periods.
Mrs G felt initially she should  have  received  the compensation indicated in both letters. She 
also feels that as her credit limit was increased after 2009 and her spending was higher  than 
in earlier  years the amount due for the time after 2009 should be substantially more than that 
for the earlier period. Mrs G is also concerned  that the full information about  the costs  of the 
PPI is available.
HFC was responsible  for the sale of the PPI and the letter indicating the commission due 
from HFC says Well write to you separately  about  the redress  due for the period continuing  
after February 2009. This separate letter will confirm the full redress amount  youll  receive 
for the period before and after the transfer.  
This letter then goes on to show how the amount of £1,707.56 has been  calculated and is 
the amount that HFC needed to pay towards  the compensation,  for the period from when the 
PPI started  in 1999 to February 2009.
The second  letter,  of the same date,  explains that HFC calculated  the redress  due before 
February 2009 and that a separate letter has been  sent to explain the detail of that 
calculation. This letter  goes on to say The offer below details the full redress youre  due, 
inclusive of both the redress calculated by HSBC and [business  B]. To put things right,  well 
pay you £2,832.25  within the next 28 days  Ive summarised HSBCs decision and the 
combined offer below:   This letter goes on to set out the amount of £2,832.35 as the total 
redress.
So these letters both indicate that there were two letters, one showing the amount  of 
compensation from 1999 to 2009 and the other showing the total compensation through to 
2018. So Mrs G is only entitled to the total compensation for the whole period, as set out in 
the second letter.
Ref: DRN77263673The reason  the calculation  runs to 2018 is because compensatory interest  is payable  for the 
whole period Mrs G was out of pocket for the commission. And this was until the cheque  was 
paid to her in 2018.
I would also add that although HFC doesnt have all records  from Mrs Gs account from 
1999, it does have some computer entries and data and has provided a list of the total PPI 
premium amounts for the whole period  from 1999.  So it has been able to work out exactly  
how much  of these were for commission over 50%.
Included with one of the letters of 25 July 2018 is a chart which  shows that the commission 
paid in 2009 was at a rate of 82% and from January 2010 this dropped  to 74%.
Mrs G feels the credit  limit and balance on her card was higher after 2009  and so the 
commission amount should be more for the period  after this but the calculations  provided 
show the amount  of commission paid up to 2009  was more.
As can be seen from the commission  figures these actually dropped  in 2010, so less 
proportion of the PPI premiums is due to be refunded for the commission from 2010 to 2012 
when the PPI was cancelled.  
Also it is a ten year period  from 1999 to 2009,  and only three years from 2009 to 2012. Even 
though the credit limit and balance were  higher  in the last three  years  it is only a third of the 
time and also as can be seen from the commission levels the amount of commission  
included in the premium was less after 2010.
Mrs G is only getting back the proportion of the premiums paid that was commission over 
50%. She isnt getting back the full premiums paid and the rate of commission did change  
over time.
Based on all the evidence I have seen,  I think that the total amount offered by HFC as a 
refund of the commission and profit share  part of the PPI premiums plus some 
compensatory interest  is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I think that what HFC Bank  Limited has offered as 
compensation to settle Mrs Gs complaint  about the excess commission and profit  share 
during the time the PPI was active is fair. So Im not telling HFC Bank Plc to pay anything 
more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7726367