K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt  recovered a payment that Mr K 
mistakenly sent to the wrong  persons bank  account.
background
Mr K made an online payment to a workman. Just under a week  later he found out that the 
money hadnt arrived. Lloyds told him it had been sent to the wrong persons bank account 
because, although hed input the correct name and sort code, he had made a mistake  with 
the bank account number.
Lloyds got in touch with the other bank and found  out there wasnt  enough  money in the 
other customers account to return the payment. Because of this, Lloyds told Mr and Mrs K 
that it had not been able to retrieve the money.
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds had acted reasonably taking account of what  was 
required of the bank. But Mr and Mrs K didnt accept  that and asked for their complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr K made a mistake  when he input the bank account number. In 
these circumstances,  industry guidance  requires  Lloyds to contact the other bank within  two 
working days from when  its told the money hasnt arrived in the correct account, with 
enough information for that bank to take steps  to recover the money. In this case,  Mr K told 
Lloyds as soon  as he realised the money  hadnt  reached the person he had intended to pay. 
Lloyds contacted the other bank on the same day, asking it to prevent the money from being 
removed from the incorrect account.  
Although I can understand how difficult it must  be for Mr and Mrs K to lose this money,  I am 
satisfied Lloyds did all I would have  expected.  It acted quickly, and well within industry 
guidelines, once  it had been alerted to the problem.
Im nevertheless conscious  there  are two banks involved here, and industry  guidance also 
requires the receiving bank to take steps to recover the money. Mr K may be able to bring a 
complaint to us if the receiving bank hasnt  been  co-operative although, from what  Ive seen,  
on the face of it this doesnt seem to be the case.  However, and for the avoidance of any 
doubt, Im not making a decision about the other bank  here.
As everyone  acknowledges,  Mr K made a genuine mistake  but, unfortunately, there wasnt 
enough money in the other  account  by the time both banks became aware  for him to get his 
money back through the banking system. I know Mr K has considered  his options for 
recovering the money from the person  who actually  received it, although I fully understand 
why he has reservations  about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Ref: DRN75075342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Emma English
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7507534