K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Studio Retail Limited has added charges to her account and passed it 
to a debt collection  company  even though  she had tried to make  payments. She says that 
payments failed because of an issue  with Studios systems.
background
Miss K says that she has made  several  attempts to make card payments  on her account  but 
these were declined.  When payments were declined Miss K says she contacted  Studio  and 
tried to make payment over the telephone  again  using her card but this was also declined.  
She says that at the time she had enough  money in her bank account to cover  the payments 
and that she was able to use her card to make  payments to other entities. 
Miss K believes the issue was with Studios systems  and possibly linked to her changing  
address as she says her new address  is not always recognised. She feels it is unfair that 
interest has been added because of these issues and now her account has been transferred 
to a debt collection  company.
Studio says that there  were no problems with its payments systems at the time Miss K 
submitted her complaint. It suggested Miss K checked if there were  any issues with her 
banking provider and also advised her of other  acceptable methods of payment.
Our investigator upheld  part of this complaint. She did not find that Miss Ks payments were  
declined due to any error made by Studio. She understood Miss Ks frustration at not being 
able to make  her payments using her card but said that there  were  other  ways  to make 
payments. She also noted that the status  of Miss Ks account was not just due to the issues 
Miss K had paying  with her card. 
Our investigator did think that Studio could have communicated  with Miss K more clearly  
about her complaint and by not doing so caused  her unnecessary stress.  She recommended  
that Studio pay Miss K £60 compensation.
Miss K responded to our investigators view. She reiterated that she tried on several 
occasions to make payments and had encountered  issues.  She also said that although she 
was told she would  be sent payment slips these  did not arrive. She explained there  was a 
period when she was unable  to make online payments due to a mistake made on another 
account. She says while this issue has been  ongoing her child has been very ill and so she 
could not get to a bank for around  nine months because of this.
Miss K said there was an issue with her details  being recognised which was confirmed to her 
on three calls between  October 2017  and May 2018. She said she was a good customer and 
that she was able to make  payments  going  forward and so her account should be reinstated.  
Miss K also said that although she was told charges would be refunded these didnt ever 
show on her account. 
Studio did not accept  that it should pay any compensation in regard  to this complaint. It said 
that Miss K queried not being able to make a payment in March  2018 and the payment was 
attempted by an advisor but was declined. A payment plan was set up and bank details 
provided. It said that a complaint was raised in April 2018 and a final response issued within  
Ref: DRN73166022the required timeframe. It reiterated that Miss Ks bank declined  the payments and that she 
did not attempt  to use other payment  channels.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues  raised  in this complaint have clearly caused Miss K a great deal of stress  at a 
time when  she has explained her personal  circumstances were  very difficult. I can 
understand why Miss K has been upset by the issues  but my role is to see if Studio did 
anything wrong  and, if so, what it should do to put things  right.
Based on the information I have seen and heard  there are two parts  to this complaint. The 
first relates to Miss Ks payments being declined and the second  relates  to the service  she 
received while the issues  were  ongoing.
I have looked  through  Miss Ks payment history and can see that she was making  regular 
payments up until November 2017.  These payments were being  made  by mobile,  website 
and through the automated system.  I can see from her statement dated October 2017 that 
payment was due by 7 November 2017. Miss K successfully made a payment on 
14 November but as this was after the payment date a default sum of £12 was applied to her 
account.
Miss Ks statement dated November 2017  a minimum payment to be made  by 7 December. I 
can see that Miss K attempted to make payment on 6 December. This was not successful. 
On 6 December,  Miss Ks address was changed. She believes the new address could have 
been the reason for the issues with her card payments. The address is recorded  on the 
system and I note this was changed  to a different  format  when Miss K contacted Studio in 
March 2018. Further details about  this payment  also show that there  was no match for the 
card verification result. However  the failed payment attempted on 10 December the same  
amount recorded  a match for the card verification result. The error code relating to both 
these attempted  payments said that the payment was declined by Miss Ks bank.
Miss K did try to make a payment on two occasions  in December 2017 (one through  the 
website and one by mobile). However  when  these failed she could have tried a different 
payment channel. I understand the issues she was experiencing  meant  she was not able to 
go to a branch  but other options were available such as payment by post. 
Miss K then did not attempt to make  a payment until 2 March 2018.  On this date she made 
five payment attempts.  I can understand why she was upset that her payments were not 
successful. She contacted  Studio  and the issue was discussed. On this call Miss K is clearly 
upset. The adviser  offers to refund charges. I can see that four default  sum amounts were 
refunded along  with a £10 compensation payment. These are all shown on Miss Ks 
statement dated 12 March  2018.  
Given the issues Miss K had been experiencing, I find this was a reasonable  resolution  and 
meant that Miss K was not charged default sums for the missed payments  up to this date. 
Ref: DRN73166023Miss K did then make a payment for £40 on 11 April 2018, although  I note her first attempt to 
make this by mobile was unsuccessful. The payment  was for less than had been agreed  with 
Studio. I note that a default  sum that was applied on 12 April 2018 was reversed. 
Miss K made two further attempts at payment in April both of which  were  declined. She did 
successfully make a payment in May.
I can understand why Miss K has been  upset by the issues she has experienced. However 
the information suggests the payments were declined by her bank.  I appreciate the 
comments she has made about having the funds available but based on the information I 
have I do not find I can say that the issue was due to any error by Studio.
Miss Ks account was in arrears at the time and she did not attempt to make payments, or 
made payments of less than the required amount, on a number of months. So I cannot say 
that all the issues  with her account were due to the payment  issue.  I also note that although 
she did try different card payment approaches there were other payment channels available  
to her.
Miss K says that she is now able to make  her payments and thinks  that her account should 
be taken back form the debt collection company. However I cannot  say that Studio did 
anything wrong  in regard to her account  and so I do not uphold this part of her complaint.
I do find that Miss K could  have been provided with better service. I have listened  to the calls 
and Miss K is clearly  upset by the issues she is facing and asks to speak to a manager.  She 
is not provided with a clear reason for why her card is declined  and I can see she is 
contacted about payment without any consideration to her outstanding complaint. She 
explains that she has to keep repeating her complaint each time she makes contact and that 
she has raised a number of complaints. Miss K also said that the payment slips she was told 
would be sent never  arrived.
Overall, I do not think that Miss K received the service she should  have. Because  of this I 
think the £60 recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint tin part. Studio Retail  Limited should pay 
Miss K £60 compensation  for the service  she received while  experiencing issues making  
payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316602