K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that when Lloyds Bank PLC sold him an income protection policy, it 
recommended an unsuitable expiry date.
background
In 2000, Mr J took out an income protection policy. The aim of the policy  was to pay benefit if 
he couldnt work because of accident or illness. The policy was set up to end when Mr J 
reached age 55. 
Soon after taking out the policy, Mr J stopped  work  because of illness. The insurer paid 
benefit under the policy until Mr J reached age 55. 
Mr J has complained about the sale of the policy. He thought the policy  should have been  
set up to expire at age 60 or 65, rather than 55. Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. It said the 
policy end date had been set up to end at age 55, as this was the age he said he intended to 
retire. It also said that because Mr J was in a senior position at Lloyds at the time, he would 
have understood  the implications of having the policy  expire at age 55. Unhappy with this, 
Mr J brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  the evidence from 
the time of sale confirmed  that Mr J intended to retire  at age 55, and that Mr J understood 
the policy would end when he reached  age 55. 
Mr J has asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the fact-find from the time of sale. This gave Mr Js preferred retirement age as 
55, and said he would  receive  the basic state  pension, and he was in his company pension  
scheme. A note about Mr Js aims  for retirement  said:
[Mr J] would  like to retire  at around age 55 when he would have  an almost complete 40 
years service and would like a comfortable  retirement. He has a small FSAVC  which  could 
be used for earlier  retirement or to make  up the odd year if necessary.
A further  note said:
[Mr J] wants to retire  at age 55, although  company retirement age is 60 and an FSAVC is in 
place which  could be used from age 50.
The fact-find also noted that Mr J and his wife owned their own property, as well as two 
others between them.  None of the properties had mortgages. 
The adviser then provided Mr J with a letter  of his recommendations. He recommended  an 
income protection policy which  would end when Mr J reached age 55. He recommended  a 
split policy  to take into account Mr Js employers sick pay arrangements. However Mr J 
wanted the benefit to be paid after 12 months, so the policy  was set up with a waiting period 
Ref: DRN73732032of 12 months. The adviser said Mr J had a potential need in the pensions area, and he 
recommended Mr J contact his employer to obtain more information  about acquiring 
additional benefits through the in-house  option. 
Given that Mr J was quite  specific about his intended retirement age of 55, I can understand 
why the adviser  recommended  that the policy end when Mr J reached age 55. 
Mr J thinks the policy  should  have been set up to coincide with his company retirement age 
of 60, or perhaps the state retirement  age of 65. He says the adviser knew  he had a pension  
shortfall and so ought to have realised his intended  retirement at age 55 was optimistic.  He 
also says that because he had to stop working due to ill health and left his company, there 
were no further contributions made  into his pension  and so early  retirement  couldnt  happen.
The fact-find doesnt mention anything about  Mr Js pension shortfall, though the 
recommendations letter does say that Mr J had a potential need in the pensions  area.  
However, when the policy  was sold Mr J was only in his thirties and so if he did have a 
pension shortfall, there was time to increase  his pension  pot to allow  him to take early 
retirement. He also had an FSAVC which he could use to increase his pension, and he (and 
his wife)  owned  three properties between  them  with no mortgage. That being  the case, it 
seems entirely possible that Mr J could have  retired at his intended age of 55. 
I can understand Mr Js disappointment that the policy ended  when he reached age 55, and 
so his claim payments  also ended  at that time. But the adviser couldnt have known that Mr J 
would have to stop work  due to ill health  so soon after taking out the policy,  and crucially  
before his pension  had increased through contributions in order to give him a sufficient 
retirement income at age 55. 
The adviser could  have recommended the policy have a later expiry date, despite Mr Js 
intended retirement age of 55. Though if he had done, this would have cost more and the 
argument could  be made that it would have been unsuitable if Mr J had retired at his planned  
age of 55.
On balance, I dont  think the adviser  was at fault for recommending the policy  expire when 
Mr J reached  age 55. Although Mr J says the adviser  didnt make  him aware of the potential 
consequences of this, I note Mr J was a regulated  person at Lloyds at the time and so I think 
he would  have likely understood this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7373203