complaint
Mr T has complained about his home  insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because its 
declined a claim he made after glass in his patio  door shattered.
background
Mr T found the glass in his patio door had shattered, although  due to the lead work on the 
pane no glass had fallen out. He called UKI but it noted Mr T didnt know how the damage  
had occurred and he didnt have cover for sudden, unexpected and unintended damage  
(accidental damage). Therefore, it wasnt minded to accept the claim. But it did agree to 
have its glass expert  attend  to consider  the damage.
Mr T arranged this and met with the expert. He said that the expert told him the damage 
had most  likely been caused by a sharp flying object,  but the expert couldnt say for sure.  
The expert then sent UKI a report that recorded the cause  of the damage as being  
unknown.
UKI wrote to Mr T and said that as the cause of the damage hadnt been established, and 
as he didnt have  accidental damage  cover, it was declining the claim.  It referred  to the 
cover for damage caused by flying objects but made no further  comment  on this aspect.
Mr T complained to this service. Amongst other things  he said he felt he should have been 
clearly directed to take accidental damage cover if he wanted to protect  the glass in his 
home. He felt UKIs  policy  wording was unclear and out of date. Mr T explained hed had 
the door fixed at a cost of £491.40 and wanted  UKI to reimburse this sum.
Our investigator said the cover for flying objects would only apply where damage was 
caused by an item capable  of maintaining flight.  Whilst he noted comments Mr T had made 
about herons  and other animals  maybe  causing  damage, he felt the cause hadnt been 
clearly established,  meaning UKIs decline was fair and reasonable. He also said he could 
only comment on the policy that was actually in place  and as Mr T hadnt taken accidental  
damage cover he couldnt comment on this further.
Mr T remained unhappy. The complaint was passed  to me for consideration. I felt UKI 
should pay Mr T what it had cost him to repair the door,  plus interest*. Mr T accepted my 
findings. UKI objected  to them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
Ref: DRN7279260K820x#14Insurance is largely based  on cover  being  offered for damage caused by certain events. In 
addition, most insurers usually offer accidental damage cover  to items like glass  and sanitary  
ware as standard, whilst  providing an option  for further accidental  damage cover (for the 
remaining building and contents  items) to also be selected. But Mr Ts policy isnt like that.
Mr Ts policy doesnt offer any standard  accidental damage cover. This is quite different 
to most other policies  generally available on the market.
UKI said that isnt its experience. Whilst I appreciate UKIs view,  Im satisfied by what  
I said.
My provisional findings continued: 
We wont  tell an insurer what  it can and cant choose to offer cover  for. That is up to it to 
decide. But we do expect insurers to be very clear if the terms they are offering differ 
significantly to what a prospective policyholder would easily be able to achieve  
elsewhere. Ive seen no evidence or suggestion  from UKI that it did that here.  In fact it 
says Mr T had a chance to select the optional accidental damage cover but chose not to 
and it hasnt argued that it made  it clear to him that the usually standard  cover (for 
accidental damage  to glass and sanitary ware)  wasnt included in the policy.  From what  
Mr T has said, I think that if this key restriction in cover had been highlighted to him, hed 
either have  taken the optional cover or looked  a for a policy elsewhere that gave him 
protection against accidental damage  to glass and sanitary ware as standard.
UKI said it had made the policy terms clear to Mr T as when hed spoken to it hed been  
told the cover arranged didnt include accidental damage and he should check  the policy 
terms to make sure the cover met his needs. It also referred to cover  Mr T had previously 
with it in 2012  2015. It said this had similar  cover/wording, but Mr T had, at that time, 
opted to include  cover for accidental damage. 
The previous  cover is irrelevant when considering what UKI should have drawn to Mr Ts 
attention about the new and different cover he arranged with it in 2017. Telling Mr T he 
hadnt opted to take cover  for accidental damage didnt highlight to him that the main 
cover didnt include accidental damage to glass and sanitary ware  as standard. Nor was 
highlighting achieved by UKI issuing the standard direction to Mr T, made by most 
insurers when cover is arranged, to check the policy suited his needs.
My provisional findings continued:
UKI has indicated that if there had been  cover in place for accidental  damage it would 
have accepted the claim. I think thats  likely  what would have happened as the cover is 
offered against  sudden, unintended  and unexpected  damage  occurring.  That seems to 
be what happened here.
Therefore, Im minded to require UKI to pay Mr T the sum he has asked for of £491.40.
I havent seen  his invoice for this (yet) but I note the estimate from UKIs glass  expert  was 
just under £600 including VAT. So Mr Ts figure seems reasonable to me. If he provides 
proof and date of payment of this sum,  UKI will have  to add interest* from the date it was 
paid until settlement is made.
I know Mr T feels that other parts of his policy might apply to cover  this claim. However, 
when I look at cover for damage caused by specific events,  I have to be reasonably 
Ref: DRN72792603satisfied that a specific event occurred which most likely caused the damage in question.  
Not just that any one of a number of events  may have happened; such  as various wildlife  
pecking or clawing at the door, flying objects hitting it or criminals trying to break in 
through it, which could  have  caused the damage. So whilst I understand Mr Ts 
frustration, the accidental damage  cover is required in the situation here for the damage 
to his door to be covered.
Thats not to say that any damage to glass will only be covered under accidental  damage 
cover. For example  if a fire occurs which affects the glass; by heat or smoke  for example, 
then that would be considered under the fire cover offered by the policy.  Likewise if a 
vehicle was found to have  crashed through the glass  patio  doors, the cause of the broken 
glass would  be clear  and the damage would be considered under the impact from 
vehicles, aircraft and flying  objects cover.
On the issue of flying objects; this service wouldnt usually apply any restriction to this 
definition. If it isnt defined  in the policy then we wouldnt seek  to say this would only apply to 
items capable of maintaining flight.  This service would consider a flying  object, in the context 
of this type of cover,  to be anything flying through the air regardless of its nature or method 
of propulsion.
Having reviewed everything, and considered UKIs  objections, Im not persuaded to 
change my findings as provisionally stated. Im satisfied that UKIs  standard  policy,  in 
terms of not offering cover for accidental damage  to glass and sanitary ware, is unusual  
and this wasnt drawn to Mr Ts attention. Im further  satisfied that, if it had been, Mr T 
would have selected the additional cover, or sought  a different policy elsewhere. Either  
way hed have  most  likely been covered when  this incident occurred. As such  I find it 
reasonable to require  UKI to reimburse  Mr T the cost he incurred  in fixing  the damage,  
£491.40, plus interest*  (subject to proof  of payment).  Mr T has provided some  proof  of 
payment, Ill have our investigator forward this to UKI.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr T £491.40. If Mr T 
shows it proof he paid this sum and the date it was paid then U K Insurance Limited will 
also have to pay him interest* on the amount from the date it was paid until settlement 
was/is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr T, it should tell him how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7279260