K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Advance  Mortgage Funding Ltd (Advance) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms H took advice about a mortgage  in 2007. The insurance gave her protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment and she paid a monthly amount for the cover.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Advance disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 8 November 2019, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 December  2019.  At the time of writing Advance told us that they 
had received the provisional decision and had no further submissions they wished to make.  
At the time of writing  I have received  no further submission from Ms H or any request for an 
extension. We have sent the provisional decision  by post and email  to the addresses Ms H 
gave us. So, I consider  that Ms H has had sufficient  time to make  a submission had she 
wanted to, and I am proceeding  to my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Hs complaint and my reasons are as follows:
I think Advance made it clear that Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been  given a copy  of the mortgage  offer 
which explained that, You're not required to take out any insurance through  Abbey 
or through  BARRY JOHN TURNER, a member  of ADVANCED MORTGAGE 
FUNDING LTD TA PINK  HOME  LOANS. So I think it more likely that Ms H knew this 
was something she didnt have to take out, even if she cant remember that now. 
Ms H has said that Advance recommended the PPI to her, and I think it was right for 
her, based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. I say this because 
Ms H was eligible  for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limits on the PPI cover.
Ms H says she was entitled  to some good  sickness benefits from her employer, but 
these dropped significantly after six months. The PPI would have  paid benefits  for up 
to 12 months and in addition  to any employer sick pay she may have been entitled  to, 
and for longer than her employer  would  pay her at her full rate of pay. And it could 
Ref: DRN70540162have paid out if Ms H lost her job. So considering the potentially  serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured  on her home, I think  the PPI would 
have been useful to Ms H potentially.
The policy appears to have been comparable  in cost to other policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears  to have been affordable (I note it was afforded  
for several years).   
I cant  be certain that Advance provided full information to Ms H. But for the same 
reason that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think better information would have 
led Ms H to avoid the policy. 
Ms H told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the MPPI.  I have  no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective  area 
and I have not been presented with any evidence  that supports this testimony. So, 
having considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that 
Ms H only took the policy  because she was put under  pressure to do so.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend  to uphold this complaint  against Advance  
Mortgage Funding Ltd.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Ms Hs 
complaint about  Advance Mortgage Funding  Ltd.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  11 January 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7054016