K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that a new car he got with a hire agreement from Lex Autolease  Limited was 
of unsatisfactory  quality.  
background
Mr K entered into a finance agreement with Lex in March 2018  to finance the hire of a car for 
24 months at a cost of £835 a month (including over £60 a month for servicing)  with an 
annual mileage limit of 10,000 miles.  Shortly after delivery, in July 2018, Mr K complained  to 
the supplying  dealer  that the brakes  were noisy. The dealer replaced brake pads and discs 
but this didnt resolve the problem and Mr K raised the issue with Lex. 
Lex arranged for the dealer to check the car again and more work was carried  out but Mr K 
found the noise was still present. Lex arranged for an independent expert  inspect the car. 
Lex accepts he confirmed  the brakes were noisy at times but considers he concluded that 
the cars  safety  and performance were  not affected. Lex refers to the manufacturers 
comment that these  brakes are prone to noise if theyre not used heavily because theyre 
designed for harder use. And Lex says the brake  noise is characteristic,  it occurs when 
the cars  not driven optimally  and its not a fault.  Lex acknowledged that Mr K should have 
been told this sooner  and offered to pay £200  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
expert found the brakes make  a squeaking sound at low speeds and on reversing. He 
considered the expert accepted this is a fault because  he said the dealer should  be 
consulted about  remedial action and the issue resolved under the manufacturers warranty. 
Our investigator didnt  think a new car of this price should be so noisy. He was satisfied the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply  and the issue cant be fixed.  And he 
recommended Lex should  end the hire agreement, collect  the car and pay Mr K an additional 
£200 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Lex disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  Lex said (in summary) 
this is a performance vehicle designed  to be driven at high speeds  so the 
manufacturer has to use different brakes  (to the ones you might find on a more 
typical road car) to bring the vehicle to a stop effectively;
braking is achieved through friction - which creates vibration and noise - and, whilst 
manufacturers try to reduce this as much as possible, changes  in temperature,  road 
conditions and the like all have an impact;
the brakes have  to operate at high temperatures (created through  friction)  when  
stopping something  so heavy, quickly, which can mean  theres more variance/space 
between components and additional  vibration  and noise may result at lower  
temperatures - when  components are cold and metal contracts; 
this vehicle has much larger brakes  (more surface area) because its a high 
performance car, this is characteristic  of all high performance cars, not a fault;  
the manufacturer has confirmed there  are no applicable service bulletins and says 
applying load at regular intervals will keep the brakes pads at optimum  condition, for 
example (as per Highway Code):If you have driven through  deep water your brakes  
may be less effective. Test them at the first safe opportunity by pushing  gently on the 
brake pedal to make  sure that they work. If they are not fully effective, gently apply  
Ref: DRN78491712light pressure while driving  slowly.  This will help to dry them out. This will ensure  
braking surfaces  are clean which will ensure optimum performance;
comments in the experts  report have  been taken out of context - the expert 
recommended the manufacturer/dealer should be consulted  about possible remedial 
action but the dealer tried that and nothing more  can be done and, if the expert 
suspected theres a fault, he would have  said so clearly; 
the noise is not a symptom of a fault (or some abnormality), its just an unfortunate  
characteristic when  a high performance  vehicle  is driven at the lower end of its 
performance range and the car is working as intended.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  last year (which  is summarised  below). This 
forms part of my final decision. In it I explained  that this service provides informal dispute 
resolution. In reaching my decision, I must take account of relevant law (amongst other  
things). And I make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable - in all of the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. 
I was satisfied relevant  law in this case includes  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Mr K 
acquired this car with a hire agreement from Lex and Lex was obliged to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  when  he got it. I set out Section 9 of the CRA and went on to 
consider the level of quality thats  satisfactory  which varies according to circumstances. 
In the case of a vehicle,  it is generally  reasonable to consider the age, cost and mileage at 
the point of supply. This car was new when Mr K got it and cost around £800 a month  to hire 
and I thought he had a reasonable  expectation that the car would be free from faults  at the 
point of supply  - and meet  a higher standard than might  reasonably  be expected  of less 
expensive vehicles. 
I was satisfied there was no dispute that the car made a noise on braking. I referred to the 
experts report. I was satisfied the expert confirmed the brakes  squeak  when travelling  at low 
speeds and on reversing but he experienced no squeaking driving forwards and concluded 
(in summary)
the car has large brakes to deal with high speed  braking and temperatures  as it is a 
high performance  vehicle;
the manufacturer has to design  brakes to accommodate this level of performance 
and also someone  who drives at much  slower speeds - which  doesnt have the same 
effect on the system,  such as lighter  braking  forces and temperatures;
as a result of varying driving styles  the manufacturer can have difficulties with the 
performance of the brakes;
the manufacturer should be consulted by the dealer to see if any action can be taken 
or if a service bulletin is available for this issue;
the issue does  not affect  the performance  or the safety of the braking system;  and
it should be dealt  with under the manufacturers warranty.
I acknowledged Lex and the manufacturer say the braking noise is characteristic  - in that, 
its caused by the particular  specification  - and the brakes are manufactured to ensure the 
car is able to stop when travelling at high speeds  because its a high performance vehicle. 
And Lex considers  noisy braking may be an unfortunate side effect when the car is not 
driven optimally. But I was satisfied that the brakes on Mr Ks car make the noise  in 
question routinely, on reversing and when  the car is driven at low speeds. Mr K finds  the 
noise unacceptable  - both in terms of the nature of the sound itself (which  he described as 
Ref: DRN78491713ear-piercing) and the volume and frequency with which it occurs. He said its so loud that 
people in the street turn and look when he applies the brakes. I didnt think most people  
would expect brakes to make this sort of noise, in the usual course of events, I could see 
why Mr K was unhappy. I found it understandable that he was worried  the noise might  mean  
the brakes were  faulty and he wanted them fixed.  
Mr K took the car back to a main dealer to be checked and I thought staff there should be 
reasonably familiar with this sort of car and its characteristics.  I considered  the relevant job 
cards and service records. I was satisfied technicians at the dealership  were  able to 
reproduce the noise and, accepting it shouldnt be there, consulted the manufacturers 
database for a fix where they found reference  to this issue and took the steps 
recommended. I didnt think they would have done that - in a fairly new car - if there  was no 
problem. I thought it would make  little sense to undertake such work  if the noise was to be 
expected or characteristic of the model - or due to the way the car was driven and not a 
fault. I acknowledged Lex says the work  was done  as a goodwill gesture but I didnt think  
that explanation was consistent with the nature of the investigation undertaken and the 
remedial work. 
I was minded to find it more likely  the work  was carried  out to try and fix a defect. I thought  
that was supported by the experts  view - given he considered  the issue should be resolved 
under the warranty.  I was satisfied that people  generally expect brakes to work without 
significant noise  most  of the time. Given the noise was sufficiently out of the ordinary for the 
dealer to consult  the manufacturers  database and try to repair the car a number of times, I 
didnt think it likely  this noise was normal and characteristic for this particular car. And, even 
if I accepted the noise  is normal for these brakes,  I would expect such a significant and 
unusual sound  to have been drawn to Mr Ks attention before he agreed  to the hire. Mr K 
accepted a mileage  limit of 10,000 miles a year. I thought that suggested he was unlikely  to 
use the car routinely for very long journeys - or drive  it as hard as Lex says is needed  to 
alleviate the noise.  
I was satisfied the relevant manufacturer recognised that unusual brake noise should be 
flagged up to drivers in advance - because it provided that information  for some models. I 
checked the 2018 brochure for Mr Ks car which says operational  noise can be expected if 
the car is fitted  with carbon ceramic  brakes. But Mr Ks vehicle isnt fitted  with those. I found 
it difficult to see how he should  reasonably  have  anticipated that the brakes on his car might  
be noisy, in this situation. Lex supplied an extract from the relevant manufacturers manual 
but Id seen nothing to suggest that Mr K was likely to have seen or read this before  he 
agreed to hire the car. And, even if he did, I wasnt persuaded that the information  Lex 
referred to was sufficient  to alert him to the fact that the brakes on his car would be so noisy. 
I acknowledged there was nothing to show that this noise impacts on the cars 
roadworthiness but I considered most  people  would find it off-putting,  at best - and many, 
like Mr K, would  consider it worrying. I thought the noise would be unacceptable in the 
average new car - and I wasnt persuaded its acceptable in Mr Ks car. On balance overall, I 
was minded to find the noise is indicative of some  sort of issue. I couldnt be certain  what 
exactly but I dont  need  to pinpoint a specific defect to be satisfied the cars  not of 
satisfactory quality. Taking  into account the vehicles  description and the high standards Mr 
K could  reasonably have expected from a new car like this, I was minded to find the car was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply.  
The CRA sets out a number of remedies in this situation, including the chance to repair.  I 
was satisfied the dealer tried to fix the issue and Lex and the manufacturer confirmed 
Ref: DRN78491714nothing further  can be done to alleviate the sound. I didnt think  it reasonable to expect  Mr K 
to continue to hire a car with such noisy brakes. I was minded  to agree with our investigator 
that Lex should cancel the hire agreement and take the car back with nothing  further  owed, 
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ks credit file and mark the account  settled  
in full.  
Id seen nothing  to show that the brakes  are unsafe  but I accepted Mr K found  it annoying  to 
drive the car and he had genuine  safety concerns. He told us he got a new car in December 
2019 and stopped using  the car he hired from Lex. I found it understandable that Mr K was 
reluctant to use the car in these particular circumstances and he probably  used  the car less 
than he otherwise would. I was minded  to find Lex should refund  monthly  finance  payments 
(in full) from the date that Mr K told us he stopped using the car - subject to Mr K providing 
paperwork for the replacement vehicle he acquired and the current  mileage on the Lex hire 
car. 
I was satisfied that Mr K had to take the car back to the dealership several times and, whilst 
a courtesy car was provided each time,  I thought he probably experienced a good deal of 
inconvenience and frustration. I was minded to find it fair that Lex pay £400  for distress and 
inconvenience. I invited  both parties to consider my provisional findings  and provide  further  
comments or information, if they wanted to.   
the parties responses
Both parties  responded.  Lex didnt accept  my provisional decision. In summary  it said:- 
i. the expert said the brakes squeak  when applying the brakes  lightly in reverse  but he 
didnt agree there was fault and he confirmed Mr Ks use of the car (on inner city 
roads) would not be considered normal for this kind of vehicle as the brakes are 
designed for different optimum use;
ii. the expert said the manufacturer should  be consulted to see if the brakes could be 
modified in any way to take into account Mr Ks use but this wasnt acknowledgment 
of a fault;
iii. I overlooked the fact that the dealer, manufacturer and the independent expert dont 
accept the brake noise is ear piercing and consider the car is of satisfactory  quality 
with no manufacturing defect;
iv. repair attempts are evidence of excellent service not a fault - the dealer was trying to 
appease Mr K and reduce the noise  if possible;  
v. how could potential  noise have been drawn  to Mr Ks attention  before he took out the 
agreement - who would  have  had this conversation  and be held accountable given 
the finance was arranged by a broker;
vi. this sort of high performance vehicle is generally used by people  who are a little more  
car-savvy and knowledgeable, the aesthetics of the vehicle are important to them  
and Lex assumes  that they do a great deal of research before deciding  on a 
particular vehicle  and would  therefore be fully aware of the braking system set-up;
vii. its not right to draw  conclusions  from the 10,000 miles a year limit - if anything this 
indicates higher  than average  use and provides no indication of what type of roads 
the car might be driven on or style of driving;  and
viii. the vehicle  is safe to drive  and fully usable  so an instalment refund is unreasonable  
when there is no evidence that Mr K has not had good use of the vehicle.
Mr K accepted my provisional findings and he told us the car had nearly 24,000  miles on the 
clock. Thats  more  than the contractual limit of 10,000 miles a year.  I thought it seemed 
Ref: DRN78491715inconsistent with Mr K using the car significantly less than anticipated  at the outset.  I didnt 
think it was fair to require  Lex to refund  monthly hire instalments  in full from December in 
these circumstances.  So I got in touch with both parties to let them know that my view about 
the amount of the refund had changed.  I said, notwithstanding the mileage accrued, I 
remained of the view that Mr Ks use of this luxury vehicle was likely impaired throughout the 
period of hire because  of the brake noise. And I was minded to find it fair overall for Lex to 
refund 10% of each monthly  payment  made (plus interest)  to reflect  this. 
Lex agreed to pay £400  compensation and acknowledged noise would impair enjoyment but 
considers refunding 10% of all monthly  payments plus interest, is excessive. Lex confirmed 
the hire has now ended.  It says when the car was collected it had over 25,000  miles on the 
clock so Mr K not only exceeded his contracted mileage,  incurring excess mileage charges, 
but he also continued to use this car even after he had an alternative  available. Lex feels this 
suggests Mr Ks use wasnt adversely impacted  and objects to rectifying his credit  file - as 
the braking issue  had no bearing on Mr Ks ability to meet payments and any relevant 
information was recorded properly. 
Mr K told us the additional mileage was incurred because he changed jobs and had to do 
more driving than he used to. He says he wouldnt have driven this car so far - or had to 
continue to make monthly payments  if Lex had taken  it back  when he first complained. He 
feels its unfair that hes been  paying for a replacement vehicle as well as this hire car so he 
should have a bigger refund and Lex should  waive excess  mileage charges. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Ive already  dealt with the points made  by Lex at numbers i-vi above in my 
provisional decision. Mr K was paying over £800  a month to hire a prestige car. I think a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than for a cheaper vehicle. I 
found Mr Ks evidence about  the nature and frequency of the brake noise to be credible and 
consistent. 
I remain of the view this fails to meet the standard a reasonable person would expect, in this 
sort of vehicle especially. And, if the noise is characteristic, and/or the car was not expected  
to be used in the way that Mr K did, I think thats  sufficiently unusual  to need to be 
specifically drawn  to the attention of prospective customers. Its not for me to say how a 
business should do this. And I dont think its reasonable  to suggest that prospective 
customers should be savvy  enough to find this out for themselves by doing their own 
research, in these  circumstances. 
It follows that nothing  Lex said (in points i-iv) has persuaded me to change  my mind. Im 
satisfied Mr K reported this problem  early on. And I dont think Lex has done  enough  to show 
that the car doesnt have  an inherent  issue. For the reasons I set out, I remain of the view 
that its more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point  of supply. 
In light of my findings, I think it is fair and reasonable that Lex take the car back and 
compensate Mr K appropriately. As I said in my provisional decision,  working  out whats fair 
compensation in this sort of situation  isnt a scientific exercise.  Ive considered  what Lex 
says about the size of the refund. I realise  this is not an insignificant  sum but that that has to 
Ref: DRN78491716be seen in the context of the overall cost of the hire. And, taking everything into account,  I 
remain of the view that a refund of 10% of each payment  is fair and reasonable overall. 
I appreciate Mr K feels he should  have a bigger refund - and he wants Lex to waive  excess  
mileage charges - in light of everything thats happened. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr 
K was unaware of or disputes the annual mileage limit in the hire agreement. If he does, 
thats something hed need to raise with Lex. And, if hes unhappy with the response, he may 
be able to bring another complaint to our service. 
Im not persuaded its fair to criticise the efforts that were made to try and fix the car initially.  I 
realise Mr K feels Lex should have  allowed  him to reject the car after these repairs didnt  
work, but I dont think it was unreasonable of Lex to arrange for an independent expert to 
inspect, in this situation.  
Im satisfied it was Mr Ks choice  to drive this car as far as he did. I think  its also reasonable 
to bear in mind  that he would have had to pay for alternative transport, if he hadnt  had the 
use of this car. And Im not persuaded that I can fairly hold Lex responsible for Mr Ks 
decision to source another vehicle in the circumstances here. 
For the reasons  Ive given, Im satisfied this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. And I remain  of the view that its fair and reasonable overall  here for Lex to take 
the car back  and provide a refund of 10% of each  monthly payment plus interest along with 
£400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Lex hasnt told us if any adverse information was recorded on Mr Ks credit file. My 
understanding, from speaking to Mr K, is that he maintained the finance payments 
throughout. But, in the event that he stopped  making finance payments and Lex recorded 
related adverse information on his credit  file, I think its appropriate  for Lex to remove  that in 
this situation.  
Lex has confirmed that the hire agreement has ended and the cars been collected. So, it 
only remains for me to require Lex to take the steps set out below to put things right.  I realise 
this decision is likely  to come as a disappointment to Mr K but hes not obliged  to accept 
what Ive said, in which case it remains open  to him to pursue the matter  by alternative 
means, should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require Lex Autolease Limited  to:-
1.refund  10% of each monthly  payment  made under the hire agreement plus interest  at 
8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
2.if adverse information has been recorded  on Mr Ks credit file this should be removed  
and the account marked as settled;  and 
3.pay Mr K £400 (in total) compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If Lex considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr K how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN78491717Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849171