K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), regarding action it took to remove  her 
overdraft facility, close her account  and register  a default against  her. She wants HSBC  to 
remove the default from her credit  file. 
background
Mrs J is a longstanding  customer of HSBC. 
In mid-2015, Mrs J moved abroad. She set up a redirection  for post received at her home to 
be forwarded to a family address. 
At the time of moving abroad,  Mrs J had an overdraft  facility of up to £1750  on her account.  
She was overdrawn  at the time of moving.  
She continued to use her account, for some purchases and to make payments to her credit 
card account  and to a savings account  up until early  2016. After this time she does not 
appear to have used  the account  other than in mid-2016  when a payment was made into the 
account to bring  it back inside the overdraft limit. 
After this period,  as monthly overdraft interest  was added to the account  it exceeded  the 
limit. 
In autumn 2016,  HSBC withdrew Mrs Js authorised overdraft facility, leaving her with an 
unauthorised overdraft of more than £1800.  
HSBC wrote to Mrs J in October 2016, with a demand for repayment of the overdraft.  
A formal demand was then sent in December 2016.  
HSBC did not hear from Mrs J, or receive payment of the overdraft so closed the account in 
January 2017  and defaulted the account. 
Mrs J, during a return visit to the UK in April 2017,  received correspondence at her family 
address from a debt recovery company. She misread the details and believed it to be linked 
to another debt.  She began making  payments to the debt recovery  company. 
Mrs J permanently returned  to the UK in October  2017. She later applied for a mortgage and 
learned that a default had been  registered on her credit file by HSBC, making it difficult  for 
her to obtain credit.
She contacted HSBC  and made  payment of the remaining balance, of around  £1400.  
HSBC then marked the debt as settled  on her credit file. 
Mrs J complained to HSBC in April 2018. She complained that HSBC had not tried to contact 
her by means other  than post,  to alert her that the account was being closed. She said that 
she had received all other  post that was redirected  to her family member,  but had not 
received correspondence from HSBC, causing her to believe that it was not sent.  
Ref: DRN73164862HSBC sent its final response to Mrs J in April 2018.  It rejected her complaint and set out 
details of the correspondence  that had been sent to her. It reminded her that consumers are 
responsible for monitoring their account  balances. 
Mrs J was not happy with the response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked at this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that HSBC had demonstrated that it has sent all required notifications  to Mrs J and had 
acted fairly.  He did not recommend that HSBC do anything further. 
Mrs J did not accept  this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  reviewed the statements  of Mrs Js account, and the available  
correspondence from HSBC to Mrs J, asking her to bring her account  back in line. 
On reviewing the statements, I can see that Mrs J used her overdraft  facility  consistently 
from at least 2013.  Over the period from 2013,  the account was frequently near to its 
overdraft limit, and was rarely brought into credit. 
The statements  show  that Mrs J continued  to use her account  after moving abroad,  making 
regular payments to credit  cards, and into a savings account. Payments were also made into 
the account when it reached its limit. 
This activity stopped  in early 2016 and the account effectively became inactive. HSBC has 
demonstrated that it sent letters to Mrs Js registered address informing her that she needed  
to bring the account back within its limits, and then when  the overdraft facility  was removed, 
that she needed to settle the outstanding balance. 
I accept that Mrs J did not receive these, but this does not alter the evidence that they were 
sent. 
Mrs J then left her account without payment into the account until it was closed in January 
2017. HSBC subsequently registered a default  against Mrs Js credit file. 
Mrs J thinks that HSBC  should have made greater efforts to contact her to warn  her that the 
account would be closed, as it had an email  address  for her which it used for marketing 
purposes. 
Whilst it may have been helpful to send additional  communication, I agree with the 
adjudicators view that it was the responsibility of Mrs J to manage her account and to 
ensure that it remained within its limits.  It was also her responsibility  to ensure that the 
address held with HSBC  was appropriate for correspondence. 
On the basis of the conduct of the account  and the evidence of the transactions  ceasing, I 
think it likely  that Mrs J was aware of the account  balance and had the facility  to manage the 
account, but did not do so. 
Ref: DRN73164863Given that the account was inactive, and no action had been taken in response to HSBCs 
letters, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to close the account and register  a default. 
Whilst it is unfortunate that this has had an impact upon Mrs J, I do not think that HSBC was 
wrong to take this action. 
I note that Mrs J has settled the debt and wishes the default  to be removed. I do not criticise 
HSBCs refusal  to amend  the information  on Mrs Js credit file as this information is an 
accurate reflection of the way the account  was run. 
Consequently, whilst  I sympathise with Mrs Js position, I do not uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint  and do not ask HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316486