K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the way Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) handled her travel 
insurance claim after she fell ill abroad. Her father Mr R has brought this complaint on her 
behalf.
My references to IPA include its agents. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said that I intended to uphold the complaint.  In response to my decision Mr R 
pointed out that the events happened in 2018,  not 2017. I am sorry for my error. Ive 
amended the extract  from my provisional decision below to show  the correct  dates:
Miss R was on a long haul trip when she suddenly  fell ill in very distressing circumstances. 
I understand she suffered a psychotic episode,  which meant  that on 3 January 2018 she was 
committed to a hospital under mental  health  legislation.
Miss Rs family was contacted by the police, and her father and brother flew out to support 
her. It wasnt until 16 February 2018 that Miss R came back  to the UK. At that point  Miss Rs 
brother had returned to the UK. Her uncle, Mr Rs brother, flew out to help escort her home. 
Mr R notified IPA of the claim. Unfortunately the service IPA provided fell very short of the 
standard Miss R could  reasonably have  expected  when she took out her travel  insurance 
with it. It offered Mr R £1,000 compensation, which he thought  wasnt  nearly enough.
Our investigator initially suggested  a higher compensation figure of £2,000. But IPA wouldnt 
offer this. Our investigator then explained to Mr R that we could make an award only for 
Miss Rs distress and inconvenience,  as she was the policyholder and the person eligible to 
complain to us. The circumstances meant Miss R wasnt fully aware of the difficulties her 
family were experiencing, so our investigator  didnt recommend  any compensation to her. 
Mr R isnt the policyholder  so we didnt comment on whether the amount IPA offered to him 
was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree and pointed out that IPA had not fully settled the claim for their out of 
pocket expenses. We set up another complaint about that, which  has now been  settled. IPA 
has paid Mr R for the expenses incurred on his daughters behalf in caring for her and 
arranging for her to return to the UK. It also paid £200 for errors in its letters and claim 
calculations.
The complaint about the service provided by IPA while  she was abroad  has come to me for 
review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been very sorry to hear about Miss Rs illness abroad, which  was clearly incredibly 
distressing for her and her family. 
Ref: DRN74980312The complaint about the claims  payments has now been concluded. So my decision is 
confined to the complaint about IPAs  service from the time Mr R contacted it about his 
daughters illness to the time she returned to the UK, accompanied by Mr R and her uncle.
In IPAs final response letter it said:
It agreed the service  wasnt of the high standard  Miss R (and Mr R) should expect.
Mr R contacted it on 4 January 2018  when he was about  to travel to see her. 
Although it was aware of her situation  and the severity  of her illness it continued to 
contact her for her signature on the release of information  form. It ignored  the 
severity of her illness despite the information it had been  given both by Mr R and the 
hospital. It offered  its sincere apologies for the insensitive manner in which it had 
handled the case. 
The communication throughout the claim was poor, and its assistance team  
contacted Miss R directly a number of times, without  consideration of her medical 
state and incapacity.  It failed to answer a number of Mr Rs emails asking for 
assistance and it acknowledged its disappointment that he was abandoned without 
assistance or guidance. It failed to give him accommodation and didnt give him any 
support or assistance during his stay.
Although IPA had not confirmed Miss Rs cover  under the policy at the point of 
departure, it should  have offered non-financial  assistance (in other words helped 
Mr R with arranging the flights home  but at his expense). Instead  Mr R arranged  her 
return home with the help of the hospital  staff. It said he could submit a claim for this.
It apologised again for the poor communication  and lack of service, which caused 
Mr Rs family  the utmost distress. It said it would feedback to the relevant managers 
for action to be taken  over the issues it had identified. It offered Mr R £1,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mr Rs response  to this, and our investigators findings, was that £1,000 was inadequate. In 
particular he said:
IPA got his daughters name  wrong  in the final response letter, and to add insult  to 
injury it then sent her a survey  by text about her experience. This further upset the 
family, which had been caused unbearable  stress,  anxiety,  distress  and 
inconvenience due to the total lack of care when needed. Its compensation offer 
didnt reflect this.
He felt IPAs response was very general in nature. He also wanted  the claim 
settlement paid for all the expenses (this was dealt with under the other complaint so 
I wont comment further in this decision). 
He would have  liked our investigator  to comment on whether IPAs offer to him 
seemed fair. He questioned why IPA told him to refer the complaint to this service 
even though it knew we could help only the policyholder, his daughter.
Because IPAs  decision about the policy cover  was delayed  until 8 February he had 
to make the difficult decision to fly his son home  (he had to return  to university)  and 
fly out his brother Miss Rs uncle   who came out on unpaid  leave.
IPA was explicitly told not to phone his wife, Miss Rs mother, as she was in a very 
poor state of mind.  But IPA called her several times, inappropriately asking how she 
was. This was not helpful.
Miss R should have returned home  at least two weeks before her actual departure 
date, due to the delay  in cover. She should  be considered for compensation as she 
was kept away  from her mother for longer than necessary.
Ref: DRN74980313IPA had all the necessary  information  to decide about the claim by 15 January, but 
kept digging as it was convinced her illness was due to drugs or alcohol. This 
included employing  an investigator  locally to try and trip them up. IPA asked for a full 
pathology report, when the hospital  had already confirmed nil drugs in blood or urine 
on his daughters admission. The decision was made on 8 February which  was also 
conveniently the date the hospital  confirmed she could fly home  the following week  
with at least two relatives. He had to arrange for the emergency passport and 
transport to the airport. IPA didnt  cover the costs (although this issue  has now been 
settled in the other complaint).
He suggested  we speak with the hospital abroad and his daughters GP about the 
shocking experience they encountered when dealing with IPA. 
Hes looking  for at least  £5,000  compensation for the distress and inconvenience to 
his family  which has continued.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence.  We wouldnt  usually contact the hospital  or GP 
directly for additional evidence, and we havent  done  so in this case.  That said Im willing to 
consider any additional  evidence either party would like to provide  in response to this 
provisional decision. If additional  time is required I will consider a request for a reasonable 
extension of time.
Theres no dispute that IPAs service  fell woefully short of the level that Miss R (and her 
family) should reasonably have expected. IPA has acknowledged this, and has apologised.  
The issue  that I need to decide  is whether  IPA should pay Miss R compensation. I think  it 
should and Ill explain why.
At the outset, I should say that IPA was entitled to establish whether Miss Rs claim was 
covered under the policy terms. Ive looked into whether the steps it took to do that seemed  
reasonable and timely. 
As Mr R says,  IPA did have concerns that Miss Rs illness might have been  the result  of 
drugs or alcohol.  It did appoint a local investigator, but I dont think this was with the intention  
to trip up Miss R and her family.  Having  read the notes, it seems  to me that IPA appointed  
the investigator not just because of the circumstances  but also because it hadnt done  
enough at that stage  to assist Miss R and her family. The investigator liaised with Mr R and 
his son, the police and the hospital  to establish  the circumstances of her admission  to 
hospital. I see Mr R himself  acknowledged the investigator was excellent  and did more to 
assist than IPA had done in the two weeks  since hed first contacted it.
I can see IPA would want to consider whether  the illness was caused by (illegal) drugs, 
which wouldnt have been covered  under the policy terms. But I think  there was little 
substantive evidence that Miss Rs illness was due to drugs  and/or  alcohol. The medical 
report from admission showed no drugs  or alcohol in her system. And I think that by the time 
IPA was given  the investigators preliminary  report around 19 January that it could 
reasonably have concluded  that drugs and/or  excess  alcohol werent involved. 
Ref: DRN74980314But the drug issue wasnt the only reason for the delay in confirming  cover. IPA had received 
some medical information which suggested  Miss R had stopped taking anti-depressants 
before she travelled. Its medical team said that it needed to ask her GP for further 
information about this. Also, the medical records it had received were  incomplete at that 
point. On 26 January  the medical  team suggested  going back  to the GP for the full medical 
history and the GPs advice about  stopping  the anti-depressants and whether  Miss R had 
been fit to travel. Again, I dont think IPA was wrong to do this. I do think it could have asked 
for this information and chased it earlier than it did. 
There was an additional issue  that IPA thought Miss R might  have  failed to answer  its 
questions about  her medical  history with reasonable care, at the point she took out the 
policy. It later established that it would  have charged  her a higher premium had it known 
about another health issue. So it said it would pay the claim in proportion to the amount of 
premium shed actually  paid, as compared  with the premium she would have  paid. IPA did 
tell Mr R about this when confirmed cover (and his complaint about errors in its letters  was 
dealt with under the other complaint).
So again  IPA was entitled to make enquiries to establish cover. But it seems  to me it 
received the GPs response  a letter and the full medical history   on 2 February and it 
wasnt until 8 February  that it confirmed  to Mr R (via his brother) that it would cover the claim 
proportionately. This took too long.  Mr R was chasing for an answer.  The whole situation 
was clearly highly distressing and I think IPA should  have  done more. As it said it could have 
offered non-financial support to Mr R, meaning  it could have arranged  the return  journey.
The next issue is whether Miss R could have returned earlier  than she did, had IPA 
confirmed cover earlier. As Mr R says the medical  report confirming Miss R would be fit to fly 
a week later did coincide with IPAs decision to cover the claim. Ive read the report  which  
shows that Miss R had improved by that stage, and shed  had some  time off the ward with 
her family. The medical advice was that travel  should be with a medical  escort because of 
concerns that long haul travel might cause  her condition to worsen. But in the end it was 
agreed that Miss R could  travel home with her father and uncle. 
I can see that the travel arrangements  did save IPA the expense of having  a medical escort  
to travel with Miss R, although I cant award compensation on that basis. 
So I need to consider whether and to what extent the delays affecting Miss R directly. Mr R 
explained she didnt  have capacity to make  decisions for herself, and she was sedated both 
before and after she returned  home. Its also clear from the medical  evidence  that by 
6 February shed had gradual improvement, she was less disinhibited, could take direction 
and she was more  oriented and self-aware.  The medical evidence  is that thered been 
significant improvement  in the clarity of her thoughts, which were  more logical, structured 
and appropriate.  
Im not sure I can fairly say, based on the medical evidence,  that Miss R was well enough  to 
return to the UK earlier than she did. And I see she was being  cared  for in hospital until the 
day before  her flight home. 
Ref: DRN74980315Its also difficult to say whether and to what extent she herself was impacted by the highly 
stressful situation her family were  experiencing due to the poor service  by IPA. But given the 
medical report that shed  had a significant  improvement  I cant  see that shed have been 
unaware of her stressful situation  with IPA, no matter how much her father,  brother and 
uncle would have  tried to shield her from it. Also, her family  had to spend time making 
arrangements for the return journey and emergency  passport  which inevitably meant less 
time spent  supporting Miss R. 
So I think its fair to make  an award to Miss R. My awards are not designed to punish a 
business for its wrongdoing. I must consider the impact on the consumer. And as our 
investigator has explained I can award compensation only to the person who is the eligible 
complainant under our rules  and here thats Miss R as the policyholder. 
Based on my provisional findings that there  was some impact on Miss R by IPAs poor 
service I think  an award of £500  to Miss R is fair and reasonable. As Mr R will appreciate, 
I cant award her compensation simply because she suffered  a distressing illness  while 
abroad. And my award isnt punitive  against  IPA. It is a reflection of the fact that I consider 
she must have been impacted to some  extent by the stressful situation caused  by IPAs poor 
service to her family, at a time that their focus should have been entirely on her. 
To be clear, this is separate and additional  to the amount of £1,000 that IPA has offered to 
Mr R for its failings,  including its failure to respond  to his messages and its insensitivity in 
contacting Miss Rs mother inappropriately. I cant award him compensation but its open to 
him to accept IPAs  offer directly.
I cant offer an opinion on whether IPAs offer to Mr R is fair and reasonable, as hes not an 
eligible complainant in this complaint. Its right that IPA has acknowledged  and apologised 
for its poor service. But I can say that IPAs  offer to Mr R is one that Id consider to be 
substantial. There is further guidance  about  our awards on our website, under 
compensation for trouble and upset.
I appreciate Mr R was concerned that IPA referred him to this service, if we couldnt help 
him. But IPA is required  by its regulator to give referral rights, even  if it considers a complaint 
isnt one we can consider.
In summary  I said I intended to require IPA to pay Miss R £500 compensation for distress.  
I said this proposed award was entirely  separate  and additional  to the compensation  offer 
that AXA made to Mr R.
responses to my provisional  decision
As Ive mentioned,  Mr R responded  to correct the dates the events occurred, but otherwise 
didnt have any further comments to add. 
IPA responded  to say that the offer of £1,000 had been made to Mr R because he was 
acting on Miss Rs behalf. The payment hadnt  yet been made, as Mr R had contested  it, and 
IPA wouldnt pay the money to a non-policy  holder as Id mentioned in my provisional 
decision. IPA couldnt  understand why we thought the offer had been  made  to Mr R. 
Ref: DRN74980316developments
I explained to IPA that its£1,000 offer had been  made to Mr R for the problems he (rather 
than Miss R) had experienced while abroad. I asked  it to confirm that the offer was still 
available for Mr R to accept  as if it wasnt both Miss R and Mr R would need to know  that 
before my final decision was issued.  
IPA explained  it had addressed the £1,000 offer to Mr R because at that time Miss R wasnt 
capable of managing the complaint, so had asked him to do that on her behalf. But before 
making the payment it would ask for Miss Rs authority that she was happy  for payment to 
be made to Mr R. 
IPA noted that Id said Miss Rs distress warrants a payment  of £500  so £500 less than its 
initial offer. It wouldnt look to retract the £1,000 offer, and would still be satisfied  to process 
this, but didnt agree it should  be liable to pay £1,500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  IPAs comments. But for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and here I still think it should  pay her £500  compensation in addition to the offer of 
£1,000 compensation it made  to Mr R.  
Ive noted IPAs comments that its offer of £1,000  had been made to Mr R because he was 
acting on Miss Rs behalf. I see that the final response when it made that offer referred to its 
attempts to contact  Miss R incorrectly, but most  of the letter referred to the issues Mr R had 
experienced. That is, IPAs failure  to: communicate with Mr R; assist  with accommodation; or 
to offer non-financial assistance meaning  Mr R had to make  arrangements  to bring  Miss R 
home without their support.
I understand the reasons  IPA addressed the offer to Mr R. But I dont  consider the offer was 
for Miss Rs distress   it was for the distress and inconvenience  that Mr R had suffered in 
looking after her without  its support, at a particular difficult time for him. 
To be clear, I dont think IPAs offer of £1,000  was for Miss Rs distress.  As Ive said IPA 
mentioned only its attempts wrongly to contact her in its final response letter. So Im not 
awarding her £500 less than its initial offer. Rather, I think £500  is fair for Miss Rs distress, 
because of the impact  on her caused by Mr R having to make all the arrangements without 
any support from IPA. So I award Miss R £500  compensation.
Ive already explained that I cant award Mr R compensation. And IPA has confirmed its not 
retracting its offer of £1,000 to him. It will need Miss Rs authority, as its policyholder, to 
make that payment  to him. As I said in my provisional decision its open to him to contact 
IPA directly to accept that offer,  and IPA has clarified that Miss R will need to authorise the 
payment to be made to him. But to be clear the compensation offer of £1,000  that IPA has 
made to him is in addition to the £500  compensation that Im awarding Miss R  not instead 
of that offer.  
Ref: DRN74980317my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given both in my provisional  decision  and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint. I order Inter Partner Assistance  SA to pay Miss R £500  compensation for 
distress. This award is entirely separate and additional to the £1,000 compensation offer that 
IPA made  to Mr R, which it has confirmed it has not retracted.
IPA must pay the £500 compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss R a certificate showing this if she (or Mr R on her behalf) asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7498031