K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handled a claim Mr M 
attempted to make  under  a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
All references in this decision  to the actions  of Aviva include those of its agent, with some 
exceptions wherever Ive found it helpful to distinguish between the two.
background
Very briefly, in 1992 Mr M was made  redundant by his then employer and tried to claim 
under his policy. No claim was recorded by the agent at the time and no benefits were  paid.  
In 2017 Mr M complained  about the matter, saying that hed been mis-sold the policy  as it 
hadnt responded as it should have in 1992.  The agent didnt agree that the PPI had been 
mis-sold and Mr and Mrs M referred  a complaint to us.
Following our involvement, Aviva accepted responsibility for the actions  of its agent in 1992  
and agreed to pay a sum equivalent  to 12 monthly benefit payments. Mr M said the non-
payment of his claim had caused him significant  financial loss beyond just the amount due 
under the policy  since, among other things, hed been forced  to arrange further loans to 
cover his living expenses. He said hed also suffered  distress  and inconvenience.  Aviva 
agreed to add interest to the claim  payments  and pay £250 as compensation for the distress  
it had caused  but Mr M remained  unhappy.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended that it be upheld  in 
part. He agreed  with Avivas decision to pay the claim  in full with interest,  and also to pay 
£250 compensation. But the adjudicator went further  and also asked Aviva to compensate 
Mr M for:
a loan of £8,140 he took in 1992 that would have  been smaller had the claim been 
paid when it was due (loan one); and
a loan of £5,000 he took in 1997 around  the time loan one was settled that he 
wouldnt otherwise  have taken (loan  two);  and
a loan he took of £15,000 in 2000  which refinanced  loan two and that would have 
been smaller had the claim been  paid when it was due (loan three).
Aviva disagreed with the adjudicator regarding its liability for loans two and three on the 
grounds that these  far exceeded the original claim amount.  
Mr M said Aviva should also reimburse him for bank account fees, costs and charges 
incurred between 1994 and 2000  as a result of the claim not being paid and for a packaged 
bank account  he had to upgrade to in order  to secure loan three.
As the parties didnt fully accept the adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72924542Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Helpfully, several issues  have been  addressed and agreed by the parties up to this point. 
For example, its no longer in dispute  that Aviva was responsible  for the actions of its agent 
in 1992. And Aviva  no longer believes the complaint should be time barred under our rules.  It 
also agrees that the claim itself should  be paid with interest and that its caused Mr M 
distress and inconvenience. 
Nevertheless, this has been  a difficult  case  to decide  not just because of how long ago 
Mr M first tried to make a claim,  but also in determining whether or not events that took place 
several years after that time would still have happened, or would have happened differently, 
had he been allowed  to claim.
Clearly, I cant  know for sure what would have  happened if Mr Ms claim had been paid soon 
after he tried to make it. But  on the balance of the available evidence  (and Im thankful to 
Mr M, especially, for everything hes provided)  I find it likely that the impact was far-
reaching.
Aviva argues  its liability should end after Mr M arranged  loan one, given the total claim 
amount of £3,600 and the size of the loans he subsequently took,  which were larger.  But I 
think thats too simplistic an approach. In my view, the sequence of events surrounding loans 
one to three, and their timing, sufficiently indicates  a link between  them  and non-payment of 
Mr Ms claim. 
Beyond 2000 the circumstances surrounding the loans Mr M took are less clear, making it 
much more difficult to relate  them back to the original event. 
Thats not to say that everything that happened before 2000 can fairly be attributed to Aviva. 
So where Mr M argues  Aviva should  reimburse his bank account  fees,  costs  and charges 
between 1994  and 2000, Ive taken into consideration that the PPI covered his mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months. As helpful as it would have been, the PPI was never  intended 
to replace his lost income or cover any of his other  living costs which hed have continued  to 
incur while unemployed.  Im also mindful that Mr M remained unemployed for longer than the 
policy benefits would have paid out for. That, in itself, is likely to have impacted on Mr Ms 
finances to some extent.  As such,  I dont find that Aviva should cover  the bank  charges he 
refers to.
In terms of the packaged bank account  fees Mr M says he paid to secure  loan three, it could 
well be that hed have  paid them even in taking out a smaller loan. It may also be the case 
that he benefitted from other features  of the account, including  preferential loan rates,  which 
were of the same or higher value than the account fees he paid. Overall, Im not persuaded 
that Aviva  should cover  these fees.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Aviva should  put things right for Mr M 
regarding loans one to three  but not regarding the other loans  he took or other aspects of his 
financial situation. 
Ive carefully considered  Avivas offer of compensation for the inconvenience and upset its 
caused Mr M. While  I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling on the matter  Im of the opinion 
that £250, in addition to the compensation for financial loss Aviva  must pay, is fair in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN72924543my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  
Limited to:
pay Mr Ms claim in full plus interest* from the date each benefit payment was due 
until the date of payment; and
work out and pay Mr M the difference between what he paid in interest  for loans  one 
and three and what hed have paid in interest  had the claim been  paid on time and 
the loans been  smaller by £3,600 and £5,000 respectively, plus interest*; and
work out and pay Mr M the interest he was charged on loan two, plus interest*;  plus
pay Mr M £250 as compensation for the inconvenience and upset its caused him.
*Interest should be paid at the simple rate of 8%, or 15% on payments before  April 1993. Businesses  have to 
take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim  this back if he doesnt pay tax.
Its open to Aviva Insurance Limited to deduct  from the above  any relevant payments its 
already made to Mr M in response to the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7292454