K820x#14complaint
Mr A isnt happy with how Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has offered to settle 
his complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a store  card 
ending 4910. 
In this case it has been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, take responsibility  for the 
complaint. So Ill be referring to FICL  throughout my decision. 
Mr A has other complaints about  other store cards he has, or had with FICL and they have 
been dealt with separately by our service and they have different reference  numbers. 
To be clear, this decision is only about Mr As store card ending 4910.
background
Mr A took out a PPI policy alongside  a store card in 1996. Mr A made a complaint that the 
PPI policy  had been mis-sold. FICL  agreed  and calculated how much  it owed Mr A in 
compensation. 
FICL said it doesnt have  statement data for Mr As store  card account. And it only has basic  
computer records about the account.  FICL  has used  this information to try and put Mr A in 
the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt had PPI on the account.
Its basic records show that Mr A was charged  a total of £97.40 in PPI premiums.  
It used this information to work out how much  Mr A may have been charged because of PPI. 
It calculated that Mr A paid £97.40 in PPI premiums and it assumed those PPI premiums 
caused him to be charged £54.61 in card interest.  It then offered  Mr A 8% simple interest per 
year  to compensate  him for the time he was out of pocket. This came to £121.24  after tax.
So FICLs total offer of compensation is £273.25, after tax. 
Mr A isnt happy with FICLs records and he thinks he paid more towards PPI than FICL has 
worked out and has asked us to check that the offer is fair.
Our adjudicator looked at what FICL had offered and thought that its offer was fair.
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Because the complaint  hasnt been  resolved it has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL has already  agreed to settle Mr As PPI mis-sale  complaint.  So I wont  be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute. 
Ref: DRN70737062In this decision I will only be considering whether  the approach FICL has taken to 
compensate Mr A in this case  is fair. And Im sorry to disappoint  Mr A but I think it is. Ill 
explain why. 
what is PPI and how is it charged
PPI is an insurance policy  which was sold alongside certain types  of credit.  It normally  
covered part or all of a consumers monthly  repayments towards  the credit for a pre-agreed  
period if they were  out of work.
For a store  card, the PPIs cost is defined by the outstanding balance that is on the store 
card. In Mr As case it was likely  to be no more than £1 for every £100  of the outstanding 
balance. So if Mr A had an outstanding  balance  on his store  card of £500 then Mr A would 
be charged £5 for PPI that month. But if the store card wasnt being used and there wasnt  a 
balance, then no PPI would be charged that month. 
our approach to compensation  
When a business  agrees  to settle  a PPI complaint Id expect  it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy.  
As far as is possible  is important to highlight here, since theres  no way of knowing exactly 
what an account may have looked  like if it didnt  have  PPI attached. But Id expect a 
business to use what information it does have  and take a fair approach.  Its especially  
difficult in complaints like Mr As  where there is very limited information.  
With a PPI policy attached to a store card, Id expect a business  to refund any overpayments  
a consumer made on the store card because of PPI (typically  PPI premiums and the 
associated interest charged  on those  PPI premiums), any fees/charges  directly  caused by 
the PPI and 8% simple  interest per year  to compensate a consumer if they have been out 
of pocket. 
the evidence available  in this case
Mr A is unhappy with the lack of evidence FICL has. But its understandable that FICL 
doesnt have full information and records (including  statements) about  Mr As account.  The 
store card and PPI policy  were taken out a very long time ago and businesses arent 
expected to keep records indefinitely. But it has basic  computer records  about his account.  
Ive seen a copy  of the computer records and I have no reason to doubt  that these are 
genuine.
The basic  records FICL has show the account number of the card and some details about 
the PPI policy  including the method of sale, which  was in store, the start date (1996). It also 
knows that Mr As account  became inactive at some point and was cancelled.  And this is 
because FICL has statement data for its consumers from August 2005 and it knows Mr A 
wasnt charged PPI after this point. 
It also has a row labelled Lifetime Premiums Charged and this says £97.40. This shows 
that Mr A was only ever charged £97.40 in PPI premiums. And this could have only been 
between 1996  up to 2005 when FICL  has actual statement  data, and it knows Mr A wasnt 
charged anything  for PPI beyond this point.
Ref: DRN70737063the approach  FICL has taken using this information
So FICL didnt  know  how Mr A used his card on a month by month basis.  That is to say it 
didnt know exactly what Mr A spent and when  and what he was charged in PPI premiums 
each month  over the duration of the policy, or if he was not charged  anything at all in some 
months. But it had enough information to be able to work  out a fair offer.  And Ill explain how.
As FICL knew the total amount Mr A was ever charged in PPI premiums (£97.40) it could 
use this amount to calculate the approximate  interest that the PPI premiums  attracted 
throughout the life time of the policy. It worked  out what the average monthly  premium  would 
have been over the possible  maximum  duration  of the policy  and therefore what the 
approximate interest on those monthly premiums would be.
So it calculated that Mr A paid £97.40 in PPI premiums (as it knows he did) and it has 
calculated that Mr A was likely charged  £54.61  in card interest because of the PPI 
premiums. 
And it has offered  him some additional  compensation for the time he has been out of pocket 
of this money.
Mr As concern that he spent a lot on this store card
I appreciate that Mr A thought he had spent more on his card in the duration he had the 
policy  but FICL has the records of the total he was ever charged for PPI over the maximum 
possible lifetime he held the policy. And as Ive said, I have no reason to doubt these 
records. And I think these records show he didnt spend as much on his store  card as he 
thought he did.
summary
Overall, FICL knew what Mr A was charged over the lifetime he held the policy and it has 
used this information to work out what he was likely  charged in associated interest on those  
premiums. And it offered some additional compensation for the time Mr A has been out of 
pocket of this money.
Its offer of compensation  is fair and in line with what Id expect to see and as far as is 
possible it puts Mr A in the position as if he had never taken PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Financial Insurance Company  Limited has calculated Mr As 
offer fairly. And it doesnt need to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7073706