K820x#14complaint
Mr P says IG Index Limited  (IG) did as follows:
Gave him misleading information about  an ex-dividend payment for his spread-bet  
positions. It told him the payment would  increase  the cash balance in his account but 
would not adjust his positions (including  his guaranteed stop position and margin  on 
balance). The payment did both.  The misinformation led him to hold the positions  
over the ex-dividend date, with exposure to higher  risk. The correct information  would 
have prompted  him to close the positions before  the ex-dividend date.
There was a shortfall between the amount used to adjust his positions and the 
amount of cash credited to his account  plus an error  in this respect. The shortfall  
had the net effect  of the increase  to his risk exposure.
background
Mr P says the full value  of the ex-dividend payment was applied  to his open  positions; this 
had the effect  of increasing his guaranteed  stop setting and therefore his margin on deposit 
by that value; which had the effect of increasing  his margin call out level by that value; the 
value outweighed the cash  payment and increase to his cash balance  which was less than 
the full value of the ex-dividend payment;  this shortfall created the net increase in his 
exposure to risk, it moved  him closer  to a margin call in the percentage of the shortfall. 
IG disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
The information given  to Mr P about a cash adjustment  was accurate  he did 
receive a cash adjustment. His positions  related to a stock with dividends which 
attracted a 15% withholding tax, so his cash receipt was supposed  to be 85% of the 
ex-dividend related  payment. Unfortunately an error occurred and only 75% of the 
payment was initially made however  this was promptly corrected  to reach  the 85% 
payment. It has made a £150 payment to Mr P for the trouble and upset caused by 
the error.  Other than the error,  the 15% shortfall  was legitimate due to deduction of 
the withholding tax.
The agreed terms for the account say that such a cash adjustment  applied in the 
circumstances (positively  for long positions and negatively for short positions) so it 
acted within those  terms in this respect.  The terms also confirm that it reserved the 
right to adjust the guaranteed stop setting for open  positions by the value of  the 
dividend adjustment. As such it was consistent with the agreed terms by adjusting 
Mr Ps guaranteed  stop setting. It should be noted that an increase in the running 
loss within his account at the time negated  the effect of the cash payment/increase, 
but that is a matter  it is not responsible for.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for broadly similar reasons to those  given  by IG. She did not accept that that IG 
was wrong not to tell Mr P, during relevant telephone calls ahead of the ex-dividend date, 
about the potential guaranteed stop setting increase because  his questions  did not 
specifically query this. She also referred to the execution only basis for Mr Ps account.  Mr P 
disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN70521902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps pursuit is to be put into the position  he says he would have been in if he was 
forewarned about  the potential guaranteed  stop setting increase  due to the ex-dividend 
payment. He says he would have closed his positions prior to the ex-dividend date,  so he 
seeks redress to replicate that. There does not appear to be a claim for an actual financial 
loss and, in this respect, I note a comment from Mr P to IG in which  he said  
 financial  implications are not necessary for a complaint to be made. I am complaining at 
the emotional implications  (confusion, distress, inconvenience) which are all separate. As 
well as the increased risk I was exposed to because of IGs mistake .
The second  issue   about the erroneous cash payment  has been resolved, by correction 
of the error and by the £150 paid to Mr P in this respect. I do not address this issue further.
With regards to the alleged misinformation, I understand  Mr Ps point because  he has 
explained to us his thinking behind the enquiries  he put to IG prior to the ex-dividend date. 
However, the pivotal  point  is that he does not appear to have provided IG with a clear 
explanation of his thinking at the time  in order for IG to directly  address that. I have not 
seen evidence in which he explained  to IG that his enquiries about the manner of payment  
were specifically related  to his wish to avoid any increase to his guaranteed stop setting and 
his margin on deposit  and to avoid  getting  any closer to a margin  call level.
My consideration of the telephone conversations between the parties is that IG gave 
accurate information  about a cash adjustment  which did occur   and that whilst Mr P 
loosely queried  whether  his positions would be  lengthened or something ... IG retained 
its references to the cash adjustment.  I appreciate Mr Ps argument that his query about the 
positions should have prompted  a relevant response  from IG. That did not happen and, on 
balance, I consider that was a consequence  of his enquiry not being sufficiently direct  in 
terms of his aim  and/or not including an explanation that, and of why, he was seeking  to 
avoid any adjustment  to his positions (especially  with regards to the guaranteed stop setting 
and margin deposit). It is feasible  that the official he spoke to understood that he was mainly 
concerned about  how the cash payment would be made. The transcripts  of the 
conversations show  that he mainly  (and repeatedly) made queries about that.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Mr P was misled in the matter.
With regards to the shortfall  he has referred  to, I am not completely satisfied with IGs 
position. The shortfall was created because the positions were  adjusted to reflect 100% of 
the ex-dividend  payment/value  but the cash payment  applied  to the account was 85% of that 
value (due to the deducted withholding tax). IG says this was correctly done. However, the 
relevant terms say that the dividend adjustment payable to a client is the  cash 
adjustment reflecting the amount of the net dividend receivable by a UK taxpayer holding the 
equivalent position in the relevant financial instrument and will be credited to your account. 
[my emphasis] The terms also say that where IG makes a dividend  adjustment (based on 
the above definition) it can adjust the guaranteed  stop level for the clients position   by the 
size of the dividend adjustment.  [my  emphasis]
Ref: DRN70521903The above  suggests that both the cash adjustment and the adjustment  to the guaranteed 
stop level must match in value   that is, based  on the net cash  adjustment.  In Mr Ps case,  
that does not appear to have happened. He received the net cash payment but the full/gross 
value appears  to have been applied to the guaranteed  stop level  hence the shortfall.
Having said the above, I do not consider this a basis to alter the investigators  conclusion 
that the complaint should not be upheld. There is no evidence of a financial loss arising 
directly from this shortfall issue  Mr Ps assertion is only that it increased  his exposure to 
risk. Furthermore, I consider that any error in this respect  was more likely (than not) related 
to the error in the cash payment issue  at or around  the time of settling the account with the 
ex-dividend payment  and that the resolution  reached between the parties for that issue 
sufficiently covers both errors.  The shortfall  issue also does  not alter the crux of Mr Ps 
complaint about  being misled at the outset and I have already concluded that, on balance, 
he was not misled.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052190