K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained that one of the safety deposit boxes he held with National Westminster 
Bank Pic couldnt  be located. When it was later found, it was damaged  and empty.
background
Mr K said that he wanted to access safety  deposit  boxes  held for him by NatWest.  He said
that at first the boxes couldnt be located,  but then a couple of months later NatWest  said it
had found them. But one of the boxes was damaged. The lock was broken and it was empty.
Mr K told us that he had lost a collection of valuable jewellery and investment gold coins.  He
said these were purchased for family, and couldnt be replaced.  He said that he wanted
these specific items  back, but if they couldnt be found, he wanted  compensation for the loss.
NatWest has accepted that the box was stored incorrectly, which was why it couldnt  be
found. It has since explained that the barcode on the box had been  changed,  it had always
been kept secure. NatWest didnt think that the items had gone missing  from the box.
NatWest said that there was a handwritten note in the box which said it was emptied  on 15
February 2007 at 16hrs. NatWest said it had other  evidence that showed  Mrs K visited  the
branch on the same  date, and had taken  items  from other boxes held there. NatWest
thought that Mrs K had also removed the contents  of this box on 15 February  2007.
Mr K wasnt  happy to accept this explanation.  He said that NatWest doesnt  accept  damaged
boxes, so it wouldnt have  agreed  to keep  this damaged box in the vault. For that reason, he
said it must have been damaged after Mrs Ks visit. He also wanted to know  who had signed
off the written note.  He said this note provided  no proof that Mrs K had taken the items, and
asked why he or she would have stored an empty box with NatWest.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He thought  it was most likely
that Mrs K had taken  the items from this box at the same  time in 2007 when she accessed
the other boxes, and NatWest hadnt noted that.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought the lock on the box had been smashed, and he said anyone
could have put the note in the box at any time.  He repeated that NatWest wouldnt accept
open boxes for safekeeping, so he said that showed it was damaged after his wife went to
the branch. He said he hadnt been told the boxes were removed when the bank was
remodelled, otherwise he wouldve taken the boxes back then. He said that the likelihood
was that the box was damaged while in NatWests safekeeping, and so hed lost his items.
Mr K said that he had an employee of NatWest who verified all the boxes were full when Mrs
K visited, and is still employed by NatWest. Mr K didnt offer evidence from this person, or
identify them.
Mr K said that Mrs K wouldnt have stored an empty box. He said that our investigators view
was unjust, and the bank  should provide adequate  compensation.
Our investigator reconsidered, but he didnt change his mind.
Mr K replied,  to repeat that he thought that our investigators suggestion wasnt  plausible,
and it was more  likely  that items had been lost while  in the banks safe custody.  The note
Ref: DRN75292272didnt indicate  otherwise,  and wasnt in Mrs Ks writing. He still thought  that the boxes had
been incorrectly stored, damaged, and his items went missing. He still wanted NatWest to
pay for the missing items.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
When there is no definitive proof either  way of what has happened in a case, I need 
to consider whats most likely to have happened. There is no definitive proof here of 
what has happened to the contents  of the empty box which  was held by NatWest. So 
I have to think about whats most likely  to have happened.
Mr K says it just isnt likely  that Mrs K would have chosen to store an empty box. He 
says that NatWest wont store a damaged box. And he says that some items he 
placed in safekeeping with NatWest are missing.  He thinks  its most likely that the 
items went astray while NatWest had the box.
NatWest says that the note it found  in the box (apparently not seen by Mr K) is dated 
the same  day that Mrs K came into the branch  and emptied other  boxes. It thinks  its 
most likely that she took the contents  of the box.
I cannot be sure, beyond  any doubt  at all, what has happened. But I have to decide 
which of those scenarios  is most likely. And I think there are some  important points 
which do make  one scenario more  likely  than the other.
One is that Mr K hasnt  been charged  for the storage of the boxes in safe keeping. 
So it wouldnt have been obvious to Mr K, after 2007, that NatWest was still keeping  
not one but two boxes for him.
And the other  is that the box Mr K collected which was damaged and empty,  
apparently wasnt  obviously damaged.  The lock was broken on the inside of the box, 
and the lock mechanism was loose  in the box. But NatWest has told us that it didnt 
realise this until Mr K passed  the box back.  The damage it has described wouldnt be 
visible from the outside. 
We do know that Mrs K visited the branch in 2007,  and emptied a number of other
safekeeping boxes. NatWests records dont show that this box was accessed  then.  
But the note in the box is marked  with the same date.
What I think is most likely to have happened is this - Mrs K went to branch in 2007, 
and emptied a number  of boxes, including this one. The box may have been  
damaged at this point.
A note was placed  in it by staff, to say it had been  emptied. This note should have 
been a reminder  to add this box to the list of those taken out that day, but for some 
reason it was missed,  and the box was just replaced in safekeeping. The damage 
doesnt appear to have  been visible from the outside, so there was no reason  for staff 
to question this at the time.
Ref: DRN75292273It appears that NatWest  may not have mentioned this note to Mr K until some time 
after hed complained. But it looks, from the internal emails Ive seen, as if NatWest 
was hoping to locate some handwriting samples  from Mrs K, to see if they matched 
the note. Mr K has told us that this isnt Mrs Ks handwriting, and I dont  question  that. 
But I do think this explains why the note may not have been drawn to Mr Ks attention 
straight away.
I do think that NatWest has let Mr K down,  because it ought to have maintained  
better records, both to show when boxes were emptied, and so that his boxes  could 
be located promptly when  requested.  But I note that NatWest has paid Mr K £150  in 
compensation, and covered flight costs of over £1,000. It did that because  Mr K said 
he had to make another overseas trip, as his items hadnt been available  to him 
when he wanted  them.
I dont think NatWest has to do more than this. 
I know Mr K wont agree  with me, but I just dont think that its more likely that the box 
was damaged while it was in the safekeeping of NatWest.
Mr K has referred to other  evidence, including from an employee  of NatWest who he 
says verified the boxes  were full when Mrs K visited. He also told us initially that he 
had receipts for some of the items  held in the box which  he says were  missing 
(valuable coins). Mr K hasnt  yet shared that evidence with our service. He may wish 
to do so, in response  to this provisional decision, and I will consider that before 
reaching a final decision.
But, on the evidence  Ive seen so far, I dont think its most  likely that valuable  items
belonging to Mr K were lost while in NatWests safekeeping. And I dont think  it has to 
do more than it already  has. So I dont currently think this complaint  should  be 
upheld.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
NatWest didnt reply. Mr K responded to ask us to bear with him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K contacted us at the end of March, and asked us to bear with him. He said he would 
respond shortly. But that was over three weeks ago, and Mr K hasnt  contacted us again.  
The deadline  passed for a response  to my provisional decision more than two weeks ago. 
Our service has to be fair to both sides in a case.  And with no word from Mr K, I think  it is 
now appropriate for me to reach a decision in this case.
I havent changed my mind. I know Mr K will be disappointed, but I still dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill now make  the decision I originally proposed.
Ref: DRN75292274my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7529227