K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under Mrs Hs car
insurance policy which he is a named  driver. Mr K is also unhappy that AXA caused a delay
in returning the car and wrongly categorised  the salvage of it.
background
Mrs H bought a car insurance policy with AXA in August 2017. In September 2017 another
driver reported an incident to AXA. The other  driver said Mr K had collided with their car.
Mr K told AXA that when the collision happened, he had a panic attack and left the car to go
to a shop nearby.
The other drivers insurer told AXA Mr K had been arrested immediately after the incident
and a blood sample was taken from him. AXA investigated the claim. Mrs Hs car was
impounded after the incident. AXA instructed an engineer to inspect it. AXA told Mr K the car
was a total loss. AXA said it needed  to wait for the outcome  of the police  investigation before
it reached a decision  about the claim.
In March 2018 Mr K received a motor  conviction for driving a motor  vehicle  with a drug level
above the specified limit  otherwise called a DG10 conviction. Mr K was banned from
driving for three years.
In March 2018 AXA discussed the conviction with Mr K, but he said AXA should  still meet
the claim.  In April 2018 AXA wrote to Mrs H and said it wouldnt meet Mr Ks claim because
he had breached the terms  of the policy. It said that Mrs H could ask for the car to be
returned to her  but as it had been  categorised as S it had structural damage and so it
didnt recommend a return. AXA gave details of the options available  to Mrs H. AXA
explained that Mrs H would be responsible for the costs of the claim.
Mr K didnt agree with AXAs  decision. In April 2018 Mr K provided new information.  He told
AXA the DG10 conviction related to a blood sample he gave following an incident in July
2017  before Mrs H bought the policy with AXA. AXA asked Mr K to provide information to
support what he said.
In May 2018  AXA said the categorisation of the loss meant it couldnt return the car as it had
to be crushed due to the extent of the damage.
Mr K disputed this. He told AXA that the salvage  agent told him the car had been
categorised as S which meant it had structural damage - but it could  be repaired and 
returned to the owner. In May 2018 Mr K told AXA he was a passenger in the car in 
September 2017  so he wasnt driving when the incident happened.
Mr K asked us to look at things for him in July 2018.
In August  2018  our investigator contacted  AXA as he found  the categorisation of the car
was S which  meant it could be returned.  AXA agreed. In August 2018 AXA made  
arrangements for the car to be returned to Mr K.
Ref: DRN78979242We asked Mr K to provide  information  to show the DG10 conviction in March  2018 related to
a blood sample  he gave  in July 2017. He said the results from the blood  sample  he gave
following the September 2017 incident were  clear. Mr K hasnt provided any further
information. He doesnt believe its relevant as the July 2017 incident happened before
Mrs H bought her policy with AXA in August 2017.
The investigator thought AXA had reached its decision to decline  the claim in a reasonable
way. He thought AXA had caused delay by telling  Mr K the wrong  categorisation of his car 
which delayed returning the car to him. But he didnt recommend AXA do anything more  to
put things right. 
The investigator said Mr K hadnt  provided  reliable or consistent accounts during AXAs  
and our investigation. He felt that there was one of two outcomes: either Mr K failed to 
disclose the July 217 incident when Mrs H bought  AXAs policy  in August 2017
 or the DG10 conviction related to the September 2017 incident. And he thought that either
way - Mr K had invalidated the cover  AXA provided.  So he didnt  recommend  AXA do any
more.
Mr K didnt agree. He said he could have had the car repaired sooner. He wanted  AXA to
compensate him for the incorrect information  it gave him. Mr K said he didnt have to
disclose anything to AXA about the July incident  which he says related to the March 2018
conviction  as he wasnt insured with AXA then.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 February  2019.  I thought  part of Mr Ks complaint 
should be upheld.  I thought AXA had caused  him some inconvenience as it had incorrectly  
told Mr K the salvage of the car meant  it couldnt  be returned to Mrs H  but it could. So I 
thought AXA should pay Mr K £100 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new information  
 and both parties  have  accepted my provisional  decision  - my final decision is along the 
same lines.
While AXA was investigating the September 2017  incident, it was possible that it would
settle the claim by paying Mrs H the total loss sum for the car. But it couldnt  reach  this
decision until it had all of the information it needed to see if it would validate the claim.
AXA sent us a copy of the police report from the September 2017 incident.  This states that a
blood sample was taken  from Mr K. It doesnt  provide  the results. Mr K said the blood
sample results came  back  clear.  AXA gave  Mr K the opportunity to provide evidence  to
support his view.  But he didnt provide anything.
In March 2018 AXA checked with the DVLA after it found out about Mr Ks DG10  conviction.
At this stage, Mr K didnt mention that the conviction related to another  incident. But Mr K
didnt accept that hed breached the terms of AXAs policy.
Ref: DRN78979243AXAs policy  says it will not cover a claim if the driver is found unfit to drive through  use of
drugs. And it will look to recover the costs  of any claim  which  includes any claim from a
third party - from the driver. This isnt an unusual exclusion as Ive seen it most  if not all
other motor  insurance  policies.
From the information available  to AXA, this shows that a blood sample was taken from Mr K
on the date of the incident in September 2017.  It received confirmation from the police  and
the DVLA  that Mr K was convicted of a DG10 motoring conviction in March 2018.
While Mr K says the conviction  relates to a separate  incident, there is nothing  to show AXA 
or us  that this is the case. So I think  based on the information  available to AXA  that it
reached its decision to decline the claim Mr K made  in September 2017 reasonably.
From AXAs notes, Mr K asked AXA to return the car in May 2018. But AXA said its engineer
had categorised the car as B which it said meant the car should be broken and wasnt
suitable for repair. However,  the engineers report said the car had been categorised as S
which meant it was repairable. And this is what AXA told Mrs H when it wrote to her in April
2018.
So AXA provided  Mr K with incorrect information  in May 2018. And it confirmed its position
Incorrectly when it replied  to his complaint in July 2018. I think that AXA caused Mr K some
inconvenience here as Mr K made  a number  of calls to AXA to dispute what  it told him. He
was right.  So I think if AXA had confirmed to Mr K the correct  categorisation of the car in
May 2018, arrangements could have been made  to return  the car then.
However, as Mr K was banned from driving in March 2018  and Mr K wasnt the main driver
under the policy  - I dont think the delay  AXA caused between May 2018 and August 2018
by returning the car has prejudiced Mr K. But I think AXA should pay Mr K compensation for
the inconvenience it caused  him in providing incorrect information. I think  a fair 
compensation amount is £100.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ks complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mr K £100 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him when it incorrectly  said the 
car couldnt be returned due to the salvage  categorisation.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we
tell it Mr K accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of
8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897924