K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the poor service hes received from National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
(NatWest).
background
In September  2018 Mr H complained to NatWest about several instances of poor service  in 
branch and with their online  banking and telephone service.  He said that:
Hed visited a NatWest branch and had to wait around 10 minutes to pay some 
money into his account. 
Around a week later he went into the branch again to enquire  about taking out a 
credit card.  But after being asked to wait for 15  20 minutes he was told the relevant 
advisor wasnt available and hed need  to come back another time.  Two members of 
staff were laughing  at him as he left the branch.
In August 2018 he needed to make  an urgent  payment  using online banking.  He 
hadnt been advised when  he set up the account that hed need a card reader to do 
this. And when he called NatWests online  banking team it didnt tell him about 
alternative payment  methods he could use that didnt need a card reader.
NatWest apologised  for the poor service Mr H had received in branch. And said it was sorry 
that when hed spoken to someone on the telephone  he wasnt  told about  other  ways  he 
couldve made his payment.  It thanked  him for his feedback and said it was always  looking  
to improve its service.  It also said it would consider reimbursing any additional  costs  hed 
incurred as a result of the poor service  if he was able to provide details and evidence  of 
them. And it explained other ways Mr H could access its banking  services without having to 
go into branch.
Mr H feels NatWest failed to address his concerns.  And says he hasnt been reimbursed for 
his parking costs  as it initially  offered.  So he brought his complaint to our service.  He wants  
NatWest to compensate  him for the amount of time hes spent  trying  to resolve these issues.  
And for the inconvenience hes experienced.
Our investigator considered what had happened  but felt NatWests apology  was fair, and 
didnt think this complaint  warranted a payment of compensation. The investigator  noted that 
Mr H hadnt provided  evidence of any expenses for NatWests consideration. And also said 
they could see that hed opened his account online with no staff involvement.  And that the 
information displayed  had said that a card reader would be needed to make online 
payments.   
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators  findings. So the case  has been passed  to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN70190452NatWest accepted what Mr H told it happened in branch  and on the telephone, and 
apologised for the poor service he received. It also offered to reimburse any additional  costs  
he incurred as a result of its poor service if he was able to provide details and evidence of 
them. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed,  but overall I think NatWest responded to his complaint 
fairly. Ill explain why.
service in branch  
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly  about what happened in branch. And I agree it doesnt 
sound like NatWests staff acted in as professional a manner as Id expect. 
I also recognise the inconvenience that waiting in branch can cause. Though given the 
nature of a branch I think  its reasonable for a customer  to expect they may need to wait for 
assistance. And I dont  think  the times  Mr H has suggested he waited for were particularly 
unreasonable. I know Mr H was disappointed that no-one was able to help him with his 
query about a credit  card at that particular time. And its unfortunate this wasnt made  
apparent to him sooner.  But there is no suggestion he had a pre-arranged  appointment. And 
I accept branch staff cant always be available on demand to discuss  such  matters.
Mr H is upset NatWest  hasnt  made any payments to him in light of its offer to reimburse  
costs he incurred. He told it he had spent £5 on parking whilst attending the branch. But I 
havent seen any evidence he had provided  it with proof of these costs, or otherwise 
explained to it why this wasnt possible.  So I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably here.
Mr H has now confirmed to our service that he didnt  retain  his parking ticket and so has no 
evidence of the £5 he spent on parking. So I asked NatWest whether, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it would be willing to reimburse this £5 in the absence  of a receipt. Its confirmed it 
would be willing to do this. So Ill leave  it for Mr H to contact NatWest directly if he wishes to 
accept this £5 offer.
online payment  and telephone call to online banking services
I appreciate it wouldve  been frustrating for Mr H to find that he wasnt  able to make  a 
payment using online banking without a card reader. Hes complained that NatWest  hadnt 
made him aware this would be necessary. But NatWest has been able to provide evidence  
that persuades  me it had. 
Its shown us that Mr H opened  his account online,  without any staff involvement. Its also 
given us a copy  of the information a customer sees when they complete an online 
application. This contains a section headed  Online  Banking which says When  your account 
is open you can finish setting up online  banking. When youre all set up and you log in, using 
the left hand menu youll be able to: (1) Order  a card reader to set up payments.  
Based on this evidence I think NatWest  took reasonable steps to make it clear  to Mr H that a 
card reader would be needed to make  online payments when he set up the account.  So I 
dont feel I can fairly  hold it responsible for the fact he was unaware of this requirement.
Ref: DRN70190453Mr H has explained that when he wasnt able to make his payment online he telephoned 
NatWest. Hes frustrated that the advisor  he spoke to didnt tell him about other ways he 
couldve made his payment  without a card reader.  NatWest hasnt been able to locate a 
recording of this call so I cant be sure exactly what was said, but I accept what Mr H has 
told us.
I agree  it would have  been helpful  if NatWest  had given  him this information. But Im pleased 
to see it appears that Mr H was still able to make his payment the same day. (Hes 
confirmed he ordered a new card reader on the day this telephone call took place and 
NatWest has shown  us this order was placed  on 30 August 2018, the same day the payment 
left Mr Hs account). 
Mr H has also confirmed he didnt suffer any financial loss as a result  of the difficulties he 
encountered making this payment. 
the matter of compensation
Mr H raised this complaint  following the culmination of the events Ive outlined  above. And 
Ive taken this into account when considering his request  for NatWest to pay him £75 
compensation for what happened. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But whilst I recognise that NatWests 
actions caused  him some  upset and inconvenience here,  I dont consider that this was more 
than minor upset and inconvenience. So overall  I feel that in these individual  circumstances 
NatWests apology is a fair response  to the impact its poor service had. And I wont  be 
asking it to pay Mr H further compensation. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7019045