K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold it responsible.
Mr F had British  Gas cover for his central  heating system, plumbing and drains. He agreed  
to pay an annual premium  by monthly instalments.  The cover required him to pay an excess  
or call-out  fee of £60.00  for each  completed repair.
Mr F called for help with a radiator. He complained that British Gas didnt fix it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought that 
British Gas gave  Mr F poor service.  This had a huge impact on him  in the context of his 
mental health and disabilities of which British  Gas was aware. She recommended that British 
Gas should pay Mr F £400.00  compensation.
British Gas disagrees with the investigators  opinion.  It says, in summary,  that it changed the 
thermostatic radiator valve  three times, although on two of those occasions it was not 
necessary.
Mr F says, in summary,  that more British Gas engineers visited in November and December 
2018. After a visit on 5 December,  the boiler and plumbing started making a whining sound. 
And there were loud noises from the radiator in the night. Another engineer behaved as 
though he thought there was something wrong with Mr F, he says.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F was already on the British Gas Priority Services  Register.  He wasnt comfortable using 
the telephone and he preferred email.
Mr F raised  his radiator problem with British Gas by email on 27 September 2017. From 
what he says, I accept  that British Gas acknowledged his email.  
But he had to chase  it up on 6 October  2017.  During a webchat, Mr F told British Gas he had 
a sleep disorder,  Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Anxiety and Depression. I dont think  British  
Gas gave him enough help to book an appointment online.
On 9 October 2017, British Gas booked an appointment and offered £20.00 as a goodwill 
gesture for its delay  in doing so.
On 23 October 2017 Mr F emailed British Gas. He said hed had to turn his boiler off. So  
keeping in mind  that he was unwell  I find it poor that British Gas didnt respond to his 
email.
Ref: DRN79030232On 1 November  2017 a British Gas engineer replaced the bedroom TRV. 
On 21 December 2017 Mr F emailed British  Gas again. He said the new TRV didnt allow the 
radiator to reach its maximum. 
I dont think British Gas responded until 3 January 2018 when an engineer  visited but didnt 
find Mr F at home.
On 18 January 2018 an engineer changed the TRV.
But on 22 January 2018 Mr F emailed  to complain that the problem with his radiator  wasnt 
fixed and he was getting cold at night. So - keeping in mind  that he was unwell  I find it poor 
that British Gas did not respond to his email.
Mr F sent further emails  on 10 March  2018 and 2 May 2018.  He rang on 9 May 2018.
It wasnt until 1 June  2018 that British  Gas emailed Mr F to check  if he was still having an 
issue with radiator valve. I find that length of delay very poor.
British Gas changed the TRV again  in July. 
I dont think that its engineers provided a poor service. But British Gas knew  that Mr F had 
issues with his health and with communication.  Im not satisfied that it was flexible to adjust 
to his needs.
In particular it didnt  communicate well enough.  It didnt pick up on his suggestions that it 
should arrange visits when his support worker was going to be with Mr F. And it didnt pick 
up on his dislike of conical  TRVs.
Mr F felt the radiator hadnt  been working  properly. And I accept that  instead of helping him 
promptly - British Gas had made him feel anxious  and ignored. That went on from autumn 
2017, through the cold winter and right through to summer 2018. And British  Gas has 
prolonged the worry for Mr F by rejecting  the investigators opinion.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to order  British  Gas to pay Mr F £400.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Unfortunately, I dont think it would be fair for me to deal with Mr Fs new complaints about 
visits and repairs in November and December 2018. Thats  because  our rules say that 
British Gas should have a period of time to respond  to Mr Fs new complaints before he can 
bring them to us. 
I think Mr Fs British  Gas policy  is due for renewal  in early April 2019. He has said that - 
when he has got alternative cover  through his housing association  - he wants  to cancel the 
British Gas policy and he shouldnt have to pay the rest of the yearly fee. I think that  when  
he is ready  he should  tell British Gas he wants to cancel. I expect British Gas not to charge  
him for the time between  then and early April 2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr F £400.00 for distress and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN79030233Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903023