K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection  plan (TMPP).
background
In 2003 Ms G took out TMPP cover  to protect  her mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Ms G disagrees.  Mainly she 
complains that she wasnt  given enough  information  about the policy  to be able to make  a 
proper decision about whether to take it out. Ms G also told us that she had other means to 
rely on and didnt need PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax  couldnt  provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold  the complaint. Given how long ago 
this sale happened  I wouldnt reasonably  expect  Halifax or Ms G to have  kept this 
paperwork.  
And I cant know exactly what  was discussed  about  PPI, if anything, when Ms G arranged  
her mortgage. Ive taken  carefully into account  what Ms G remembers   and its not 
surprising that she says she doesnt  recall  all the exact details. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect her to recall exactly what was discussed  at the time, so many  years later.  This means  
that what Ms G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
I must look at all the available information  and take into account the wider circumstances. 
I have to be impartial and decide what I think is most likely to have happened.  
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax normally used around the time 
Ms G took out her cover.  And we already  know from looking at other cases  what the usual 
process was when Halifax sold TMPP. 
Ive no clear reason  to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales  process 
here. So I think its likely that PPI was explained and recommended for Ms G. And I think  its 
likely that Ms G would  have known at the time that PPI was optional  and that she agreed to 
take it out. So I cant uphold her complaint  on this basis.
Ref: DRN79816042The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Ms Gs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  the monthly repayments were  protected  even if 
Ms G couldnt work. So, I can see why she mightve  felt PPI was useful when she took out 
her mortgage. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Ms G was persuaded of the usefulness of protecting  
her home by taking  out the PPI offered and she decided to buy the policy. 
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Ms G. If a financial  business  makes a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information  in a clear  way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable  for Ms G based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when 
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. And PPI couldve protected Ms G if she was disabled or too 
sick to work as well as providing  cover if Ms G lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim  so this gave Ms G significantly 
better cover than she wouldve had if she was only able to rely on getting statutory sick pay. 
And Ms G couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So PPI gave her long term 
protection for her mortgage. 
Ms G said she wouldve had some  savings to rely on if shed needed to make a claim. But 
having PPI meant Ms G could keep any savings intact to provide financial  security for the 
future. And I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on if she wasnt working.
Having PPI meant Ms G could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage  monthly  
repayments even  if she couldnt work. I think this couldve been an important consideration 
at the time for Ms G  even if shes now forgotten this. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Ms Gs case. So, I dont think having  more information about  things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPIs cost and benefits were made clear to Ms G when  she bought the 
policy. But she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to - so she seems to have 
wanted the insurance at the time. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Ms G still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if shed been better informed, as the 
policy gave her useful  protection in her particular  situation. 
I dont think better information  wouldve stopped Ms G buying PPI. So I dont find she has 
lost out as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong during the sales  process.
I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Ms G, but I hope  that setting things out as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ref: DRN79816043my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7981604