K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his unemployment  cover  was mis-sold by HSBC Bank Plc. 
background
In 2009, Mr C met with a HSBC adviser  to discuss protecting his income. The adviser 
recommended Mr C take out two policies  an accident and sickness  policy, and an 
unemployment policy. Both policies would protect  50% of his salary for up to 12 months. 
Mr C accepted this recommendation. 
Mr C now complains that the unemployment  cover  wasnt suitable for him. He says his visa 
requirements were such that he wouldnt be able to make a successful claim under the 
policy if he did lose his job. HSBC didnt  accept his complaint, so he brought the matter to 
us.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought the advisers  
recommendations had been suitable  for Mr C. She said she hadnt seen any evidence that 
Mr Cs visa prevented him from claiming  under the unemployment cover, but even if this 
were the case,  there was nothing to suggest the adviser was made  aware of this. 
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings,  Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans decision. The 
matter has therefore  been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Mr C hasnt specifically complained 
about the accident and sickness  cover - as this was sold at the same time as his 
unemployment cover, Ive considered  the suitability of the sale of this policy as well. 
Ive looked carefully  at the fact-find document completed by the adviser at the meeting, and 
the Financial Planning  Review letter  that was sent to Mr C following the meeting which 
confirmed the details of their discussions.
Mr C was the main earner in his family.  He wanted  to protect his income because he had a 
young daughter,  and his employer only paid sick pay for four weeks. It was also noted that a 
number of people  in his industry had been  made redundant and he wanted  to maintain his 
lifestyle and cover his financial commitments  if this happened to him. 
The adviser recommended Mr C take out accident, sickness  and unemployment  cover  that 
would protect 50% of his salary for up to 12 months.  This was the maximum level of cover 
available through HSBC.  I note this wouldnt quite cover Mr Cs outgoings. It appears the 
adviser was aware  of this, as he offered Mr C the option of meeting  with the independent  
advisory arm of HSBC to obtain a greater level of cover. Mr C turned down this offer and 
said he was comfortable  protecting only 50% of his income. Given that it was recorded  that 
cost was also an issue, I think it was better  for Mr C to have had some cover than none  at 
all.
 
I see the adviser did consider long term sickness protection for Mr C through an income 
protection policy, but given the cost of this, Mr C was happy  to go ahead with the short-term 
cover that the adviser was recommending. 
Ref: DRN73390672Overall, I think the accident, sickness and unemployment cover was suitable for Mr Cs 
needs, and the amount of cover provided was appropriate. 
Mr C says his visa requirements mean that he wouldnt be able to make a claim under the 
unemployment cover, but he hasnt provided  me with a copy of his visa so I cant  comment 
on this. The information  given to the adviser  by Mr C was that he was a UK resident and UK 
domiciled. At that time hed been living in the UK for five years, and had no plans to return to 
his country of nationality.
If Mr C remains  of the opinion that any unemployment claim couldnt be paid because  of his 
visa, then Id suggest  he contacts the insurer about this in the first instance. If he can show 
that he couldnt have been  able to make a successful  claim  under  the policy,  wed usually 
expect the insurer  to return his premiums.   
Since bringing his complaint here, Mr C says the adviser offered him life cover  which  he was 
happy to have, but the adviser  said he had to buy this together  with the unemployment 
cover. I think there may be some confusion  here.  I see that the adviser did actually 
recommend that Mr C take out life insurance  and critical illness cover,  but Mr C turned down 
this recommendation  because  it wasnt a priority  for him. I think  Mr C may be confusing the 
accident and sickness policy  for life cover.
In any event, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr C was led to believe he had to take 
out the unemployment cover alongside  the accident  and sickness cover.  Its apparent that 
Mr C understood he could turn down the advisers recommendations, as he turned down the 
recommended life insurance and critical illness cover. And as Ive said above, I think the 
unemployment cover  was suitable for Mr Cs needs at the time. I therefore dont uphold  this 
aspect of Mr Cs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7339067