K822xcomplaint
G, a limited company,  complains about problems with export collection services provided by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. G is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr K. Mr K asks for 
compensation for costs incurred by G.
background 
G intended to export  goods to an overseas customer. Mr K asked  HSBC  about providing 
export collections (where HSBC handles documents and payment collection  on Gs behalf) 
and its timescales. HSBC told him it would take 3 to 4 days  to process its application. G sent 
documents to HSBC  on 6 August 2018  and told HSBC the goods would arrive at their 
overseas destination  on 14 August 2018. 
Mr K became concerned about  progress and tried to contact the team  within HSBC. He was 
told by the call handler that someone would get in touch with him. He wasnt  contacted. As 
he didnt have confirmation HSBC would provide the documents in time Mr K made other 
arrangements. However, by the time these were in place G had incurred demurrage 
(charges due to delays in the goods  being  unloaded  at their destination).
HSBC says it was at fault for the delays. It paid half of the demurrage  incurred by G. Mr K 
says HSBC should pay all of the demurrage, which it had told him it would. He says HSBC 
should also compensate G for his inconvenience and stress and losses  of about £42,000 
due to the delay  he says G would have used the payment for repeat trade. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said HSBC had 
agreed that documentation  wasnt in place due to delays in its internal process.  There was 
no evidence HSBC had told G it might not be able to process  the documents  in time. By the 
time G was aware that alternative arrangements  were needed it had already incurred 
demurrage costs. Our investigator said HSBC should compensate G for all the demurrage.
HSBC agreed.  G didnt  agree. Mr K asked for more compensation for lost business 
opportunities and upset.  He said HSBC had paid compensation in similar circumstances in 
2017. And he says HSBC  has now closed Gs account because  of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC accepts it caused delays. Its agreed  to compensate G for all the demurrage it 
incurred as a result. I think  this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about  further  compensation. Ive explained  below why I 
think it isnt fair and reasonable to require  HSBC to pay further compensation. 
Mr K says G has losses due to the delay in receiving payment for the goods   as it didnt 
have the money  available it missed  out on business  opportunities. But Id need  evidence to 
support this, such as evidence of a transaction or investment which G missed only because 
Ref: DRN74778062of the delay in receiving  the payment. And Id need  evidence of the amount of the loss. As I 
dont have this evidence, I dont think its reasonable to require HSBC  to pay compensation 
for the losses Mr K says G suffered.
This complaint is from G. As a limited  company G doesnt feel upset or stress. I cant  usually 
require HSBC to pay compensation to third parties   such  as Mr K. Mr K says HSBC paid 
compensation in similar  circumstances previously. But this doesnt mean I can require  it to 
do so here.  
Mr K says HSBC closed Gs account  because of this complaint. As this wasnt  part of the 
complaint when it was brought to us our rules  dont allow me to consider it here. G should 
raise any concerns about the account closure with HSBC.
my final decision
My decision  is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should  pay the demurrage costs incurred by G as a 
result of its errors  in processing Gs request for export collections in 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7477806