K821x#15complaint
Mrs O is unhappy at the quality of repairs  when  she made a claim on her CIS General 
Insurance Limited motor policy. 
She is represented in this complaint by Mr O. 
background
Mrs O has a motor  insurance policy with CIS. She drives a vehicle  her daughter  leases from 
Renault. On 17 May 2018 Mrs O was involved in a collision with a vehicle, on hire from a 
company Ill call H, damaging her vehicles  offside wing. Although she made CIS aware of 
the accident, Mrs Os daughter initially  thought  the matter should  be dealt with by Renault 
which pursued a claim against  the other  drivers insurer.  But when the third party insurer  
disputed liability about two weeks later CIS took over the claim.  
When the vehicle  was returned to Mrs O in August (three  months  after the accident) she was 
disappointed with the quality of the repairs. The accident hadnt damaged the front of the 
vehicle, yet the parking sensor in the front bumper was pushed in. She noticed some  noises 
when driving the vehicle  which werent  there before.  And the paintwork of the bonnet was 
spotted with white  marks and smears.
Mrs O complained to CIS her vehicle had been returned in a worse state than before the 
accident. She was also unhappy at how long it had taken, and the lack of updates  from CIS, 
so she and Mr O had to continually chase. And there was a delay in her getting a courtesy 
car. CIS said the delays were largely  outside its control. But it arranged for an independent 
inspection of the vehicle to assess the quality of the repairs.  The inspection  report  said the 
white marks were  already present when the vehicle was delivered to CISs authorised  
repairer. CIS refused to respray the vehicle, as the damage to the paintwork wasnt  related 
to the accident.  As Mrs O hadnt raised the noise issue prior to the inspection, CIS said she 
needed to show  it was accident-related. But it subsequently offered to repair the parking 
sensor if Mrs O wished,  and paid a total of £75 for the customer  service issues. 
Mrs O thinks CIS should cover the cost (approximately £4,000)  to respray the car. So she 
complained to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2019 in which  I set out a timeline,  a 
revised version of which is included  below (all dates in 2018).  Nobody has accepted  
responsibility for the paintwork damage, so I wanted  to determine, as far as possible, when 
Mrs Os vehicle came under the control  of CIS or its agents. Its complicated  by the number 
of additional parties  involved. But this decision is only about the actions of CIS and its 
agents, not the other parties involved in the recovery and repair  of the vehicle. 
17 May Accident. Mrs O reported it to the Renault  assistance number  on the 
windscreen. Renault instructed recovery firm S to move the vehicle to Ss 
site. Later, accident reported to CIS which offered to get car moved to its 
authorised repairer  and provide courtesy car. Mrs Os daughter  wanted  
vehicle to remain as Renault were pursuing third party vehicles insurer.
18 May Vehicle collected  from S and taken to repairer  M (instructed by hire firm H)
22 May Mrs O called CIS after speaking to H asking it to authorise  the repairs. CIS 
says repairers must provide a quote if CIS authorised repairers  not used. 
Advice confirmed in a text to Mrs Os number. M estimated  repair costs 
Ref: DRN73752282(£8,081) meant the vehicle considered a total loss.
23 May H/third party  insurer disputes  liability so claim handed back to CIS. M wont 
release vehicle until the £50 quote  fee is paid. 
24 May CIS pay storage  and recovery costs, and instruct its authorised repairers  A 
to assess vehicle. A accepts vehicle  is a total loss (based on Ms quote).
25 May A cant collect vehicle from M, as its not accessible.
28 May Bank Holiday 
29 May A attempted  to collect vehicle from M but got there  too late (after 4pm)
30 May
1 JuneVehicle collected  by A 
A assessed damage and produced a report
4 June As cost of repair much lower than original quote (£5,700), so not total loss
13 June Mrs O given courtesy vehicle
17 August Release of vehicle delayed due to suspected illegal  tyre
21 August Mrs O collected vehicle  and noticed poor quality repairs and white marks
18 Sept          Independent  post-repair inspection of vehicle
So I concluded that from the time of the accident  on 17 May until 30 May when it was 
collected by A, Mrs Os vehicle wasnt in the hands of CIS or its agents. 
In relation to the damaged  paintwork I said the following in summary:
Having seen photographs  of Mrs Os car just afterwards,  Im as satisfied as I can be the 
marks werent present  at the time of the accident,  or caused by the accident. But before it 
was collected  by A the vehicle was stored  at two separate sites, neither  of which  was 
selected or controlled by CIS. And one site was a salvage yard, as the vehicle was originally 
considered a total loss. 
Mrs O thinks the vehicles  condition  should  have been recorded at the point of transfer from 
M to A. A took photographs of the vehicle at its site, but these focused on the actual accident  
damage it was asked to repair,  which I think is reasonable. Various causes of the white  
marks have been  suggested, such as tree sap or nearby paint spraying and I cant tell how 
or when  the damage happened. As initial report dated 1 June 2018  included two photos  
showing the front aspect  of vehicle. And in these the paintwork does appear to be spotted, 
suggesting the damage was present on arrival  at its site. A didnt inspect this closely  as it 
hadnt been asked to repair the bonnet and assumed it was just dirty.  But the evidence Ive 
seen makes me think its more likely than not the paintwork was already damaged before 
CIS took over the claim. 
The notes show that A valeted the vehicle and spent four hours trying to clean the marks 
from the paintwork  without much success. It did this as a gesture of goodwill, not because it 
admitted the damage was caused  at its premises, which I thought was fair in the 
circumstances. But I thought A should  probably  have  mentioned  the paintwork when Mrs O 
collected the vehicle, although  it wouldnt have been aware of its pre-accident condition.
The independent inspection of Mrs Os car took place on 18 September at her house. This 
report says the marks were likely caused  by a corrosive substance  which  burnt the paint. 
And it considered the photographs suggest  the damage was present when the vehicle 
arrived at A. I gave significant weight to a report produced by a professional  expert, and Id 
seen no evidence to challenge this finding.  If the vehicle had been under the control of CIS 
or its authorised repairers throughout, then it would  be fair for it to put right any damage to 
the paintwork.  But, as it seemed more  likely  the damage occurred before the vehicle was 
under As control I didnt  think  it would be fair to hold CIS responsible for putting this right.  
Ref: DRN73752283I did say CIS should repair the parking sensor  (which it had already offered to do). And if the 
post-repair noise issues raised by Mrs O were found to be related to the accident, or to poor 
quality workmanship by its authorised repairers  A, then CIS should  address those. But I 
thought the £75 CIS had paid for the customer service issues including  the lack of a courtesy  
car was in line with what Id recommend.
Both parties  responded to the provisional  decision. 
CIS agreed  with my conclusions apart from the noise issue,  which  it said it had responded to 
separately as a new complaint, offering a further  £25 compensation. So shouldnt  be 
included in this decision. 
Mrs O responded in detail. She explained  the car was recovered by Renaults agent  after the 
accident as she couldnt get through to CIS when she originally  phoned. She said she wasnt  
aware other  parties were involved in the claim,  and thought CIS as her insurance company  
should be solely responsible for the repairs. She denied speaking  to H or being  asked to 
obtain authorisation from CIS for repairs to be carried out. She said shed been  told by the 
As receptionist the paintwork  damage  was due to accidental over-spray so CIS should  pay 
to put it right.  However  the damage  was caused, its unfair for her to be left with a car in a 
worse state than before the accident. She suspected CIS were reluctant to pay out as a total 
loss, which  shed have  preferred as she has a GAP insurance policy to cover the shortfall on 
the lease agreement. And £75 isnt sufficient to reflect the poor customer  service provided  by 
CIS throughout.  
I carefully considered  the responses  from both parties, and in light of what Mrs O said I 
asked CIS for more information, including some  call recordings. I also told CIS that although 
it had issued a separate  final response  about  the engine noise I thought  it made more sense 
to consider that issue within  this decision also. So I gave  Mrs O the opportunity to comment  
on that as well. Mrs O reiterated her position on the quality of the repairs  and said she hadnt 
received the £25 compensation.
Having reviewed everything again,  Im now in a position to issue  my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I dont dispute Mrs Os recollection, 
theres no record of an earlier call to CIS on the day of the accident. But Ive listened to the 
call from the evening of 17 May 2018  when Mrs O and her daughter advised CIS of the 
accident. CISs call handler offered to instruct  A, its local authorised repairer  to collect  the 
vehicle, and get it on-site for inspection. Mrs O was told shed have to pay the policy  excess  
to A, who could arrange a small courtesy  car. But as it was being treated as a non-fault  claim 
Mrs O could use a particular accident  services company which would loan her a more 
comparable car, and she wouldnt have to pay the excess. The offer to transfer  the car to 
CISs authorised repairer was made several  times in the call. But Mrs Os daughter said 
Renault was handling the claim, they just thought CIS should  be aware of the accident. The 
call handler said she would contact  the third party insurer  about  liability,  but wouldnt do 
anything else at that point. 
Ive also listened  to the call on 22 May when Mrs O rang CIS after speaking to the hire 
company H. I appreciate  it was over a year ago so she might  not recall, but its clear at the 
Ref: DRN73752284time Mrs O was aware the car was with Hs repairers. This call handler told her theyd need 
a quote before authorising  repairs to be carried out by a third party. The process was 
explained, and Mrs O was told shed get a text repeating the details, so was asked to 
confirm her mobile number. The claim notes  show the wording of the text and the number to 
which it was sent.  Mrs O says she didnt receive  it, but even so I think  she knew  at this point 
CIS didnt  have her car, and werent repairing it. Mrs O says she wasnt  aware of any 
triangular communications between CIS, H and her daughter and thinks CIS should  have  
referred everything to her as the policy  holder.  But in the initial call she gave the CIS agent 
her authorisation to speak to her daughter,  so I think it was entitled to do so.
CIS only took over the claim once the third party repair quote  deemed the vehicle a total 
loss, and the third party  insurer  disputed liability. There was a delay in the vehicle actually  
getting on site at CISs authorised repairers A. I appreciate  this was frustrating but these 
were outside  CISs control. And it had offered to arrange to collect  the vehicle the day of the 
accident. 
Once it was handling the claim  CIS should, subject to the policy excess,  repair the accident 
damage, but not wear  and tear or pre-existing faults.  And it should  put right any defects in 
the repairs carried out by its authorised repairer (A). But because the vehicle was only under  
As control  from 30 May,  it wouldnt be fair to hold CIS responsible  for anything which  
happened before  then.  
post repair engine  noise
I explained above why I thought it made more sense to include the post repair  noise issues 
within this decision,  even though CIS responded to this as a separate complaint. But Ive not 
seen evidence to show the noise relates  to accident damage or poor repairs.  A refused to 
deliver Mrs Os car as it considered one of the tyres to be illegal.  So Mrs O collected it and 
drove it home. And when she noticed the paint marks  she drove it back to A, without 
mentioning any noises. Neither  were these noises raised during the independent inspection 
visit on 18 September 2018,  or referred  to in the inspection  report.  According  to CISs claim 
notes Mrs O first mentioned steering noises, clunking under the pedals and noisy air 
conditioning on 25 September 2018,  more than a month after the car had been  collected 
from A.
CIS asked  Mrs O for evidence,  such as an engineers report, showing a connection to the 
accident or of poorly completed repairs  by its agents, to enable  it to consider the matter 
further. Mrs O provided a tyre check invoice dated 25 October 2018, which refers to 
noisy/jerky front struts including a diagram showing both front wheels were affected.  Mrs O 
believes this shows the struts were  poorly repaired by A. But only the drivers side wheel of 
Mrs Os car was damaged  in the accident, so A didnt  need to repair the passenger side.  
And front  struts arent listed  in As report as repairs it carried out or parts  it replaced. 
Mrs O was aware the service light was on when the car was returned,  and this together  with 
the defective tyre suggests the car wasnt as well maintained as it could have been. And as it 
wasnt apparent when the car was collected  and returned I think  the noise is likely to relate 
to wear and tear rather than to the accident or the repairs. CIS has already agreed to refit 
the parking sensor which I think is fair. So the outstanding issues for me to consider  are the 
damaged paintwork and the customer service.
the white marks and paint damage
Ref: DRN73752285Ive seen nothing  which changes the conclusion I reached in the provisional decision.  Mrs O 
said she was told by one of As employees the damage was caused  by accidental 
overspray. CIS says this has subsequently  been  denied. But even  if it was said, I dont think  
describing what the damage  looks like is an admission of fault. A confirmed it does carry out 
car spraying at its site. However  it takes  place indoors  in a specific  booth, not in an open 
environment. Cars  are taken into the booth,  masked up and sprayed in an enclosed  space 
away from other vehicles, which is what Id expect. While I cant  know  for sure,  I think  its 
unlikely a business would risk damaging nearby vehicles in this way. So I think its more 
likely than not the paintwork was damaged before it reached As premises,  and this is 
supported by independent inspection report. So I wont be asking CIS to respray Mrs Os 
car. 
delays and poor customer service
As mentioned above, Mrs O could have let CIS handle the claim on the day of the accident. 
Had she done so, shed probably have  been given a courtesy car straight away.  She also 
chose not to use the accident services company which  would have given her a more like for 
like vehicle  without her paying  the excess. I appreciate  Mrs O may not have realised the 
implications of initially preferring the claim to be handled by Renault and H rather  than her 
insurer CIS. But that doesnt mean  it would be fair to hold CIS responsible for anything which 
happened before  it took over the claim on 30 May.  
Once the vehicle was with A, there was some  back and forth as additional work not on the 
original estimate was identified. In mid-June when the extent of the repairs  was agreed,  work 
was delayed as A needed  to order more than 20 parts.  A week later Mrs O had to provide 
the device to unlock the wheel nut. Then in early  July A needed to hire JIG brackets  which 
werent available until 8 August. Finally the return of the vehicle was delayed as A wouldnt 
let its staff drive it due to a suspected  illegal tyre. Mrs O disputes this as As initial  inspection  
didnt raise concerns  about the tyres, so she collected the car at her own risk. I cant say for 
sure whether  the tyre was illegal, but I consider A was within its rights  to refuse to drive  a car 
if it had safety concerns.  So while  there have been  delays  I dont feel they were 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs O wasnt  given a courtesy car until 13 June  2018, which was later changed  from an 
automatic to a manual in line with her preference. I can see from the claim notes she did 
request one on 25 May 2018 but was told at that point the car was potentially  a total loss in 
which case a courtesy  car wouldnt be provided. On 4 June 2018, A assessed the repair 
costs at £5,700,  sufficiently below the book value  of the car to make  it economic to repair 
rather than a total loss. So I think Mrs O was without a courtesy car for nine days  longer than 
she should have  been. Id usually  consider  a payment of £10 per day to compensate for this. 
Mr and Mrs O were anxious  about progress so did make a number of phone calls to CIS. I 
understand they were frustrated at how long it was taking. 
But CIS has offered  a total of £100 for poor customer  service  (£75 has been paid, £25 was 
offered but not paid in relation to the engine noise). And it had to pay more than £700 in 
recovery and storage costs to enable the car to be released from the third party  repairers. I 
understand CIS also reclaimed Mrs Os £400  excess from the third party insurer,  and 
refunded this to her, so I dont think it needs to do more.
In conclusion, while I have some sympathy for the situation Mrs O finds  herself  in, I cant 
hold CIS responsible for the damage to the vehicles paintwork. I appreciate shes  unhappy 
with the quality of repairs  and the time it all took.  But for the reasons explained above, I think  
Ref: DRN73752286£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, covering the storage costs and the offer 
to repair  the parking sensor is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the offer made by CIS General Insurance Limited 
to put things right is fair. 
So it should  repair  the parking sensors if Mrs O wishes, and pay a total of £100 
compensation. My understanding  is £75 has already  been paid so it should  pay the 
additional £25 in relation  to the engine noise issue if it has not already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7375228