K821x#15complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr C between February 
2017 and June 2018. Mr C borrowed amounts ranging between  £150 and £1,300  to be 
repaid in three, six or twelve monthly  instalments. Mr C frequently repaid his loans early and 
then borrowed again shortly afterwards. There were no significant breaks in the lending and 
Mr C repaid all his loans.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. MYJAR  disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN74183582Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr C for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr C said his monthly  income was between £1,150  and £1,500 and his 
expenditure was £450. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr C provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr C was saying. The repayments looked affordable. So I cant say it was 
wrong for MYJAR to have  provided  loans one to three. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four there  were signs  that Mr C was struggling to repay  
some of his previous loans:
Mr C was asking for a new loan each payday.
The amount  hed asked for had increased  significantly from £650 for loan one to £1,300. 
So I think there was a significant risk Mr C wouldnt  be able to sustainably repay loan four, or 
any subsequent  loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
By loan seven, the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing showed that he was persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. Mr C was provided  with a new loan within  days or weeks  of 
settling a previous  one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more likely than not that 
Mr C was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan seven was 
taken out 15 months after Mr Cs first. Mr C had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
Ref: DRN74183583I think that Mr C lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing for loan seven 
because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Cs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to seven and I think  MYJAR  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Cs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken by loan seven means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan seven should be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418358