K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to carry out a balance  transfer  to his credit 
card with them. He says that they also failed to tell him if this had affected his credit file and 
failed to close the credit card account  when he asked them  to do so. 
Mr B would like an apology  for the poor service  that he has received.  He would also like 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he has suffered.  
background 
On 5 August  2018, Mr B successfully  applied for a credit card with HSBC. His intention  was 
to use the balance transfer service  to clear another  debt of £1,600 with A. He asked HSBC 
to carry out this transfer.
Mr B thought  HSBC  had carried out the transfer.  A payment of £1,600 was taken out of his 
account on 14 August  2018. But, it was reversed on 23 August 2018.  Mr B says that, when 
he spoke to HSBC  about this, they said that A hadnt allowed the payment. But, when  he 
spoke to A, they said that they dont disallow  payments. 
On 24 August 2018, HSBC offered Mr B £100  to say sorry for the disappointment and 
inconvenience caused to him regarding the balance  transfer not going through. 
Mr B asked HSBC to look into this and raised  a complaint. He also wanted assurances that 
this hadnt impacted on his credit file. 
As Mr B was unable  to transfer his balance with A to HSBC, he says he decided  to cancel 
his credit card. He says that he did this online on 23 September  2018. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 29 October  2018 saying  that they had been unable  to carry out the 
balance transfer  due to an issue with their bank details. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with this outcome. He said HSBC  still hadnt told him if his credit file was 
affected and also that they hadnt  yet closed the credit card account. He was also unhappy  
that he had been unable  to speak to anyone after 6pm and he thought that he had been mis-
sold the credit card.  
Mr B complained to us. 
Our adjudicator found that HSBC  had given Mr B poor service.  He recommended  that HSBC  
pay Mr B a further £100 to add to the £100  already paid. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with this so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that HSBC has given Mr B poor service and I think that they should give him a written 
apology for this plus a further £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him. I will 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN71528072I can see that Mr B has spent a lot of time contacting HSBC in trying to resolve the issues 
that he has had. 
The first point that I will deal with is why the balance transfer didnt go through.  Although this 
became possible,  I dont  think  that HSBCs response to this was good enough. I accept what 
Mr B says:  he was given a number  of different reasons why this didnt go through.  I think that 
this is poor customer service.
I do accept that HSBC incorrectly took £1,600  from Mr Bs account on 14 August  2018, 
which is why they reversed it. It doesnt appear that this ever showed  up on the debt with A 
so I think it was a mistake. But, by giving different reasons for the balance transfer not going 
through, this was, as I have said, poor service. 
Mr B asks if he was mis-sold the credit card. I dont  think that he was. He did have difficulties 
with transferring the balance from A. But I dont  think that there wouldve been the same  
difficulties with all balance  transfers.  As HSBC didnt know  where  he would be transferring a 
balance from, I cant say that they mis-sold  the credit card as they wouldnt have known 
there were going to be problems. 
I completely understand that Mr B wanted to cancel his credit  card after the failed balance  
transfer as I accept that the reason he wanted  the credit card was to transfer the balance 
from A. I have seen a copy his message  sent online asking for his account  to be closed on 
23 September 2018 so I accept that Mr B did make this request. It is clear  that HSBC  didnt 
action this when  they shouldve which, once  again, points to poor customer  service.  
I have considered whether it was poor customer service for HSBC to have delayed  telling 
Mr B that his credit file hadnt been affected  by the payment being taken from his account. 
Although HSBC couldve done  this sooner, I dont think that it was beyond  Mr Bs capabilities 
to have found this out for himself. So, I dont accept that this was poor customer  service as I 
wouldve expected  Mr B to carry out his own enquiries. Because  he didnt, I dont  think that 
he was overly concerned  about his credit file being  affected. So, I dont think that this caused 
him much distress  and inconvenience. 
In summary,  I think that there has been poor customer service.  But I think  that the £100  
already paid and a further £100 is adequate  compensation  for this. At the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, we dont punish  a business as we are more concerned with doing  
what is fair and reasonable. As a result, our levels of compensation arent as high as they 
might be in a court.  But, we are here to recognise  when  a business has got it wrong and aim 
to put a customer back to where they wouldve been  had the mistakes  not been  made  by the 
business. Here, I cant see that Mr B has suffered any financial loss but it is clear  that he has 
spent a lot of time on the complaint. For this reason, I think  that compensation of £200  is fair 
and reasonable.  
I also think that HSBC  needs  to give to Mr B a written apology  for the poor customer  service 
that they have  given.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
Ref: DRN715280731.pay Mr B a further £100  compensation for distress and inconvenience caused  to him; 
and
2.give to Mr B a written apology for the poor customer service that they gave to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7152807