K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited has paid only part of her claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
background 
In June 2018 Mrs B travelled abroad. While there she experienced an infection which 
caused swelling to her face. She saw an oral surgeon and two different dental surgeons. 
She had to delay  her return  to the UK. She made  a claim to Aviva for the cost of treatment, 
which was a four figure amount. She also claimed  for her other expenses including  
accommodation, food and her new flight home.  
Aviva paid part of the claim. It paid £350 for the cost of the treatment  shed received, as this 
was the policy limit for dental treatment to relieve pain. It paid for her flight  home  and some  
additional accommodation costs, but not for food which wasnt  covered under the policy.  
Mrs B didnt think Avivas claim payment was fair and she came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She said Aviva didnt have to pay more than £350 
for the treatment. The adjudicator said Aviva should pay an additional amount for the 
accommodation and £50 for not giving Mrs B its decision on the claim earlier.  
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be reviewed. Shes  explained the difficult personal and 
financial situation shes now in. So the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mrs Bs difficult circumstances.  Its clear  shes  had a very unpleasant 
experience, involving extensive treatment. While I do empathise  with Mrs Bs position I must 
be impartial in deciding  this complaint.  I need  to decide whether Aviva  has fairly settled 
Mrs Bs claim under her travel insurance policy.  
The policy covers emergency  medical  treatment and up to £350 for dental  treatment for 
emergency pain relief outside the UK.
While she was abroad Mrs Bs face became swollen and she felt unwell.  It soon became 
clear she had an infection in her mouth. She was given antibiotics and when that didnt clear 
up the problem  she had surgical  treatment.  
I can see that Aviva arranged for both its internal dental team  and medical team to review 
the reports Mrs B sent it about her treatment.  Having reviewed those reports  both the dental 
and medical team said that shed received dental  treatment  for an infection in her gum, 
described as an abscess. Shed also then received other dental  treatment  including  root 
canal work.  I think Aviva  reached a fair decision that Mrs B had received dental  treatment 
based on the evidence. So it was fair for Aviva to limit the claim payment to £350 as this is 
the policy limit for dental treatment for emergency pain relief. 
Our adjudicator said that Aviva should  pay an additional amount  for the accommodation, and 
£50 for its handling of this part of the claim.  She said Aviva didnt have to pay for Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN70587752food. I agree with our adjudicators conclusions,  and I think she suggested  a fair settlement. 
Mrs B has accepted our adjudicators findings about  the claim payment and the £50 
compensation, and weve  sent her acceptance to Aviva. 
In accepting the adjudicators conclusions Mrs B asked whether she could obtain more 
information from the oral surgeon about her treatment and that a medical condition meant 
she couldnt wait for treatment. Aviva has agreed  to consider any more  medical  information  
Mrs B can provide to it. I think this was a fair response, so I dont require Aviva to do 
anything further.  
I know this wont be the decision  Mrs B was hoping to receive.  I am sorry to disappoint 
Mrs B, who I appreciate is going through a very difficult  time. One of my colleagues has 
given her details  of organisations that might be able to assist  her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think Aviva Insurance Limited has now made a fair payment 
for Mrs Bs claim and its handling of it. Aviva has also fairly  offered to consider any more 
medical information Mrs B can send  to it. So I dont require it to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7058775