K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a finance  agreement.
As Mr W was informed  by our adjudicator, this policy was sold by a third-party  acting on 
behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider this complaint  against  the seller  of the policy  
directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was 
regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation 
activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent and so Mr Ws complaint was therefore set 
up against this insurer. However the insurer has since  transferred its business to AXA, so it 
has taken responsibility  for the sale and this complaint.  To keep  things simple,  Ill mainly 
refer to AXA in this decision.
background
In 2001Mr W took out PPI at the same  time as taking  out a finance agreement to purchase 
some goods.  Both were done in a high street store. 
Mr W told us that at the time in question he was self-employed; he was entitled to be paid 
indefinitely if he was off work sick; and he had several thousand pounds in savings. Mr W 
also said he was in good health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for life, disability and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to make Mr Ws loan repayment for up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of a successful  claim for disability and unemployment. And it cost just over £4 a 
month.
AXAs records show Mr W paid just over £100  in total for PPI.
Mr Ws representative made representations on his behalf. In summary  it said:
the policy excluded  or limited claims for back pain and stress, which  are some of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
if the exclusion for pre-existing medical  conditions had been explained, Mr W wouldnt 
have taken the policy out.
he had sick pay already, so he was covered  anyway.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr W chose PPI and there was nothing to indicate  it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint  comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website. And while I dont intend to set this all out in my decision, Ive 
taken into account  whats relevant here in deciding this complaint.
Ref: DRN74537122key questions  
In summary  and taking  the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key 
questions I need  to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances of this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and AXA,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr W know he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr Ws loan agreement.  I can see here Mr W had to sign 
separately to take out PPI in a section which said: only sign if you want  cover The 
agreement didnt say or imply that PPI was compulsory and by having  to sign to take it out, 
Im not persuaded Mr W was under the impression that he didnt have a choice.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  than not that Mr W knew the policy 
was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr W hasnt indicated whether he thought 
advice was given  or not. And looking at what happened when AXA sold Mr W the PPI, Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with a copy of the policy terms and conditions,  which  it says - and 
which I accept on a balance of probabilities - applied to policies like Mr Ws.
Ref: DRN74537123Looking at the information as a whole provided  to Mr W at the time,  I dont  think AXA gave 
him the information  he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about  
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This was a sale in a non-financial business.  Because of this, I think  its unlikely there was 
anything that could reasonably be described  as a conversation about PPI. But I think its 
likely that Mr W wouldve  understood the essence of the policy  that it protected  his loan 
payments in the event of death,  disability and unemployment. Im also satisfied  that Mr W 
understood the cost of the policy because it was set out in the finance agreement in the PPI 
section he signed.  
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ws attention the important information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I cant see that it adequately  
drew to his attention the significant  limitations  and exclusions around  existing  medical 
conditions or the limit to each claim. 
So I dont  think AXA gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy.  
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr W? To what extent  did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that AXA didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr W would have still 
taken out the policy,  had AXA done  things properly. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. It wasnt AXAs responsibility to do this. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But I accept 
he made this decision  based on incomplete  information. So what  Mr W thought he was 
getting is not exactly what he got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the cost, Im satisfied Mr W was told this as I said above. I also think he 
understood that in terms of the benefit  that it would meet his monthly loan repayment for a 
period of time. So while Mr W didnt know some  things,  the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  wasnt  dissimilar to what hed reasonably have thought  from the information 
he likely  based his decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  hed bought and what 
he actually bought were the following:
the policy excluded  claims  as a result  of medical conditions that Mr W knew  about or 
for which he got advice, treatment  or counselling  from any doctor during the 
12 months before the start date; 
Ref: DRN74537124the policy excluded  claims  for backache  and related conditions  and mental  health 
issues and related conditions unless certain  medical evidence  was provided;
the policy limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
given Mr W pause for thought - as Mr Ws representative says,  backache and stress are 
common conditions. So these may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy wasnt  
as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  
But I think its unlikely Mr W wouldve  expected  to make  a disability claim on the policy 
without first providing some evidence  to support that claim. And the evidence  about Mr Ws 
particular circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally 
wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits  and I havent seen any evidence to suggest he 
would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  for example Mr W didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and he was self-employed. So I think  it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality - I still think he had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out.
Mr Ws told us that he wouldve been  paid indefinitely if he was off work sick. He also said he 
had several thousand pounds in savings. But Ive already said that Mr W chose  to take the 
cover out and he understood its cost and broadly  what  the benefit was (albeit  I accept he 
might not have known  there was a 12 month limit per claim.) So I think he was reasonably  in 
a position to be able to weigh up the cost and benefit proposition to see if it worked for him. 
While Mr W would likely have been  paid for a period of time if he was ill or had an accident, 
Im not persuaded that if it came to it he wouldve been paid indefinitely. Im also mindful that 
Mr W said the savings he had were  earmarked for something specific.  But in any event  the 
policy wouldve paid out regardless  of any sick pay or savings Mr W might have had thus 
allowing him to meet  other ongoing  expenditure with his sick pay and to retain his savings for 
future use as he intended. And I think it is this that Mr W likely  weighed up in reaching his 
decision to take out PPI.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time notwithstanding his existing provision. And in those circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that hed have  taken out the policy in any event.  
Because if this, Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  AXA should 
pay Mr W compensation, as that would  put him in a better position than hed have been in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Ref: DRN74537125Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7453712