K821x#15complaint
Miss Y complains  about the way FirstRand  Bank  Limited T/A: Motonovo  Finance acted when  
she was in arrears on a hire purchase agreement.
background
In 2014 Motonovo supplied Miss Y with a car through a hire purchase agreement.  Miss Y 
was to pay Motonovo about £12,300  through 59 monthly repayments  of about £200,  and a 
final payment of about £500.
In late 2017 Miss Y was in arrears  on her payments. To get up to date Miss Y says she 
offered to make her full contractual payments and to pay extra  each month to reduce, and 
finally clear,  the arrears. Miss Y says Motonovo  didnt  accept this and gave her no option  but 
to return the car. 
Miss Y complained to Motonovo at various  times. Her main complaint points are as follows:
-Motonovo knew of her difficult personal  and financial  circumstances, so it should 
have treated her more  sympathetically. Its actions led to her being without a car 
which made her situation even  more difficult. 
-Motonovo said if she returned  the car she would have nothing further to pay. But she 
was then sent a demand for about £900.  Motonovo said it would write this off, but 
then months later she got a letter from a debt collection company saying she still 
owed it. She says these actions  caused her considerable distress. 
-The service shes been  provided with overall has been poor.  In particular, she 
questions why if Motonovo would write  off about £900 to help her, it couldnt have 
written off her arrears  (about £600) which would have allowed her to keep  the car. 
And shes unhappy people who werent  managers made decisions which  had an 
impact on her life. 
Motonovo looked into things as they arose.  In summary,  it didnt think it had treated Miss Y 
unfairly by giving her the option  to return the car and it accepted it shouldnt have asked her 
to pay around £900 when  it said it wouldnt. It offered her £100  compensation in recognition 
of how long it took to resolve her most recent  complaint as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss Y didnt think Motonovo had treated  her fairly  so she brought  the matter  to our service.  
An investigator looked into it. She thought  Motonovo had treated Miss Y fairly in regard to 
the arrears on her payments and the return of the car. But she thought asking Miss Y to pay 
about £900, when it shouldnt have,  caused Miss Y unnecessary distress. She 
recommended Motonovo pay Miss Y a further  £100 compensation to resolve the complaint. 
Motovo accepted  the investigators  recommendation.  Miss Y didnt. She remained of the 
opinion shed been treated unfairly  because she didnt think Motonovo had done enough to 
establish her circumstances when she was in arrears on her payments. 
An agreement couldnt be reached so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN72722462my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ys agreement with Motonovo was that it supplied the car to her, and in return she 
made monthly payments to it. Miss Y kept up her payments  from October 2014 (when the 
first payment  was due) until January 2016 (by which time Miss Ys circumstances had 
changed). Im satisfied  the agreement was affordable  for Miss Y when  it was entered into, 
and that her later difficulties making payments was the result of a change  in circumstances.
Over the course of 2016 Miss Ys payments  werent being made as they should have been.  
Miss Y was in regular  contact with Motonovo and by mid-2017 the account  was up to date. 
Im satisfied Motonovo treated  Miss Y fairly  during this period as it agreed  repayment plans 
and refunded a number  of charges and some interest.
In September,  October and November 2017  payments were missed. Discussions took place 
between Miss Y and Motonovo.  She explained her circumstances, Motonovo  told Miss Y her 
options and Miss Y provided details of her income  and expenditure. The first income and 
expenditure details,  which  Ive seen  in Motovotos notes, showed Miss Ys income was 
£651.47 a month,  and her outgoings were  £915.68 a month. Miss Y says she doesnt know 
where these details came from. But they include the correct monthly payment towards the 
car and her income, so I think its most likely  these  details were provided  by Miss Y. From 
these details Motonovo didnt think Miss Y could afford her payments as she was spending 
more than she was earning.  Motonovo contacted Miss Y to discuss  her options. I think  
Motonovos actions here were reasonable as it appeared clear  Miss Y couldnt afford to keep 
making payments  on the car, nor clear the arrears.
Following contact from Motonovo, Miss Y sent it further income  and expenditure details. 
These showed her income was £200  a week and her expenditure was £105 a week. Miss Y 
proposed that she should be allowed to keep the car, make her contractual payments (about 
£200 a month)  and pay an extra £5 a week to reduce  the arrears  shed  built up. 
Given the difference in the income  and expenditure information Motonovo had received it 
asked Miss Y for copies of her bank statements so it could assess  her income  and 
expenditure details for itself. I think this was reasonable  given the discrepancy. From the 
bank statements Motonovo didnt think Miss Y could  afford  the payments on the car so it 
declined her repayment proposal. In February  2018  Miss Y accepted  Motonovos decision 
and it was arranged  for the car to be voluntarily terminated. 
I understand that Miss Y thinks Motonovo should have accepted  her repayment proposal. 
Ive looked at the income and expenditure information she provided. But Ive focused on the 
bank statements as these  are the most accurate way to assess someones income and 
expenditure. Ive reviewed  Miss Ys September, October and November 2017 bank 
statements - the ones she sent Motonovo. I dont think these  show payments of about  £200 
a month  were affordable to Miss Y, even  leaving  aside the need to pay the arrears shed 
accumulated. I think it was reasonable for Motonovo to conclude  that Miss Ys repayment 
proposal wasnt an appropriate way forward. 
As Ive said,  following its conclusion about the affordability of the car, Motonovo  gave Miss Y 
her options.  I think this was the right thing to do as some options  would be better for Miss Y 
than others, and it was only fair for Miss Y to decide  for herself  which suited her best. 
Ref: DRN72722463Following this voluntary  termination was agreed. The car was returned to Motonovo  and it 
decided not to ask Miss Y to pay the arrears or for damage to the car considered  to be in 
excess of fair wear and tear. This amounted to about £900. Motonovo  was entitled  to ask 
Miss Y to pay this, but it chose not to, so I think this was a positive action on its part. 
Motonovo wrote to Miss Y on 19 March 2018 to say she owed nothing on the agreement.  
On 3 April 2018  Motonovo  wrote to Miss Y to say she owed  it the arrears and damage  
charges (about £900). Understandably, this was distressing to Miss Y. When  made aware  of 
this Motonovo  told Miss Y quite  quickly that she didnt need to pay anything. Unfortunately,  
Miss Y was contacted again  about  owing money in September 2018; this time by a debt 
collection agency. This was again addressed by Motonovo  quite  quickly  and it hasnt 
happened again. Nevertheless, I can understand why Miss Y was further distressed and 
frustrated.
In its most recent complaint response  to Miss Y, Motonovo paid her £100 compensation in 
recognition of any distress  she may have experienced.  Like the investigator, I dont think this 
amount adequately reflects the distress caused to Miss Y by being asked not once, but 
twice, to pay something shed been  told she didnt owe  especially as she was going 
through a difficult  time, both personally  and financially. I think £200 compensation is a more 
appropriate amount.  
Miss Y questions why Motonovo was willing to write off about £900  after the car had been 
returned, but not the £600 of arrears. I understand her point of view here. But Motonovo 
didnt have to write  anything  off. That it did so is in Miss Ys favour. In any case, even if it 
had agreed to write off the arrears  at the point her income and expenditure was being  
discussed, her bank statements suggested  the payments going forward wouldnt have been 
affordable. So even if I thought Motonovo had written off the arrears,  Im not persuaded 
things would have  ended  any differently. 
Im aware Miss Y thinks more senior members of staff at Motonovo should have handled 
things when she was discussing  whether  she could  afford payments on the car. But its for a 
lender to decide the structure of its organisation. In any case, I dont think the members  of 
staff she dealt with treated her unfairly, so I dont think a mangers involvement would have 
made a material difference.
Overall, I think Motonovo treated Miss Y fairly, except for asking  her to pay something shed 
been told she didnt  owe, twice. But it did take action to put things right quite quickly.  I think 
£200 compensation (in total) fairly reflects the unnecessary distress and inconvenience  Miss 
Y was caused. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require FirstRand Bank  Limited T/A: Motonovo Finance to pay 
Miss Y £200 (in total) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  she was caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020
Ref: DRN72722464James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7272246