K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) have unfairly declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs L found their septic tank and various  manholes  around  the 
property were overflowing. So they made  a claim under their UKI buildings insurance policy 
for accidental damage.
Mr and Mrs L appointed  their own contractors to examine the drains.  They found sewage 
waste falling  back into the septic tank from the soakaway, so concluded the soakaway  was 
defective and required replacement.
UKI also appointed  a contractor to review the damage. They found no significant  defects  to 
the tank itself and said it was functioning  correctly, but said the outlet was blocked. They 
carried out excavation  work and found the system  was backing  up from the gravel filled 
soakaway. They said it wasnt functioning  correctly and wasnt  allowing water  to percolate 
into the surrounding ground  at a sufficient rate, and concluded that the soakaway had failed. 
UKIs contractor found no evidence  of accidental damage. And said the soakaway  had failed  
over time and this would normally be considered  to be a gradually operating  cause and not 
covered by insurance policies. So UKI declined  the claim on this basis.
Mr and Mrs L complained, saying the damage to the function and use of the underground 
services (soakaway) was seriously  impaired which  was unintended and accidental.  So they 
said the claim should be covered. As UKI disagreed they brought  a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. He said the soakaway 
wasnt covered by the policy  and as there was no damage to the septic  tank itself and the 
blockage began at the soakaway, he didnt think there was an insured event. The 
investigator also said UKI had applied its gradual damage exclusion fairly given the age of 
the soakaway itself  as it had already lasted longer than its expected life and been in place 
for around  25 years. And he felt it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs L to have known the 
soakaway was due to fail given its age and condition.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and said the blockage  only became known to them  when the 
soakaway failed.  So the complaint was been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 May 2019 explaining why I didnt  
intend to uphold the complaint. Ive summarised this decision below. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy insures them for accidental damage to their buildings . Their  
representatives said this is the aspect of the policy they should be covered  under. 
And as a result they said UKI should  complete repairs to their drainage  system  as it 
has lost its ordinary  function and therefore is damaged.
Ref: DRN73661832The policy describes  accidental damage as sudden and unintentional  physical 
damage that happens unexpectedly  to the insured buildings. I said this meant for 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim to be successful;  Id need to be satisfied that physical damage 
has occurred to their buildings. And that this damage and was sudden,  unintentional,  
and unexpected. 
Both expert opinions  in this case agreed  there was no physical damage to the septic 
tank, pipework or any other part of the system  with the exception of the soakaway.  
So I said Mr and Mrs Ls drainage system  has failed to function because  the 
soakaway has failed.  
I said even if I accepted this failure as physical damage to their buildings,  Id need to 
be satisfied it met the other conditions  including the damage being sudden  and 
unexpected. UKI said, taking  into account  the expert opinions, the soakaway reached  
the end of its natural life which was to be expected given the nature  of the drainage  
system in place.
UKI said the soakaways construction is no longer allowed under current  building 
regulations  and it was proven  that gravel filled soakaways arent  suitable  for taking 
water from a septic tank over time. And I noted  the government  will require 
soakaways of this nature to be replaced by 2020 with either the installation of a 
drainage field,  a small sewage  treatment plant, or for the drainage  to be directly 
connected to a mains  sewer.
Having considered everything  I said Id seen no objective evidence  to suggest any 
damage was caused due to any particular or single event.  Since its construction  it 
seemed Mr and Mrs Ls soakaway lasted for around 25 years.  Expert opinions differ 
in terms of the lifespan of soakaways,  dependent on the quality of its construction 
and materials used,  but it is inevitable they will eventually fail over time.
So from what Id seen,  and from what I know about soakaways  more generally, it 
seemed most likely that the soakaway failed as a result of it reaching  the end of its 
natural life through deterioration  over time. And it didnt appear to me that the 
damage was sudden.  And as a result I didnt think it met the conditions  to be 
considered as accidental damage. For this reason I was satisfied UKI had fairly 
declined this claim.
UKI also declined  the claim using  the exclusion for gradual damage. But I said for an 
exclusion to apply,  Id first need  to be satisfied that an insured peril has occurred  
which I wasnt. So I didnt consider this any further.
So I wasnt  planning to ask UKI to do anything further. And I explained I would consider any 
further evidence  before issuing my final decision.  UKI didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs 
L disagreed and made a number of points in response.
Ref: DRN73661833Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Ls response below:
 
UKI has failed to clearly articulate its reasons for declining  the claim.
Mr and Mrs L should be entitled  to cover  under  the flood aspect  of the policy  in 
addition to accidental  damage.  And in doing so this would  remove  the requirement 
for the damage  to be sudden, unintentional and unexpected. They would  also like me 
to consider the damage to underground  services aspect  of the insurance.
Mr and Mrs L say there is damage to the underground drains, pipes, cables and 
tanks as theres  an impairment of function  or value.  And that my decision finding the 
damage in this case wasnt sudden goes against  previous  ombudsmen decisions.
Theres no evidence to say when the damaged soakaway was installed. And I 
shouldnt assume it was installed when the house  was built  around 25 years  ago.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
For the avoidance of doubt Ive first considered whether the soakaway itself is covered as 
part of the policys  definition of buildings. Soakaway  is not specified  in the definition of 
Buildings but its inherent function is drainage. A dictionary definition of a soakaway 
describes it as "A pit, typically filled with hard core, into which waste water  is piped so that it 
drains slowly  out into the surrounding soil.
The policy has no specific  definition of the word drain so Ive looked at a dictionary 
definition, which defines it as a means  (such as a pipe)  by which  usually liquid matter is 
drained. That is the very function of the soakaway.
It seems  to me that a soakaways purpose is to drain (waste)  water.  So based on this, I think  
its reasonable to consider the soakaway  as a type of drain in this case.  
As such,  in certain circumstances if damage is caused to a soakaway I would expect an 
insurer to cover a claim. But for this to happen, there must be an insured peril that has 
caused the damage. For instance  this policy covers claims for storm damage, escape of 
water, accidental damage amongst  other perils.
Within my provisional decision I outlined why I was satisfied  this claim would not be 
successful under the accidental damage  aspect  of the policy.  Mr and Mrs L have since said 
Ive departed from our services established  approach by not upholding their complaint. And 
theyve highlighted  several final decisions that were  upheld  and involved  drainage  systems.
Each case we look at is considered on its own merits. However, for completeness I would  
comment that it appears the examples  theyve  given involve situations where pipes or a 
drainage system had physically been damaged or broken  not just suffered a loss of 
function alone. And from what  Ive seen in these  cases  the loss of function wasnt due solely  
to a soakaway reaching the end of its natural  life  as in this case.
Ref: DRN73661834So while Mr and Mrs L may see their complaint as similar, I do not. And as my thoughts on 
this have not changed so I see no reason to repeat my findings  in this area. 
While I have considered  the cover  provided by the whole policy, on Mr and Mrs Ls request  I 
will go on to consider two specific aspects of cover  below.
flood damage
In this case theres not a dispute  that Mr and Mrs L have had water  overflowing out of 
manholes and their septic tank.  However  this water  isnt overflowing  due to a flood. As Ive 
outlined, Im satisfied the drain is overflowing due to the soakaway failing  having  reached 
the end of its natural life. So I wouldnt expect UKI to cover  this claim under this aspect  of the 
policy. Put simply,  its not the case that a flood  has occurred  and has caused a failure,  but 
rather the soakaway has failed and as a result a collection of water has occurred because  of 
the failure. 
services, pipes and cables
Mr and Mrs Ls policy also includes cover for services, pipes and cables. This says:  
We will pay for physical  damage to underground  drains, pipes, cables and tanks which you 
are legally responsible  for and which provide services to or from your  home.
As Ive outlined, both expert opinions provided in this case agreed  there  was no actual 
physical damage  to the septic  tank,  pipework or any other part of the system  with the 
exception of the soakaway. Mr and Mrs L argue that their drainage system ceasing to 
function should be considered physical damage.
From the evidence provided it seems to be the case that the soakaway has silted  up over a 
period of time and no longer allows the waste water to percolate and drain  away. This is an 
expected and inevitable event for a soakaway  over time. When this happens the waste 
backs up leading to overflows. But its something  that happens over time and gradually as 
silt builds  up and negatively impacts the effectiveness  and efficiency of the soakaway.  
Even if the loss of function is considered physical damage the soakaway is still subject to the 
policy conditions and exclusions. The policy doesnt  cover damage that is caused by wear  
and tear or occurs gradually. So I remain  satisfied theres insufficient evidence  to persuade  
me that there has been  damage  such that is covered by the policy and that the loss of 
function has occurred  gradually over time.  And Im satisfied UKI wouldnt need to cover this 
claim under this aspect  of the policy either.
other comments
Mr and Mrs L also made reference to the General Binding Rules that they say allows  a 
homeowner to apply  for a permit so the Environment Agency can assess the risk of using 
this type of drainage system  going  forwards.
Ive taken this into account but even if this is the case, this would only impact the potential 
remedy for replacing or repairing the soakaway. And as Ive said, Im satisfied theres no 
cover in this case so it doesnt impact my decision.
Ref: DRN73661835Ive taken Mr and Mrs Ls comments  about  the age of the soakaway  into account. However 
theyve provided  nothing to support or persuade  me that the soakaway  hasnt reached the 
end of its natural  life.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7366183