K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that she was mis-sold a with profits  endowment policy by The Royal  London 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited.
background
Ms R took out the policy in 1998 for a 20-year term, paying monthly premiums of £60. In 
August 2018 she received a maturity  value of just over £25,500,  having  paid in a total of 
£14,400. 
Unhappy with this level of return she complained to Royal London  that the policy  had been  
mis-sold. She later expanded on this to raise concerns about how Royal  London had 
operated its business  over the term of the policy  buying other business, advertising, etc  
and the effect  on its profit  levels. She also said that shed been  given  the impression shed 
receive back between  £40,000 and £75,000.
Royal London didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained how the policy had worked and the 
bonus structure, highlighting that none of the bonus  elements  were  guaranteed, and that 
recent reductions in bonuses had been due to lower than expected investment returns. 
Royal London considered that Ms Rs circumstances at the time of the sale had supported 
the recommendation of a low-risk savings policy, which had included  useful life cover.  It felt 
there was no evidence to support her having been  told the policy  would return £40,000 - 
£75,000 and added  that a comparison with a suitable low -risk benchmark of fixed  rate 
bonds showed that Ms R had suffered no loss. In respect of her concerns with the operation  
of its business, it explained  how its profits were shared or held back  appropriately in order  to 
sustainably manage  its business.
Ms R wasnt  satisfied with Royal Londons response so referred  the complaint to this service. 
But our investigator also didnt consider the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said,  in brief:
The summary of discussions that took place at the time of the sale showed  that 
regular savings was a priority for Ms R.
The policy was suitable  for a low risk investor. It provided a guaranteed sum assured 
and was managed  to provide bonuses.
The policy had achieved an annualised return of 5.39%, tax free.
There was no documentary evidence  to support Ms Rs assertion  that shed been 
told the policy would return between £40,000  and £75,000.
Royal London was entitled to make  commercial decisions on bonus levels,  and we 
werent able to tell it how to pay bonuses,  or how to invest  or share profits.
The investigator also noted Ms Rs concerns with the way in which the complaint had been 
handled, but she felt Royal London  had acted properly and followed the correct procedures.
Ms R didnt accept the investigators opinion. In brief, she said she was concerned  the 
investigator hadnt considered the sales tactics  used and hadnt  held the adviser to account.  
She said the adviser had been known  to her and her family and sold the policy  despite  her 
being a low-risk investor on a low income. She felt she couldve done  better  with a savings 
account and reiterated her concerns  about the way Royal London had used its profits,  
keeping them for diversification and advertising  rather than sharing them. 
   
Ref: DRN71806872As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ms R has said that she was mis-sold the policy on the basis  that it would provide a return  of 
£40,000  £75,000 and that the way Royal London chose to operate its business over the 
term of the policy  led to this not being achieved. 
Firstly, while  I note Ms Rs recollections, theres nothing in the documentary  evidence to 
support them.  I accept that the adviser  may have  been very encouraging about  how the 
policy might  perform. But without more  evidence to show she was guaranteed  to receive 
back the sort of higher figures she quoted, I dont feel I can reasonably  find Royal  London 
responsible for a loss in this respect. 
Ms R feels  that the failure of the policy to make the level of return that shes  said she was 
told was possible is a result of Royal London  focussing more on promoting  its business that 
ensuring investors in its with profits fund were fairly treated. 
I can understand why she might  feel this way. But without clear  evidence of some  sort of 
mismanagement of its affairs leading directly to a loss for Ms R, I wouldnt be able to 
consider upholding the complaint on that basis. A business is entitled to operate  
commercially as it sees fit, providing  it is in accordance  with the relevant laws and 
regulations. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that Royal London has not done this. 
In respect of the suitability of the policy, at the time of the advice Ms R was aged 40, single 
with no dependents and in employment. Details of her income and expenditure showed an 
excess that would suggest the premiums were affordable,  which is borne out by the fact that 
she retained the policy to maturity. Regular savings was noted as her main priority and with 
her attitude  to risk noted as a 1  nil-low risk which equated to Deposits, Tessas or 
endowments, I dont think the recommendation of the policy  appears  to have been 
unreasonable. 
Ms R has said that alternatives werent  considered and she wouldve done better with a 
different product. But as Royal London  pointed out, her policy  performed far better  than if 
shed used, for instance, fixed  rate savings  bonds.  She might have achieved  a better return  if 
shed taken a greater investment risk  although thats questionable given the term of policy 
encompassed two very significant stock  markets crashes. But she was recorded as having  a 
low attitude to risk and shes confirmed that was the case. So I dont think it wouldve been  
suitable for her to have taken any greater risk with her savings. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  the policy was a suitable  recommendation  and Ive seen nothing 
that persuades  me that Royal London  mismanaged it in any way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN71806873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7180687