K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc wrongly advised them to invest  too much of 
their money in investments which were too risky for them given they were  inexperienced 
investors and this represented the bulk of their capital.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 18 July 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld with redress as outlined in that 
decision.
I therefore instruct Lloyds  to compare the value of Mrs Gs UK Growth  fund on the date she 
encashed it in 2005 with what  her initial £11,000 investment might have been  worth  if put in 
a suitably low risk fund, and by using this services low risk formula.  That is, an equal  
combination of the returns as shown by the UK FTSE Private  Investors Total Return Income 
Index and the returns on Bank of Englands bonds  of 12 to 17 months maturity.
If this shows a loss it should pay this plus 8% simple interest per annum from that date in 
2005 to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Lloyds  Bank  Plc to pay compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70449092provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised them  to invest too much of their 
money in investments which were too risky for them  given they were inexperienced investors  and this 
represented the bulk of their capital.
background
In 1999 at the time of advice  Mr and Mrs G were both 51 and she had retired on health  grounds.  They 
had around  £39,000 annual income between them including Mrs Gs pension.
The limited record of their circumstances noted that they had £35,000 in joint savings, a small 
mortgage and had previously invested in PEPs.  The advisor recorded  that they were  looking for 
higher returns  on their savings and could afford to commit to medium to long term investments. There  
was no explanation for the advisors  record that their attitude to risk was medium.
He recommended they each invest £11,000 in the UK Growth Fund (a medium risk investment),  
utilising their ISA allowances within  this.
A team manager at this service felt  their complaint  should  be upheld. He felt that while  Mr and Mrs G 
were probably prepared  to take a small  risk with this money he felt the recommended  fund, which was 
almost entirely  equity-based,  represented too great a risk given their age, circumstances and likely 
objectives.
He therefore felt Lloyds should pay compensation by comparing the return theyd received with what 
they might have got via a more  suitable  low risk investment. To do this it should use the standard  low 
risk formula  recommended by this service.
Lloyds did not agree, and made  various  arguments. After a further exchange it agreed that the advice 
given to Mrs G may not have  been suitable given  her health etc. and accepted the team  managers 
proposed redress  on her £11,000 investment. But it maintained that the advice to Mr G had not been 
inappropriate, saying:
Mr and Mrs G both took out PEPs In 1993 with Mr G's £12,000 split between  the UK Growth 
and Selector Income  Fund; Mrs G invested 6K in the UK Selector  Fund
The 1999  fact find mentioned these policies  and confirmed 'they had invested for several  
years and they were  very pleased with the performance of them
In 2014 Mr G transferred  his funds  to another provider
The UK Growth Fund invested In blue chip UK FTSE companies, not Inappropriate for 
somebody with six years' experience
There does not seem to be any question that these plans were  affordable and sustainable
Overall they had a balance  of savings  and investments. Given their ages they were  in a 
position to invest for the long term - as they have - and as a result the UK growth  fund was 
suitable option at that time
The team manager still felt the advisor should not have  recommended either Mr or Mrs G should have  
invested in a medium risk fund.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN70449093Firstly, I should say that I have offered only a brief summary of the exchanges  between Lloyds and 
the team  manager at this service even though I have read and considered  everything said by all 
parties including Mr and Mrs Gs representative.
Crucially, given that Lloyds has now accepted that Mrs G should,  on balance,  have only been 
recommended to invest her £11,000 in a low risk investment (and agreed to pay compensation  
accordingly) my role now is to consider whether this would have made  the overall advice  reasonable.  
In other words, if the advisor had recommended  Mr and Mrs G invest  just £11,000 in the UK Growth  
Fund and £11,000 in a suitably  low risk fund would this have necessarily  still been poor advice.
In essence, I am not persuaded that it would  have been.
The evidence  indicates that Mr and Mrs G had more  investment experience than initially suggested 
and would have had some awareness  of the risks of stock  market-linked investments. So I have to 
take into account  the extent  to which  they were actively prepared to take a reasonable degree of risk 
with their money as well as the wisdom of exposing  it to such risk. In my view,  while  some 
inexperienced investors may have had little or no real understanding of what they were  letting 
themselves in for, I dont think this was the case  with Mr and Mrs G.
I am satisfied  that the advice  to invest so much (£22,000) in a medium risk fund was not suitable but I 
am not convinced that a recommendation of just £11,000 would necessarily  have been inappropriate 
given their prior experience and future investment decisions.
I acknowledge that other investment decisions are not a reliable guide to a clients likely appetite for 
risk  as they may have been badly advised on those occasions  but in this case I think  the evidence 
indicates that Mr G has been prepared  to expose significant sums of money  to stock market  risk over 
many years. I therefore feel it would not be fair or reasonable to conclude  that he did not want to take 
the recommended  risk with £11,000 of their money in 1999.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct Lloyds  to pay compensation as outlined  by the team manager 
(using this services low risk formula) but only apply this to the £11,000 invested in Mrs Gs name. It 
should compare  the value of Mrs Gs UK Growth fund on the date she encashed this money in 2005 
with what the £11,000  would have been worth if invested in a suitably low risk fund, using  this 
services low risk formula (as outlined  by the team  manager). If this shows a loss it should pay this 
plus 8% simple interest per annum from that date to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
Finally, I note that in Lloyds  most recent response it appears to go back  on its previous  position that 
Mrs G should  not have invested in a medium  risk fund. I would therefore like it to clarify this. That 
said, I am satisfied that this recommendation exposed too much of Mr and Mrs Gs overall funds to an 
excessive degree of risk, and will further elaborate on my thinking if Lloyds has altered its view.  My 
view about the suitability of this advice  was not solely based on Mrs Gs circumstances. But given Mrs 
Gs particular circumstances I am satisfied  it is appropriate for redress to be based on the £11,000 in 
her name.    
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7044909