K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund some  disputed transactions  
which go back some  three  years.
background
Mr H complained to NatWest about recurring iTunes  transactions on his account.  He  
complained in May 2019 and explained the payments had been going out of his account 
since April 2016.  He  said he didnt  have an iTunes  account and hadnt  authorised  these 
payments. He told NatWest he had already  complained  to iTunes  who had refunded  the last 
four months of payments  but wouldnt refund anymore.
During this initial call, Mr H told NatWest he wasnt asking that it refunds the payments.  
What he seemed to suggest is that NatWest  simply raise a fraud case  and let iTunes know  
this.
NatWest advised  that as the payments went back further than 13 months,  it wouldnt 
investigate Mr Hs complaint at all  this included raising the fraud claim with iTunes.  It didnt 
seem to explain why the 13 months was relevant.  It then offered Mr H £50 for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
So, Mr H brought his complaint to this service  where our investigator looked  into matters  for 
him. She (the investigator)  asked Mr H for some  further evidence.   He had said iTunes  had 
confirmed the account which had been  set up with it was not in Mr Hs name and that it could 
only refund  the transactions for the last 120 days because it was unable  to go back  any 
further on its systems.  Mr H said iTunes  had told him that if his bank were to raise a 
chargeback on the payments, they would most likely  be successful. So, Mr H was asked to 
forward a copy of these  conversations to the investigator.  He didnt do this.
Based on what the investigator had sight of, she didnt think  NatWest had to do anymore. 
She pointed  out that it was wrong  to apply the 13 months rule in relation to all the 
transactions because  some of those being  disputed were still within time.  However, she 
thought the payments had originally  been  set up by Mr H and he might have forgotten that 
he was making them.  So, even if NatWest had investigated the transactions,  the result would 
still have been  the same because she thought  the transactions had been authorised.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I arrive at 
the same  conclusion as the investigator  and for very much  the same  reasons.
investigating the fraudulent transactions and chargeback
The relevant  rules say if the transactions are raised  more than 13 months after they 
occurred, a business is not required to investigate them.  But  we would  also expect this 
exclusion to appear  in the terms and conditions of a customers  account.
Ref: DRN72217112In Mr Hs case, I can see the exclusion appears  but not all the transactions  he complained 
about fell outside of the time limit.  He complained to NatWest  in May 2019   so those 
transactions from April 2018 fell to be investigated and NatWest was wrong  to say it would 
not do so.
But, like the investigator, Ive gone  on to consider whether the outcome would have been 
any different here if NatWest had investigated  the transactions  and I dont think  it would.
I have also considered the impact this refusal would have had on the chargeback process  
and Ive thought about whether  NatWests refusal  to make a chargeback request was unfair.  
I think it was  because  although not enshrined  in law, we consider chargeback requests to 
be good industry practice.  NatWest simply refused to investigate the complaint and so the 
chargeback request also failed.
Again, I dont think a chargeback request was likely to succeed  and so, I dont think  the 
outcome would have  been different for Mr H.  However, I do think  the service  from NatWest 
was poor  and for that I think  the offer of £50 already  made is a fair and reasonable one. In 
the circumstances of this case, I dont think an increase would be fair or reasonable.
disputed transactions
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr H authorised 
these payments, NatWest  is entitled  to hold him liable.  But  NatWest  needs to show the 
payments were authenticated as well as Mr H consenting to them.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied the payments were authenticated  in that Mr 
Hs card details were used to set the payments up.  The remaining transactions were 
recurring payments.
I then need to decide whether Mr H consented to the payments  and I think  he did.  
These payments  left Mr Hs account every month for three years and were set up using his 
card details.  He didnt report he had lost his card  but what  he did insist on was that he had 
had his phone stolen about two years ago.  He sent us a screenshot  purporting to be an app 
on his phone attempting to be used abroad  whilst  he was in the UK.  However, he didnt 
explain how this would  have allowed  someone to set up this payment from his NatWest 
account.
And I think if iTunes had confirmed he had been  making payments to an account not in his 
name, it would  have done more than refund only the last four months worth of payments.
I cant be sure whether Mr H had forgotten he had set this payment  up or realised after such  
a long time that he had hadnt been making use of the service.   But either way, I think  he 
authorised them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Ref: DRN72217113Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7221711