K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection policy (PPI)
policy.
background
Mr M took out PPI in 1996 to protect his mortgage  repayments. Nationwide  cant confirm 
where or how the sale took place. Mr M recalls it was in one of its branches.  The policy 
covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly  amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr M disagreed so
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here) I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words,  on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence  and what  we 
know about how Nationwide  typically  sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was advised to take out PPI, he was told that without it he would not be 
eligible for a mortgage.  Nationwide  says the PPI would have been presented  as optional. 
This was its usual sales process  and Mr M would have had the choice of either  selecting  or 
declining it after hed been given information  on the cover, including the cost.  
There is no paperwork available from Mr Ms sale, but thats not unreasonable  given how 
long ago the sale was. And I cant know what was said at the time. I have thought  carefully 
about everything Mr M has told us about  the sale. And whilst I dont doubt these are his 
honest recollections of the meeting, I have to take into account that it was over 20 years  ago 
and that this might affect what he now remembers.
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude  that Nationwide  didnt make Mr M 
aware that he had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that he didnt opt to take it.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M, but Mr M recalls he was advised to 
take it, and the sales adviser did nothing to check if it was suitable for him. 
I dont need to make a finding on this point,  however, as even if Nationwide  had 
recommended the PPI to Mr M I dont think it was unsuitable for him. Ill explain why. Mr M 
has told us he was entitled to 12 months full pay and 12 months half pay if he was sick or 
made redundant. We have asked a number  of times for more  information on these  benefits  
as they are unusually generous and not common, particularly  given  he told us he had only 
been in his role for just over two years. Mr M hasnt provided any supporting documentation 
so I dont think I can fairly rely on his testimony to conclude he didnt  need  PPI. He could be 
honestly mistaken as hes trying  to recall something from over 20 years ago. 
Ref: DRN77511172In addition, even  if he was in receipt  of such generous benefits, the PPI would have paid out 
alongside them, and for up to 24 months  under this policy.    
Mr M said he had savings  of around £15,000  but again hasnt been able to provide any 
details about them. The PPI would have allowed him to use any savings to cover  other  living 
expenses whilst not working  or to keep them intact for his future  needs.  He told us family 
would have helped  but thats  not suitable  alternative protection.  Its not guaranteed and 
peoples circumstances  can change. Mr M also said he had a car he couldve sold, but the 
PPI would have  meant  he didnt need  to take such an extreme  measure, at what  might have 
been a difficult  and impractical time if he was sick or looking for work.  
Given the consequences for Mr M of defaulting  on a significant debt secured against  his 
home, I think  the PPI would have been  useful  for him if he was sick or lost his job. 
Nationwide also had to make sure Mr M got all the information he needed  to decide if the 
PPI was right for him. Its possible the information  wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
But I dont think he wouldve been put off taking  out the policy if he had received better 
information. I say this because Mr M was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances at 
the time and the policys terms and conditions. And he wasnt  affected by any of the 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such as those  affecting  people with pre-existing 
medical conditions  or on certain types  of employment contract. As he couldve benefitted  
from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations would have changed his decision to buy it.
I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  to Mr M but the PPI was competitively priced  
and apparently affordable. And he could  cancel it without further cost if at any stage he no 
longer wanted  it.
So, it follows  I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7751117