K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 and increased in 2003. Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear in both 2002 and 2003 that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and they chose to take it out. I can understand why they cant 
remember this, but I can see that both Mr and Mrs M signed an application form 
(separate from their application  for the mortgage)  on both occasions when they 
bought PPI. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I 
think it was. For example, only Mr M was covered.  That reflects his and Mrs Ms 
circumstances, as Mrs M wasnt  eligible  for the PPI as she wasnt  working at the 
time. I think that shows a discussion  about  the PPI took place and Mr and Mrs M 
decided to buy it. Mr M wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  what Mrs M said about 
signing some  papers for a loan and taking  them home for Mr M to sign. I cant  be certain 
exactly what Mrs M is referring to  but it doesnt seem likely it was for the sale of the PPI, so 
this point doesnt change my decision.
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because  it got a high level 
of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds didnt  tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN73765792The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7376579