K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs S or Barclays sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions    
I reached in my provisional  decision - for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs S bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2001.  The loan included an amount  to pay for the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN79694162Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs S has said that she took out this PPI policy online. Based on what  Ive seen, I think  its more  likely  
that Mrs S took out this PPI policy and loan in branch.  
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Mrs Ss complaint because:
Although a copy of Mrs Ss loan agreement or PPI application is no longer available, Barclays 
have shown  us an example loan agreement that they say is representative of what Mrs S would 
have seen at the time of sale. This loan agreement sets out a separate  cost for PPI and 
presumably it would  have been added to the document following a discussion.   
On balance I think its more  likely than not that Barclays did use this loan agreement and made  
Mrs S aware that PPI was optional before she agreed to take it out. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs S  and it seems to have been right for her based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time - so far. 
Theres been  some inconsistency in Mrs Ss recollection of her employment circumstances  at the 
time of sale.  Given the time thats passed this isnt surprising. Our adjudicator made  a number of 
information requests to definitely clarify  Mrs Ss employment  circumstances, but the response 
received doesnt clearly show me her circumstances  at the time of sale.  
Mrs S has told us that she was employed on a 3 month fixed term contract. Barclays have shown 
us bank statements  that show Mrs S receiving a regular monthly income  
- presumably  employment earnings from a different company to who shes told us she was 
employed by before and after the PPI was taken out and they were made for a number  of years  
after the loan and PPI were taken out.
If Mrs S was employed  on a temporary, 3 month contract and these  earning  were not employment  
earnings, she now has an opportunity to clarify her circumstances with supporting evidence. For 
example, she may still have copies of old employment contracts or proof of her national insurance 
and tax contributions around the time the PPI was taken out. 
Ive also noted that the regular income amount  was £72.35 per month.  If this was employment 
income it suggests  that Mrs S possibly  could have been working for less than the 37.5 hours  per 
week shes told us about. Again, Mrs S now has an opportunity to clarify  her circumstances with 
supporting evidence before I issue my final decision. 
Due to the inconsistencies  in the evidence, and for the purposes of my decision,  based on what 
Ive seen so far, Ive considered that Mrs S was eligible for the PPI and would  have been able to 
make a claim if she was made unemployed  as there are inconsistencies in what  shes told us and 
no supporting  evidence has been provided so far. 
Given how long the policy could  have  paid out for, if Mrs S made a successful claim  she couldve 
got back  quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Ref: DRN79694163Mrs S wouldve got back only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  early. 
I dont know if Barclays thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it explained the 
situation clearly to Mrs S. But I havent seen anything to suggest she thought  shed repay  the loan 
early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for her  or that better  information about 
this wouldve stopped her buying it.
As well as making a suitable recommendation about the PPI, Barclays also had to give Mrs S 
good enough information about the PPI so that she could decide whether or not she wanted to 
take it out. 
Its possible Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs S doesnt 
appear to have been  affected by any of those things.
The cost of the policy  was shown  including  the amount  of the premium, the interest payable on 
the premium and the total cost. So I think Mrs S would have understood how much the PPI would  
cost if she kept the policy for its full term.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments, but these points dont currently change  my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
If either Mrs S or Barclays Bank UK PLC have anything further to add, they should do so by 15 June 
2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7969416