K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs C was sold a PPI policy over the phone  in 1995. During the course of our investigation 
into Mrs Cs complaint, she told us she had a medical condition  when  she was sold the 
cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint initially didnt  uphold  it. But when he got the 
new information about Mrs Cs medical  condition, he changed his view.  He didnt think FICL 
had made  it clear to Mrs C the PPI didnt cover  accident and sickness  claims caused by her 
medical condition . And he didnt  think  Mrs C wouldve  bought the PPI if this had been  made  
clear. 
FICL says Mrs Cs condition can be manageable  and, if it was, it was unlikely to cause her to 
have enough time off work for her to claim  on the policy. Mrs Cs complaint has therefore 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs C enough  clear information about the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs C the clear  information it shouldve,  she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs C was sold wouldnt have covered her for accident  and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs C says she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition by a consultant in 1989, having been  unwell for a couple 
of years.  Her GP has confirmed the diagnosis was made in 1989.  Mrs C says that, by the 
time she was sold the cover, shed recovered from most of the acute symptoms  of her 
condition but not from the chronic  ones,  which she says are lifelong. Among other things, 
Mrs C says, at the time of the sale, the condition impacted on many areas of her life and was 
always at the forefront of her mind.
Although Mrs C didnt tell us, or FICL, about  her medical condition from the start, I dont 
doubt what shes told us about it since and how it affected her. And because of this, I think  
the exclusion its likely the policy had for accident  and sickness claims arising from known 
medical conditions  wouldve  mattered to Mrs C. Mrs C was sold the PPI during a phone  call 
but I dont have a call recording nor is there a call script to give me any indication  of how the 
Ref: DRN71134522PPI was presented  to her. So I havent seen anything to show  me FICL  made  the exclusion 
clear to Mrs C at the time.
I dont think its likely  Mrs C wouldve gone  ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt  
likely to have been covered if shed needed  time off work because  of her medical condition. 
It follows that I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C wouldve owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN71134523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7113452