K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a car provided  through finance  from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS)  wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  Hes since traded the car in and wants  
VWFS to refund him the money he paid towards the finance agreement and any other  costs  
associated with the car.
background
In May 2017  Mr W took out a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS for a car. It was brand 
new and cost about £30,000. Around five months later Mr W says he experienced a fault 
with the car and he took it back to the dealership. It tried to re-produce  the fault Mr W had 
reported but said it couldnt. It completed some precautionary work on the car but ultimately 
said it couldnt find anything wrong  with it.
Mr W remained unhappy and complained to VWFS, but it said that because no fault had 
been identified  it didnt think it needed to do anything further. However, Mr W still didnt think 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  and, as a result, he wanted to reject it. He brought  his 
complaint to this service,  and one of our investigators agreed with Mr W that he should be 
able to reject  the car.
VWFS disagreed, saying  that the car was operating as expected. This didnt change the 
investigators mind, so the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt think VWFS  needed to do anything more.  
My provisional decision said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im considering reaching 
a different outcome to the investigator.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that 
the car must  be of satisfactory  quality. As the supplier and finance provider, VWFS is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. The car in this case was brand 
new. As such it should have been  fault free and functioning without  any major problems for a 
reasonable period of time.  VWFS thinks it supplied Mr W a fault free car. Mr W disagrees. 
Mr W says the car operated as expected for the first five months. But in October 2017  the 
Adaptive Cruise  Control (ACC) activated  for no reason,  which meant the car came  to a stop 
suddenly. Mr W says the weather conditions at the time were dry, the road was clear, and 
there was no reason  the ACC should have activated. 
VWFS provided details about how the ACC works  including its limitations. Ive looked  at the 
drivers manual and there  are a number of things  that could cause the ACC to activate and 
make the car slow down  or brake. These  include tight bends, traffic islands, vehicles 
travelling slightly to the left or right of the car, to name a few.   
Ref: DRN71109122When Mr W took the car to the dealership in October 2017 some  fault codes  were  identified 
that seemed to relate to the ACC. The dealership  consulted the VW service  department  and 
was told there was technical product  information  that related to a very similar issue to the 
problem Mr W said he had encountered.  Throughout January 2018  the dealership completed 
some remedial work which was in line with the technical product information and had been 
suggested by the VW service department. This included adjusting  the settings of the front 
assist, updating  the front sensor and replacing  the ACC control unit.
After this was done, the car was test driven  extensively and another  diagnostic  report was 
completed. A further fault code was identified  but the service department said this was a 
sporadic fault code  due to environmental factors which it wasnt concerned about. It said the 
car was fault free and ready to be collected  by Mr W. But Mr W maintained that he didnt 
have faith in the car and he wanted  to reject it. 
VWFS arranged  for an independent  inspection to be carried out. The report said when the 
electronic diagnostic test was run two fault codes were identified. The first related to the 
Climate Control System and the second  to the Driver  Help System  Distance Controller.  It 
suggested that the latter could be related  to the ACC, but the inspector couldnt say whether 
the fault code  was current or historical, or whether it had been  caused by the dealerships 
diagnostic tests.
VWFS asked  for the dealerships service department to look into the fault code to try to 
diagnose it. But the only code it could find was in relation to the car battery requiring 
charging. It said the fault codes that were  identified by the independent  inspection  werent  
known to it. As a result it still thought the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Taking the above into account, I think its more likely what Mr W experienced was a one-off, 
rather than that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality. I say this because:
-Mr W drove the car without  issue for five months. I think  if thered been a fault with the 
ACC at the point  of sale it would have presented itself much sooner;
-the event Mr W has told us about  happened once. The dealership was unable  to 
replicate it, despite road tests. Its not unknown for some things to mean the ACC 
activates when  it shouldnt  as set out in the drivers manual. This is a limitation, rather  
than a fault;
-The dealership  did find fault codes. These seemed to relate to the ACC. But theyre 
meant to flag a potential  fault to an engineer, rather than prove there  definitely  is one. 
When inspected,  an engineer couldnt  identify a fault with the ACC.  
If there had been a fault with the ACC, meaning  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr W, VWFS  would have been entitled  to an attempt to put it right. Even 
though it didnt think there was a fault with the car VWFS updated and upgraded the ACC. 
Since then the car has been  diagnosed and road tested, and the problem  Mr W has told us 
about hasnt reoccurred. So even  if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr W, I think VWFS  actions  would have corrected this. This means I still 
wouldnt have concluded Mr W was entitled  to reject the car.
Overall, I think its most likely the car VWFS supplied to Mr W was of satisfactory  quality. 
And even  if it wasnt, I think its action since have rectified this. So I dont think I can fairly  ask 
Ref: DRN71109123VWFS to refund him the money he paid towards the finance agreement, or any other costs 
associated with the car.
the responses to my provisional  decision
VWFS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr W disagreed with it. In summary, he said 
that other  similar cars are having the same problem he experienced, so he doesnt  think  it 
was a one-off  incident. He also said that if VWFS was confident with all the repairs it should 
have provided  him with written confirmation  that the car was free from defects  which is 
something he had asked for on a couple of occasions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is inconclusive,  
as some of it is here, I reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  
I consider is most likely to be the case in light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
I acknowledge what Mr W says about  other cars having a similar problem. Given the 
technical product  information which related to a very similar issue  to what  Mr W had 
encountered, I accept  this could be the case.  But there wasnt  a recall on cars of the same 
make, model, and age as Mr Ws  and the purpose of this technical product information was 
to provide details  of suggested remedial work. VWFS completed  the remedial work on the 
car in line with the technical product information and, after testing, the fault didnt  recur.  
Im also mindful that cars are complicated,  meaning  that what others have experienced may 
not necessarily have been caused by the same, or even something related to the same, 
underlying reason as Mr Ws own experience. In the absence of anything  further  thats 
specifically related to this car, on balance I remain satisfied  for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision  that Mr Ws car was most  likely of satisfactory quality  at the time it was 
supplied. But even  if Id come to a different conclusion about this, the work VWFS carried  out 
in accordance with the technical  product information  was  in my view  appropriate, and 
enough to put any issues right.
I acknowledge that Mr W wanted a letter from VWFS to say the vehicle was free from 
defects. I consider that VWFS did this, albeit  maybe not in the way Mr W wanted.  It couldnt 
reasonably foresee any defects that might  present themselves in the future, so I can 
understand why VWFS  didnt want to write a specific letter to say the car was free from all 
defects. In any case, Im satisfied the dealership continued to test drive the car to ensure it 
was free from the suspected ACC fault, and it contacted Mr W on a couple of occasions  to 
say it was happy with how the car was performing.  
Ref: DRN71109124my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rachel Killian
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110912