K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy One Call Claims Limited (OCC) didnt  arrange for his car to be repaired to a 
satisfactory standard after he was involved in a road traffic accident. 
background
In 2016, Mr R was involved in a road traffic  accident  that wasnt  his fault. He didnt make  a 
claim against his motor insurance policy but used the services of OCC, an accident  
management company.  
In December 2016, Mr Rs car was taken for repair and once repaired returned to him in 
February 2017. After  its return, there was a need for some rectification work  to be done  for 
alignment and paint effects.  But overall, once this was completed, Mr R was satisfied with 
the repair work and continued to use his car.
But in October  2018, Mr R was involved in another  road traffic  accident. And on his car being 
inspected was told his insurer wouldnt  cover the full cost of repair because they said there  
was a pre-existing substandard repair done  to the O/S rear panel.
Mr R complained to OCC. They arranged for an independent engineer to assess Mr Rs car. 
And the independent engineer said the repairs done after his accident in 2016  had been  
completed to a satisfactory  standard. And that the O/S rear panel needed to be replaced due 
to the damage  caused by the latest  accident.  
Mr R wasnt happy with OCCs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the assessments  done on Mr Rs car gave different opinions  as to 
whether the repair  was or wasnt done  to an acceptable standard. She asked Mr R to 
arrange a further examination of his car. This third report supported the assessment that the 
repairs done after the accident  in 2016 hadnt been  done to an acceptable  standard. Our 
investigator said that OCC should arrange for the rectification work to be done.
OCC didnt agree as they said the third report hadnt  fully considered  Mr Rs car as it said 
further inspection  was needed.  And the damage they pointed out could have been the result 
of the latest accident or caused during the intervening two years. They  asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
When there is conflicting evidence, as is the case here. I will determine my decision on what  
I think most  likely happened.
In 2016, Mr R had a non-fault accident. The independent  engineers report  at the time listed  
the work  that needed to be done  and the new parts  required  to repair  Mr Rs car. And the car 
was repaired and returned to Mr R in February  2017. Ive seen the invoice provided by the 
repairing garage and this reflects the work authorised by the independent  engineer. I can 
Ref: DRN73576562also see that the repairing garage confirmed  to Mr R that the O/S rear panel had been 
replaced at the time of the accident.
After Mr R complained to OCC about what hed been told about  his motor insurance  claim. 
OCC arranged in November 2018 for a further inspection  to be done to determine whether  
the previous repairs  were  adequate. The report said:
This previous  repair does  not compromise  the structure of the vehicle, nor do the previous 
repairs affect the reinstating of the vehicle  back to its original condition.
In December 2018, another independent  engineer  assessed Mr Rs car this report said:
 wrong repair methods had been  employed  for the vehicle in question during the 
previous replacement of the quarter panel 
And went on to say:
.in my considered opinion the replacement  option  is no longer viable due to the panel
having already  been  compromised  by fusion welding.
From my understanding I dont think Mr Rs insurer is questioning the replacement of the 
O/S rear panel, as it had been  damaged by the accident being  claimed  for. But the evidence 
from an independent engineers assessment that there was structural damage to Mr Rs car 
that had been caused not by the latest  accident but by a pre-existing  repair.
One report says it hasnt the other  that says it has. And the November 2018 report says that 
either way the O/S rear panel would need to be replaced again due to the latest incident.
After the recommendation of our investigator,  Mr R arranged for a further independent  
engineer to assess his car. In March 2020 this said:
 
If the panel has been replaced then it has not been carried out to the manufactures  correct  
methods as the new panel should have been  bonded on and not spot welded due the high 
strength steel construction of the panels.  This would affect the strength and rigidity of the 
vehicle. 
And went on to say:
To rectify  the issues would require  the replacement of the quarter panel  and inner  frames  
that the panel is connected to using the correct repair  methods.
Independent engineers  dont work  specifically for either party and would  have made their 
own assessment. So, having looked  at all of the reports I think  the O/S rear panel would 
need to be replaced again  due to damage caused  by the latest accident. And Id expect  this 
to be part of Mr Rs motor  insurance claim. But Im persuaded  that Mr Rs car does have 
other structural damage. And I think this structural damage did pre-exist the latest  accident  
as I think Mr Rs car was structurally compromised  when it was repaired in 2016. Im 
satisfied that the reports show  that this was caused by the repairing garage  using  the wrong 
method of welding to replace the O/S rear panel.
Mr R has already shown, in 2016, when he wasnt happy with the alignment and paint effect 
repairs, that he asked  for these to be put right. And it was arranged for this rectification work 
Ref: DRN73576563to be done. So, I think if Mr R had known that the structure of his car had been compromised 
by the repair  done to replace his O/S rear panel,  he would have sought rectification for this 
as well, at the time.
my final decision
So, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint and ask One Call Claims Limited to rectify the structural 
damage caused to Mr Rs car by the previous repair carried out in 2016.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7357656