K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The equity in Ms Ls home was transferred solely to her in 2002. At the same time she took 
out a mortgage and a PPI policy with HSBC.
Ms L says that she didnt  know she had the PPI. She says she wasnt  told anything  about it 
and she didnt know what the benefits  were.
The adjudicator thought  that Ms Ls complaint  shouldnt be upheld. Ms L disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ls 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ms L says that she didnt  know she had PPI. She says she wasnt told anything about it. 
HSBC has provided  documents that show its representative discussed the PPI as part of a 
complete review of her circumstances when she wanted to take out the further borrowing. 
These documents show that the PPI was optional and that Ms L was provided  with the Key 
Features Document for the policy and that her right to cancel was explained to her. A follow-
up letter  was sent to Ms L three  days later detailing the recommendations again.
The premiums were  paid by a direct  debit which was separate  to the mortgage repayments. 
This would have to have  been set up by Ms L. I dont think Ms L would have set up this 
direct debit if she didnt know what it was for. 
So, on balance, I think Ms L agreed  to buy the PPI knowing  she had a choice about it, even 
if she doesnt remember that now.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Ms L so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was 
right for her. Looking at her circumstances at the time I think that it was. I say this because:
Ms L was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might  have  made it more difficult for her to make  a successful claim, such  as 
those related to self-employment or existing medical  conditions;
Ms L told HSBC she thought she had six months sick pay through her employer.  The 
policy would have  paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than her sick 
pay would have  lasted;
Ms L would likely have received some statutory redundancy  pay from her employer, 
but, again, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months  
at a time.  So Ms L could have used any redundancy pay for other uninsured 
expenses;
Ref: DRN76695852Ms L was solely responsible for her mortgage,  so it was important that she was able 
to keep up with the repayments if she wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. The cost was clearly disclosed and the policy  could have been 
cancelled at any time without a financial  penalty  so it offered flexibility to Ms L.
Its possible Ms L didnt receive all the detailed information she should have done, although I 
accept there  was a face to face discussion about  the policy and she received the product 
brochure. But even  if she didnt get everything she needed, I dont think  this would have 
made a difference to her decision  to buy it because it was suitable for her in the way Ive 
already described.
So I dont  think Ms L lost out as a result of anything HSBC might  have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint so it follows that HSBC UK Bank plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7669585