K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about delays in transferring his ISA from Idealing.com  Limited to another  
business. Hes unhappy that it took over five months to transfer the cash balance.
 
background
Mr R applied to transfer his ISA held by Idealing to another business  (Bank  A) on 19 January 
2018. The ISA was made up of 10 lines of stock and a cash balance of around  £14,400.  A 
signed Transfer Authorisation (TA) form was sent to Idealing by Bank A on 24 January 2018  
and followed  up on 8 and 24 February.  The form stated that any cheques should  be made 
payable to Bank A Smart  Investor and the beneficiary account  should be identified.
The stock  transfer  was completed  by 26 February 2018 but the transfer  of the cash balance 
wasnt completed until 4 July 2018.  Bank A got in touch with Idealing on 19 March to query  
the progress of the cash transfer. Idealing responded to Bank  A on 20 March and explained 
that two cheques had been  sent,  a cheque  for £14,262.15 (relating to Mr Rs ISA) on 6 
March and a cheque for £57.34 (relating to Mr Rs dealing account) on 14 March.
Bank A contacted Idealing on 30 March to say the cheques still hadnt been  received. On 13 
April Bank  A got back in touch with Idealing, asked  for the cheques  to be resent and 
confirmed the address  where they should  be sent.  Idealing issued new cheques on 18 April 
made out to Bank A Plc which were  received  by Bank A on 19 April.
On 26 April Bank A wrote to Idealing to explain that they couldnt accept and process the 
cheques that were sent in March because they were made out to an incorrect  account  name  
 Bank  A Stockbrokers Limited. They asked Idealing to replace the cheques and make  them  
out to Bank A Smart Investor.
Mr R complained to Bank A in May 2018,  following this there  was further correspondence 
between Bank A and Idealing. Bank  A told Idealing that they hadnt received the second set 
of cheques  despite it later being shown that they were received in April - and asked for 
them to be resent. Idealing expressed concern that the second  set of cheques  hadnt been 
received and confirmed that theyd been sent to the correct address. They also told Bank  A 
that the cheques had been made out to Bank A Smart Investor.
Bank A asked Idealing  to issue the cheques  for the third time in early June. There  was some 
further discussion around who the cheques  should be made out to  Bank  A said they 
should be made out to Bank  A Smart Investor  - but Idealing said they had to be made out to 
Bank A Plc. This was because Bank A Smart Investor wasnt  listed  in HMRC's list of
Authorised ISA Managers. 
Idealing made  the cheques  out to Bank A Plc and sent them out on 8 June and they were 
received on 11 June. A few days later, Bank  A confirmed that they should be able to bank 
the cheques. They  then had further  issues locating the cheques internally but they were 
eventually found  and the outstanding cash balance was credited on 4 July.
Bank A upheld Mr Rs complaint and awarded him £300 in compensation. Mr R also 
complained to Idealing but they didnt uphold  his complaint. They  thought that they didnt 
cause the delay and it was the fault of Bank  A. They said they had issued two cheques  to 
Bank A in a timely fashion on three  separate  occasions. And in all three cases Bank A 
Ref: DRN74772652received the cheques promptly yet misplaced them internally and claimed that they had not 
received them. 
Mr R didnt agree with their findings  and brought the complaint to this service.  It was 
considered by one of our investigators who upheld  the complaint.  She said that while Bank A 
had admitted that they made errors,  she was unable to agree they were wholly responsible.  
She said that Idealing  made out the first cheque to Bank A Stockbrokers Ltd which  was an 
entity which was defunct and therefore the cheque  could never have been banked. And she 
also noted that Idealing were informed  on at least three occasions  that the cheques should  
be made payable  to Bank A Smart Investor  but failed on each occasion to comply  with the 
requests without providing any reasoning  behind  until 5 June.
She believed  that if the cheques had been paid to the correct  entity in the first instance with 
Mr Rs identity reference, the cheques would have  passed through Bank As system within a 
period of days, rather than being misplaced. She thought Mr R should be offered a payment 
of £200 for the trouble and upset caused  to him in settlement of his complaint.
Idealing asked for evidence that:
Had the cheques  contained Mr R's correct  ID reference they would have  passed  
through Bank As system in a matter of days
The cheques were  not sent with Mr R's correct ID reference
The entity that the cheques were made out to was in fact incorrect.
The investigator provided them with copies of the March cheques  which  showed  they made 
out to Bank A Stockbrokers Limited. She clarified that they were made out to the wrong 
entity although the ID reference was not an issue. 
She also said that Bank A had confirmed that once  a cheque  was received with the correct 
entity and ID reference,  they were obliged to bank it on the same working day to their 
Collections account and they were required to apply the funds to the customers  Smart 
Investor account on the following day (two working  days in total).  She went  on to say that her 
assessment remained  unchanged  and asked  Idealing  to confirm if they accepted her 
findings.
I cant see that Idealing  ever replied so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator. I will now explain why.
Its clear that there have  been errors by both parties. Bank A appear to have misplaced 
cheques and told Idealing  that they didnt receive  cheques when in fact they had, and 
theyve compensated  Mr R for their poor service. 
Ref: DRN74772653I think Idealing have  also made an error in that they made out the first cheque to the wrong 
entity. The TA form they received from Bank  A clearly stated that any cheques  should be 
made out to Bank A Smart Investor, but Idealing didnt follow  this instruction and made  it out 
to Bank  A Stockbrokers Limited. 
They also incorrectly told Bank  A that they had made the second set of cheques out to Bank 
A Smart Investor and declined to make the third set of cheques out to the entity Bank A had 
requested. I appreciate that it later came to light that the second set of cheques could have 
been banked but this wasnt  confirmed  until June, which was after three sets of cheques  had 
been issued.
Im not persuaded by the reason Idealing has given as to why they couldnt  make the 
cheques out to the specified entity. I say this because they made the first set of cheques out 
to an entity which hasnt been  authorised since June 2017  (according to the Financial 
Services Register) so I dont think that Bank A Stockbrokers Limited would have been on the 
list of Authorised ISA Managers  in March  2018.
I think given what Bank  A has said about the process they follow when they receive cheques  
made out to the correct entity,  its more likely than not that the cash  balances would have 
been transferred  earlier  if Idealing  had made  the cheques out as per the TA. I also think  that 
if Idealing had made Bank A aware  earlier that they werent going  to make the cheques out 
to the specified entity, then other arrangements  could have been made to transfer the cash  
balances e.g. bank transfer. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr R has been caused distress and inconvenience by 
Idealings actions  hes been deprived  of a large sum of money  for a long time and 
therefore I think that £200 compensation is appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons Ive given above. I require Idealing.com Limited to 
pay Mr R £200 in compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7477265