K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that ITC Compliance  Limited mis-sold her a travel insurance policy and 
failed to record her pre-existing medical conditions. 
background
Ms M booked a holiday through ITC Compliance and also took out a travel  insurance policy. 
In selling the policy ITC was acting as an insurance  broker. 
Unfortunately, Ms M later suffered a heart attack  and was given medical  advice not to travel, 
so she had to cancel her holiday. 
Ms M attempted to claim on her travel insurance for the costs of the cancelled  holiday, but 
the claim was turned  down by the insurer. The insurer said this was because Ms Ms trip was 
cancelled due to a pre-existing medical condition.  And it said the policy she had didnt cover 
cancellations arising from any circumstances she already knew about. It said Ms M had 
needed to call its helpline to get a quote  for additional cover  for any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
Ms M said that when  booking her holiday with ITC Compliance, she advised  of two pre-
existing medical conditions over the phone  asthma  and angina.  So she made a complaint.
ITC Compliance responded to Ms Ms complaint and said it didnt record calls, so it wasnt 
possible to listen to the conversation between Ms M and its agent to establish what was 
said. It said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. And it said based on its usual  call 
script, it would have told Ms M she needed  to read the documentation  which  would be sent, 
and would need to ensure that the policy was suitable for her personal circumstances. It also 
said that the need to call the insurer to advise of pre-existing medical  conditions  was set out 
on the first page of the policy terms and conditions,  which had been sent to Ms M. 
Unhappy with the response to her complaint, Ms M asked our service  to look into what had 
happened. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
The call in which Ms M booked her holiday and took out the travel insurance  policy  
wasnt recorded. However the usual call script used by ITC Compliance covers the 
fact that the policyholder would need  to read through the documentation and check  
the policy is suitable for them. So I accepted that this is the information  that would 
have been provided  to Ms M during the call.
Id seen evidence  of the system notes made by ITC Compliance and the references 
to asthma were in connection with Ms Ms request for a hotel room on a low floor 
only. And there was no mention of angina within the system notes. I said I would 
expect that had Ms M discussed  her medical  conditions for the purpose of disclosure 
during the call, that ITC would  have advised her of the need to contact the insurer to 
make a declaration.  
Ref: DRN72131992Ms M had taken out a basic policy, which didnt include cover for any issues  arising  
from circumstances already known to her. So pre-existing  medical conditions  werent  
covered. The terms say, on the first page,  that the policyholder  must  contact  
a helpline  to declare  any pre-existing conditions,  so that the insurer can provide 
a quote for the additional cover needed.  Two of the conditions  listed are respiratory 
and cardiovascular,  so I thought it was sufficiently  clear  that Ms M needed to contact 
the insurer to tell them about her asthma and heart  condition,  in order to be covered.
Overall, I didnt  think ITC Compliance had done anything wrong. I accepted that its 
most likely that the agent Ms M spoke to would have  followed the call script, advising 
Ms M of the need to read the policy documents and to check the policy was suitable. 
And I thought  the information  about  pre-existing medical conditions  within  the policy 
was prominent  and clear. 
ITC Compliance offered a compensation payment of £100 in cash and £100 in the 
form of a holiday voucher, which it said was as a gesture of its goodwill. And as Id 
not found that ITC Compliance did anything  wrong,  I made no recommendation in 
this regard. And said if Ms M wants to accept the offer,  she should contact ITC 
Compliance directly. 
the response to my provisional  decision
Ms M responded to the decision. She maintained  she had declared angina on this occasion. 
And said she had declared her medical conditions to ITC Compliance  previously, as she had 
travelled with it many times before. 
She said she thought  she should have at least been offered a refund of half of the cost of 
her holiday.  However  she said she would accept  the decision.  
ITC compliance didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has said shes still of the belief  that she declared angina when booking her holiday. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision,  had this happened, I think  that based  on the 
call scripts  usually used  by ITC compliance,  Ms M would have been told to contact the 
insurer to make a medical declaration. 
Ms M also said she had travelled with ITC Compliance many times before and had declared 
her medical conditions. However ITC Compliance said their records showed Ms M had made 
only one previous booking with it, but this was cancelled on the same  day it was booked.  
And it said it had no record of any medical  conditions being mentioned at the time of that 
booking. 
Ref: DRN72131993The points Ms M has raised  havent  changed  my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. And 
I make  no award against ITC Compliance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7213199