K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs T are unhappy with the increases in their late mothers  (Mrs A) premiums on 
her car insurance policy held with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
Mrs A sadly  passed away while the complaint was with our service. For ease, I will refer to 
the late Mrs A simply as Mrs A within this decision. 
background
Mrs As car insurance with UKI started  in October  2012 and cost around £190.  
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in 2018, Mrs As annual  premium cost £500 
for the year.
In March 2019, Mrs A suffered a fall and was hospitalised. It was at this time that Mr A 
looked into Mrs As financial affairs. Mr A was shocked to discover that Mrs As policy had 
gone up from £200 to £500.  
Mr A contacted UKI. UKI offered a mid-term discount £38. Mr A kept the policy  running but 
complained to UKI that Mrs A had been overcharged over the years.
UKI looked into Mr As concerns and didnt think anything  had gone  wrong.  It explained that 
Mrs As policy automatically renewed each  year and renewal letters  were  sent out each year. 
UKI also explained that price it offered each year was correct  and there werent any errors  in 
its rating of the policy based on its underwriting criteria.
Unhappy Mr A referred the matter to our service. Mr A says he expected  the premium to go 
up each year in line with inflation  but thought UKI had taken advantage and increased the 
premium unfairly because Mrs A wasnt engaging with her renewals each  year. Mr A also 
explained that while Mrs A was elderly, she was only driving around 1,000  mile per year and 
this should be a factor of the price  not Mrs As age.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. They thought there  
were risk related reasons  for the increases  in Mrs As premiums  and UKI wasnt taking 
advantage of Mrs A just because she wasnt engaging. 
As Mr A disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether UKI treated Mrs A fairly throughout the time she held her car 
insurance policy with it.
Ref: DRN77688652Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.  
So Ive looked  into the policy Mrs A held with UKI to see what  happened.
Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk. And 
from this, it decides the costs associated with the risk. If an insurer thinks  theres  a greater 
risk than before,  the premium will increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.
UKI says the increases in Mrs As premiums over the years were  for risk related reasons. 
Broadly summarised UKI explained that; the older a consumer gets, the likelihood of that 
consumer needing  to claim becomes greater. So the risk is greater. As the risk increased it 
had an impact on the premium it decided  to charge Mrs A each year.  
UKI says it increased Mrs As premiums in line with its underwriting criteria which  factors in 
all potential  risks in insuring someone. Research shows that the older a consumer gets, the 
average claim cost for the insurer increases, as does the frequency of consumers claiming.  
And this increases each year in consumers over the age of 70. So there is a greater risk to 
insurers. As there is a greater risk, UKI prices the premium accordingly.
Im also mindful that Mrs A wasnt treated any differently to other consumers. UKIs 
underwriting criteria applied to all consumers. So someone of a similar age to Mrs A, would 
have experienced similar  increases each  year.  
From what  Ive seen, there  seem  to be legitimate risk related reasons  for the premium  
increasing over the years. Importantly  UKI, wasnt increasing Mrs As premiums  just because  
she wasnt engaging.  
I note Mr As comments, that in the later years Mrs A wasnt  driving as much; but the main  
factor in the increases in Mrs As premiums was her age. And as explained above UKI is 
entitled to form its own view of the risk providing  insurance, the factors  it believes are 
relevant in determining that risk and decide  the costs associated with that risk. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs T, 
on behalf of the estate  of Mrs A, to accept  or reject  my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77688653
Ref: DRN7768865