K820x#14The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), wont refund two ATM 
withdrawals made using his Halifax clarity credit  card that Mr J says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2020. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr J didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Halifax responded agreeing with provisional 
findings and confirmed it didnt have anything  further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
Overall, I havent seen enough  to suggest that the withdrawals were,  more likely than not, 
made without Mr Js consent. So I dont consider it would be fair to ask Halifax  to refund 
them to Mr J.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73131772Copy of Provisional Decision
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), wont refund two ATM withdrawals 
made using  his Halifax  clarity credit card that Mr J says he didnt authorise.  
What happened
On 25 July 2018,  Mr J went abroad on holiday  for seven nights. Mr J went with his friend  and his 
friends family. Their  accommodation was all inclusive  and the flight  back  to the UK was on 1 August 
2018 at 22:35pm.
Mr J shared a room with his friend. Mr J says he went out most nights  with his friend  and his friends 
family. Mr J says that they often went to restaurants or to bars / night-clubs  and he and his friend 
typically returned between  12 and 2am. Mr J says there was one night early on in the trip where  he 
returned to the room  early  as he was feeling unwell. But other than that, on nights out he was with his 
friend they stayed together, and they always returned to the hotel and room  together. 
Mr J says his budget for the week-long stay was around €450. Mr J took around €150 - €200 in cash  
and had his Halifax credit card for the remaining amount.
Below is a list of the transactions that occurred  on Mr Js credit card:
Date Time Transaction Authentication Amount Disputed
27/07/2018 - ATM Withdrawal Chip and PIN £177.87  (€200)
No
29/07/2018 - ATM Withdrawal Chip and PIN £47.09 (€52.95)
No
31/07/2018 22:50 ATM Withdrawal Chip and PIN £20.47   (€22.95)
Yes
31/07/2018 23:49 ATM Withdrawal Chip and PIN £226.01 (€252.95)
Yes
Mr J says that on 27 and 29 July 2018, he took out €200 and €50  which  Mr J says was the 
remainder of his budget.  But Mr J says that he didnt  make  or authorise the two withdrawals on 
31 July 2018 which totalled  around €270 (not including the €2.95 ATM fees). Mr J still had his card in 
his possession the day after the withdrawals. Mr J says the card was kept in his wallet and he was 
unsure how the withdrawals had occurred.
Mr J says he noticed the transactions the next day which was on the last day of his holiday 
(1 August 2018). Mr J contacted Halifax at this time. Mr J says he was told that the withdrawals were  
carried out using chip and PIN and that they would not investigate the matter and inferred Mr J may 
have had too much to drink and simply  not remembered making the withdrawals.
Mr J was unhappy  with the response but says he didnt have  time to continue  to discuss it with Halifax  
at that time as he needed to get his flight back to the UK.
When Mr J got back to the UK, he contacted Halifax to pursue his complaint about  the disputed 
withdrawals and to complain  about the way the Halifax agent had handled his calls.
Mr J was offered £15 for the way the Halifax agent had handled the call, which Mr J accepted.  And on 
29 August 2018, Halifax, wrote out to Mr J with its findings in relation  to the disputed  withdrawal 
transactions. 
Ref: DRN73131773Broadly summarised it concluded Mr J had explained that he hadnt shared  his PIN with anyone, and 
the card remained in his possession the next day. As the transactions were carried out using  Mr Js 
card and were authenticated using the correct PIN, and as there was no point of compromise on 
Mr Js PIN, Halifax considered he was liable  for the withdrawals. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and thought it should be upheld.  They considered 
that having  spoken to Mr J, in their opinion there was a point where Mr Js PIN was compromised. Mr 
J had informed  our investigator that on one occasion, when he made a cash  withdrawal  on 27 July 
2018, his friend (whom  I shall call Mr F) accompanied him. Our investigator thought  it was likely  that 
Mr F had watched Mr J while at the ATM and observed Mr Js PIN (often referred  to as shoulder 
surfing). Our investigator thought Mr F could  have  had access to Mr Js wallet or card and then made  
the ATM  withdrawal on 31 July 2018  without  Mr Js consent. 
Our investigator thought the disputed withdrawals should be refunded to Mr J and that Halifax should  
also pay a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Halifax didnt respond to the investigators opinion.  
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to a different conclusion  than the investigator 
reached. Ill explain  why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings  on what  I think  is more 
likely than not to have happened, based on the balance  of probabilities.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment  Services Regulations 2017  (PSR 
2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment  transaction  is regarded  as authorised if the payer  has given consent to 
the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment  service user (customer)  says they havent 
authorised an executed payment  the payment  service provider (in this case  Halifax) has to prove 
the payment transaction  was authenticated.   
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised.  PSR 2017 
goes on to say a payment  service provider is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised 
transaction to the payer.
Mr J says he didnt consent  or authorise the two withdrawals and is seeking a refund of the total 
payments made from his account. Halifax has said the disputed withdrawals were made  using  Mr Js 
genuine card and PIN and consider as Mr J hadnt shared  his PIN it hadnt been  compromised. So 
Halifax consider Mr J is liable  for the withdrawals made. 
So, first I need to think about  whether the evidence I have  suggests  that the transactions were  
authenticated and then second, I need to consider whether I think  it is likely that they were carried  
out with or without Mr Js consent.
 
Ref: DRN73131774The disputed transactions  were they authenticated?
 
Halifax has provided  evidence  to show  that Mr Js genuine card was used for the two disputed  
withdrawals. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The withdrawal transactions  were  all 
authenticated by the correct  PIN being entered.
So Im satisfied from Halifaxs technical evidence that Mr Js genuine card was physically present 
when the two disputed withdrawals were made and that the withdrawals in question were 
authenticated by Mr Js correct PIN being entered. 
This means  I now need to determine whether Mr J consented to the payments being made.
In order  to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party  to Mr W could have made  the 
withdrawals without his consent,  or whether  I think Mr J, or somebody with his knowledge  and 
consent, made the withdrawals Mr J is disputing.
Could an unknown party have made the transactions?
Mr Js credit card was kept in his wallet. Mr J has said that his PIN wasnt written down  anywhere and 
he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone.
Our investigator thought an unknown party carrying out the withdrawals was an unlikely scenario. And 
I agree. 
Mr J used the ATM on two occasions prior to the disputed withdrawals. Had an unknown party 
managed to obtain Mr Js PIN on either of the two occasions Mr J used the ATM, they would have 
also had to have waited several days to obtain the card and then use it and return it without  Mr J 
realising. 
With an opportunistic  theft I am also mindful  that the card is typically used as quickly as possible with 
the fraudster  often  maximising what they can withdraw. This didnt happen  here. There was a 
withdrawal for €20 and then an hour later another withdrawal  for €250. Had an unknown  party  
obtained the card and been successful with the first transaction  I would  expect the unknown 
fraudster to try and maximise what they could withdraw and as quickly as possible. Also the card is 
typically discarded as there would be no need  for an unknown party to try and return it. 
Based on whats happened  I think it is unlikely  an unknown party to Mr J obtained  his PIN and then 
subsequently the card and made the transactions and then returned it  without Mr J realising. 
Could a known party have made  the transactions without  Mr Js consent?
Our investigator thought this was the more likely  scenario. They considered that as Mr Js friend, Mr 
F, accompanied  Mr J on one occasion to the ATM there was the possibility that Mr Js PIN was 
compromised. And as a friend, they could have also had access  to Mr Js wallet and card and make 
the disputed withdrawals.
It is important for me to make it clear to Mr J that in order to uphold his complaint I have to be satisfied 
that this was more likely  than not what happened. If there is another situation or scenario that I think  is 
just as likely,  concluding in me considering there was a possibility that Mr J carried out the 
withdrawals or consented to them, then I wouldnt be minded to uphold the complaint.
While it is certainly not implausible that the scenario our investigator set out could  have happened,  
based on the balance  of probabilities I dont think this is more likely than not what  happened.
I say this after taking into account the overall circumstances of the holiday, the evidence  of the card 
usage being indicative of Mr Js spend while on holiday  and the testimony Mr J has provided to 
Halifax and to our service.
Ref: DRN73131775First, Mr J was on holiday with his friend and his friends family.  My starting position  here is that Mr J 
and Mr F must have been considerably close for Mr J to go abroad with Mr Fs family and to also 
share a room with Mr F. Mr J has also said that on occasions Mr Fs family  paid for some of the meals 
in the evening  if they went out and about in town. This strikes me as a close friend of Mr J and Mr J 
also being close with Mr Fs family.
It seems unlikely to me to simply say that while Mr F accompanied Mr J to an ATM on one occasion  
and could have possibly had sight of Mr Js PIN that this led to Mr F taking Mr Js card and using  it 
without Mr Js knowledge.  It doesnt tie in with the overall picture of Mr J going  on holiday with Mr F 
and his family. 
I also have to consider why Mr F would take the card and use it for a €20 withdrawal in the first 
instance and then a further €250 withdrawal around an hour later,  to then return the card to Mr J 
without him realising. Having the card for any prolonged time could have led to Mr J realising his card 
was missing and if Mr F had wanted to gain money, I question why he would have waited for another  
hour to make the second transaction when he could have completed a larger  withdrawal at the first 
ATM or at least followed  up the first withdrawal straight  away with a second withdrawal. 
Also, having looked at Mr Js spend  across the holiday I think there is a possibility that he may have 
simply spent more than he intended to which led to him requiring more funds  for his stay.  I say this 
because Mr J said his budget was around €450 for the week,  and he had taken around €150 - €200 of 
that, in cash.
Mr J arrived  at the holiday  destination late in the evening  on 25 July 2018. So Mr J had €150 - €200 
cash on him at this point. But Mr J then withdrew €200 on 27 July 2018 and a further €50 on 29 July 
2017.
Mr J says this was him taking out his remaining  budget. But I also have to consider the possibility that 
Mr J could have spent his €150-€200 cash by 27 July 2018 which is why he withdrew some more 
money on that date, and then again on 29 July 2018 having  to take out another €50. So it seems 
feasible to me that by 31 July 2018  Mr J may well have needed to take out more money  for the final 
days / evenings of his holiday. 
Mr J has also said that he was with his friend during the evenings and they would go to bars or night 
clubs. Mr J, during a call with our investigator, mentioned that he had gone to some nightclubs and 
had kept some of the ticket  stubs. One of these I noted was for a major nightclub.  Im mindful  that the 
entry tickets could have  been expensive as well as spending  any prolonged period of time in the club.
Given the holiday was all inclusive it seems to me that there  was a strong possibility that Mr J may 
have spent more than he intended to or had budgeted  for given that he, Mr F and Mr Fs family  didnt 
always stay at the all-inclusive hotel. The 31 July 2018  was also Mr Js last day and night of the 
holiday with Mr J travelling  home the next day on 1 August  2018, with the flight  departing at 22:35pm. 
So it isnt unreasonable to say there is a possibility  Mr J may have needed  more money for his last 
night of his holidays.
And while Mr J was upset that the Halifax agent inferred that Mr J may have made  the withdrawals 
and simply  not remembered  I have to consider  that this does often happen   and given that Mr J still 
had his card in his possession and had said that he hadnt  shared his PIN with anyone  I dont find it 
unreasonable for the Halifax  agent  to offer this scenario to Mr J at the time Mr J called. Although  by all 
accounts the Halifax agent sounded very dismissive  which led to Halifax  offering Mr J £15 for the 
way the call was handled.
Mr J has also said that when he was out with his friend, at any night clubs  or bars, they stayed 
together and made sure they returned home together.  So it seems unlikely that Mr Js friend left him 
on two occasions to make withdrawals without Mr J realising. 
Ref: DRN73131776Overall, while  I dont  know for sure what happened, given there is a possibility that there is another  
equally likely scenario  aside  from Mr Js friend obtaining his PIN and card, using it and returning  it 
without Mr J, I cant fairly say Halifax should be responsible for the withdrawals.  It seems just as likely 
that Mr J could have made the withdrawals and simply  not remembered  doing  so.
Currently I havent  seen enough to suggest that the withdrawals were, more likely than not, made  
without Mr Js consent.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  for the reasons set out above, Im not currently intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint.
I invite both parties to respond with anything further that they wish for me to consider. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7313177