K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  provided them  with poor service 
when Mrs P claimed on their motor  insurance policy after the theft of Mr Ps car.
background
Mr Ps car was stolen  whilst he and Mrs P were away  on holiday. Mr P reported it to UKI 
straight away. They returned to the UK on 11 September 2018, and one of UKIs advisors 
took all the details of the theft from Mr P. Mr P asked what  would happen if he were to buy a 
new car and the stolen  one was then recovered.  The advisor said Mr P might  find he owned 
two cars if UKI at that point hadnt paid him the total loss settlement for the stolen car. He 
also said Mr P should wait until UKIs engineer  had spoken to him.
Mr P spoke to the engineer on 14 September 2018 and accepted the sum he proposed for 
the stolen car. He spoke to two other advisors on the same  day and asked about adding  
another car to the policy. Later, in carrying out its usual checks, UKI found  that there was a 
marker against the stolen car showing that finance  was owed on it. Mr P said that was 
wrong, as hed bought the car with cash.  In fact the marker had been added  in error, but it 
took some  time to get it removed. UKI said it couldnt pay Mr P until that was done.
In the meantime, on 21 September 2018  UKI received the theft pack  it had sent to Mr P 
asking him for documents,  including Mr and Mrs Ps driving licences. An advisor  told Mr P all 
was in order on 25 September 2018. Mr P bought another car two days later. On 28 
September 2018 the stolen car was found and UKI decided  it was repairable. Mr P was then 
told that UKI still required driving licence codes from him and that the finance marker was 
still in place. So UKI hadnt  sent him a payment and wasnt now prepared to do so.
Mr P didnt want the stolen car back, so as a gesture of goodwill, UKI offered to try to sell it 
to one of its agents.  It was able to do so, but for less than it had offered Mr P originally. He 
accepted the offer but later told UKI he wasnt happy with it. He said UKI had caused  the 
delays that led to him not being  paid the original  sum, so it should honour it.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ps complaint. She said that by 21 September 2018 
Mr P had returned the theft pack and had provided evidence that there was no issue  with 
finance. He was told that payment would  be made  and was asked for his bank details four 
days later.  He was told to complete the V5 registration document  to show he was no longer 
the cars  registered  keeper on 25 September 2018. So she thought it was reasonable for him 
to expect a payment imminently. She didnt think it was Mr Ps fault that he hadnt  sent UKI 
the driving licence  codes.  She said UKI had accepted that the wording  of the request wasnt 
clear. The investigator thought UKI should pay Mr P the original sum it had offered him.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI relies on the fact that Mr P was told at the start he would own the stolen car if it was 
found before  UKI had paid for its loss. In those circumstances, the policy  allows UKI to 
decide how to settle the claim.  Insurers normally dont pay a total loss settlement sum when 
Ref: DRN71756382its clear that a car is repairable, as in this case. So I think  UKI had the right to say it wasnt  
going to deal with the claim  in the way Mr P still wanted it to do. What  I have  to decide is 
whether it was fair and reasonable for UKI to do that given the facts in this particular case.
Mr P bought the stolen car from a dealership garage.  The dealerships finance company had 
financed an earlier purchase. It was able to confirm that the finance  marker related to a 
previous number plate for the car and a different  consumer. UKIs notes show  that by 
22 September 2018 the dealerships finance company had confirmed to UKI that it had no 
financial interest in the vehicle.  The notes  show that Mr P was informed of that on 
25 September 2018. He wasnt told there  was an issue  with the driving licence  codes. UKIs  
notes say he was told the total loss team would now arrange  to issue the payment.
Mr P wasnt  told at that point to wait until hed received the payment before he bought a new 
car. In fact, according to the notes, UKI told him to call again  once he had the new car to add 
it to the policy. So I can see why Mr P thought there was no reason not to go ahead  and buy 
the new car on 27 September 2018. 
On that date, he was told that the total loss marker still hadnt been  removed. And the next 
day he was told that UKI needed the driving licence codes from him. Mr P wasnt happy  that 
he was being  told different  things, but I dont  think he had any reason to think  the payment 
wasnt going to be made.  He didnt find out the car had been recovered until the evening  of 
28 September 2018 when  he got home and opened the letter from the police.
UKI says it uses a particular company to check that there are no markers against particular 
cars. But I think it would  have been  reasonable in this case  for UKI to have acted differently. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for it to accept the direct written assurances  from the 
dealership and its finance company that it had made an error in adding  the marker  - and that 
it had no financial interest in the car. 
The other reason  for the delay in payment was caused by UKI realising that it didnt have the 
driving licence  codes it needed.  UKI accepts that the wording in the theft pack wasnt clear. 
Mr P returned the pack with the driving licences because his understanding was that UKI 
required them. He didnt  realise he should  also provide the codes. And he returned the pack 
in good time,  so UKI had it by 21 September 2018. I dont think  it was Mr Ps fault that UKI 
didnt realise the codes  were missing until a week later. 
UKI had assured Mr P on 25 September 2018  that it was about to pay him the agreed sum 
for the stolen car. I think it was reasonable for him to rely on that. Had UKI accepted  the 
assurances from the finance company  and checked  for the codes earlier,  I think  its very 
likely that Mr P would  have been paid before he found out that the stolen car was recovered. 
I appreciate that UKI could have insisted  that the stolen  car was repaired and returned to 
Mr P. I think it tried to make the best of a bad situation for him by selling the car, which it 
wasnt obliged to do. But Mr P was still left out of pocket. 
I think UKIs advisors had various chances  to inform Mr P during their conversations  with him 
on 24 September 2018 and on the following day that he should not buy another  car until the 
payment had been made for the stolen  car. Even when  he raised the issue of insuring a new 
car, it didnt  prompt the advisor to say anything  about it. In the light of that, I dont think  its 
reasonable for UKI to rely on what was said to Mr P on the day he reported  the claim.
Ref: DRN71756383In my opinion, it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs P the difference 
between the original offer it made  for the car (£15,310) and the sum it actually  paid for it 
(£13,,593). I think  it should  also add interest  to the £1,717 due.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr and Mrs P £1,717 - the difference between the sum initially offered for the 
stolen car and the sum paid for it
Add interest to the £1.717 due, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the 
first payment to the date of settlement
If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, to reclaim the tax if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175638