K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Ms B payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Ms Bs comments.  However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
There is evidence in the application form that the PPI was presented as a choice to Ms B, 
and that she signed to apply for PPI. She has told us that:
If [the adviser] mentioned PPI, then I switched off. Because I did not want ever more 
expense that I was already burdened with. I did not enthuse or ask questions. I was 
silent and not listening. I signed  as requested. But did not realise I was signing up for 
PPI.
But this doesnt  show that the adviser didnt make  it clear that she had a choice about the 
PPI, even if she may not have been listening to him. 
The adviser, who was acting on behalf of Bradford  & Bingley,  recommended  the PPI to 
Ms B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Being  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Ms B received any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when she would need to fall back other 
means of paying  the mortgage  (such  as renting out her property, which Ms B says would 
have been an option.)   This all would have put Ms B in a more  secure  position,  if she 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. So I think the PPI would 
have been potentially useful.
Bradford & Bingley  probably could have explained the costs and benefits of the policy better 
than it did. But even  if it had, I think Ms B would have still bought it.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Ms B would have  been  affected  by any of these. Its likely she was eligible for 
the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly,  so she could  cancel it at any time without 
further cost if her situation changed.
Ref: DRN77451862my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7745186