K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Cambria  Automobiles (South East) Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he arranged financing to buy a car in 2008. 
background
The PPI was a single  premium policy providing  disability  and unemployment cover  as well as 
life and critical illness cover. The premium  was paid upfront but didnt attract interest.  
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed and so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ws main point is that he wasnt aware the PPI had been added. He says if hed known 
about it, hed have tried to claim on it when he lost his job. 
Not only did Cambria have to get Mr Ws agreement before adding the PPI, it should also 
have made  it clear that he had a choice as to whether to take it. I cant  say for sure what  
happened at the time of the sale but the information Ive seen suggests the optional  nature 
of the PPI was set out to Mr W.
I say that because Ive seen  a copy of a separate application form headed  Creditcare  the 
name given  to the PPI product Cambria was selling. The form summarised some  of the 
benefits included  in the PPI and asked Mr W to tick for the level of cover  he wanted. The 
form shows a tick next to Creditcare 1  Life, Accident and Sickness, Unemployment  and 
Carer Cover. The form asked Mr W to sign this document  if you wish to take the insurance 
as indicated above. Mr W signed  the document. 
So I think if Mr W hadnt wanted the PPI he could have decided  not to tick the relevant  box 
on the agreement  or not sign to agree to the cover selected. I realise Mr W suggests the tick 
was made  after hed signed the form but thats a serious allegation which  I dont thinks  
supported by the evidence.
Overall, Im not persuaded to uphold Mr Ws complaint on this point as I think on balance  he 
decided to take out the PPI knowing he had a choice in doing  so. I can understand if he 
doesnt remember that now. 
Cambria says it advised Mr W to take out the PPI, so it should have checked if it was right 
for him given his circumstances  at the time.  I dont  know what  checks  it made, but I believe 
the PPI was right for him in any case. I realise  Mr W doesnt believe this makes  any 
difference to the complaint hes made  but, for the sake of completeness, I note:
Ref: DRN77859692Mr W was eligible  for the policy and doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of 
the limitations or exclusions  on the cover. 
Mr W ought to have  been aware  of the total cost of the policy as it was set out on the 
application form he signed. I see no reason to believe that it was unaffordable  for 
him. 
If the PPI was cancelled before the end of the term of the agreement its unlikely 
Mr W would  have got back  as much of his premium as he might have expected. For 
example, if Mr W had cancelled his policy half way through the term, he would have 
received less than half of his premium back.  But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest  he 
intended to repay the finance early.  So I dont think that feature of the PPI made it 
unsuitable for Mr W at that time. 
Mr W was entitled  to some sick/redundancy pay from his employer and also had 
some savings  he could  have  used for a time if he wasnt  working. But the PPI 
benefits would have paid out in addition to those  provisions  and potentially  for up to 
12 months per disability or unemployment  claim. So I think  the PPI provided Mr W 
with useful additional protection.   
Its possible the information Cambria gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But I think Mr W chose to take out the PPI and so appears  to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the PPI was 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  On balance I think he would still have taken out the 
PPI in his circumstances.
Overall, I dont  think Mr Ws lost out because of how Cambria  sold him the PPI. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785969