K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  Sunny provided to Mrs P between 
June 2014 and June 2015. The facility allowed Mrs P to borrow  up to £500 with a minimum 
monthly repayment of £170.37 for five months  should she drawdown the maximum amount. 
Mrs P initially borrowed  £500  and continued  to make further drawdowns before previous 
drawdowns were repaid.  As a result her required monthly payment increased. In 
September 2014 Sunny appears to have increased  Mrs Ps credit  limit to £750. Mrs P repaid 
the facility in June 2015 after entering  into a repayment arrangement.  Mrs Ps facility 
drawdown history is as follows:
Drawdown 
numberDate of 
drawdownDrawdown 
amountHighest minimum 
monthly  repayment
Initial capital 17/6/14 £500 £170.37
1. 2/7/14 £122.02 £198.27
2. 12/8/14 £68.81 £199.96
3. 6/9/14 £56.62 £198.66
4. 1/10/14 £315.87 £287.37
5. 13/11/14 £90.86 £284.40
Mrs P was unhappy that Sunny had acknowledged the adverse credit rating on her credit 
profile but it continued to lend to her and charged  her significant interest. 
In its final response letter  Sunny  said that it had conducted creditworthiness  checks, 
assessed Mrs Ps ability to afford the repayments  which would fall due under the proposed 
agreement and it considered how Mrs P was managing her other  debts at that time.  Based 
upon these checks  it was considered responsible  to advance credit to Mrs P. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ps complaint  about  the fourth and fifth drawdowns  
from the facility be upheld. She said that it wasnt unfair for Sunny to provide the running 
account credit facility and the first three drawdowns  Mrs P made under it. But the fourth and 
fifth drawdowns shouldnt have been given to Mrs P. The adjudicator  said that Mrs Ps fourth 
drawdown was made within three months of her taking out the facility.  Her balance hadnt  
been cleared and it remained  near or at its credit limit throughout this time. Her overall 
balance wasnt decreasing. The rate at which Mrs P was borrowing suggested that she may 
have been reliant  on this facility and Sunny should  have done  more to understand Mrs Ps 
circumstances. The adjudicator couldnt  see that Sunny had done anything to ascertain 
whether Mrs Ps circumstances had changed  or if she was experiencing financial difficulties  
and Mrs P lost out as a result. 
Ref: DRN74141272Sunny disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that Mrs P had made six drawdowns and 
she needed to use on average 7.43% of her monthly  income to make  the contractual  repayments 
on the facility. It used Mrs Ps income and expenditure and information from the credit reference 
agencies to ensure  the amount it agreed to lend could be paid without undue  difficulties over the 
tem of the loan.  When Mrs P was late with her repayments, Sunny sent her emails  asking her to 
contact it and phone her. But it had no record of Mrs P contacting it about her situation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mrs P the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs P could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ref: DRN74141273Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
I would have expected Sunny to make  proportionate  checks  when assessing or increasing 
the maximum credit limit on the facility. Id also have expected Sunny to have monitored 
Mrs Ps repayment record and taken appropriate action where there  were  signs  of possible 
difficulties in line with CONC 6.7.2.
Sunny said that it checked whether the amount of credit applied  for was affordable assuming 
Mrs P had made a drawdown of the full amount of credit at one time.  It assessed the 
requested amount as a proportion of Mrs Ps declared income and applied this along with 
other business rules  to determine whether the amount of credit  she had applied for was 
affordable. From October  2014  it also used credit reference agency  data.  It also checked 
that there  were no detrimental factors evident  on Mrs Ps credit file. 
Sunny said that it asked  Mrs P for information  about  her income when she applied  for her 
running credit facility. Sunny recorded  a figure  of £3,000 for Mrs Ps monthly income. Ive 
looked at Sunnys Loan Datasheet and there appears to be no information about Mrs Ps 
expenditure. Sunnys reliance on Mrs Ps income to assess affordability appears to be in line 
with its telling us that it ensures the customers income allowed them to make  the 
repayments in a sustainable manner.   
Sunny has provided  us with very little information  about its credit checks. It said there was 
no evidence of bankruptcy,  individual voluntary  arrangements or debt management plans. 
Weve not received a credit report from Mrs P so I cant say there was any information Id 
seen on her credit report that I think should have caused additional concerns to Sunny.
I note that Mrs Ps running  account credit  facility had a maximum credit limit of £500.  If this 
amount was withdrawn, the credit  agreement said it was to be repaid by five monthly  
payments of around  £170. Mrs P asked for £500 as her first loan.  I appreciate that Sunny 
had asked Mrs P for her monthly income.  But as Mrs P was committed to repaying  the loan 
over five months, I dont  think it was reasonable for Sunny  to rely on Mrs Ps income 
information. I think it would have been proportionate for it to have gathered information about  
Mrs Ps expenses  when she first applied to it for credit. I dont know  what she might  have 
told it at that point. But I dont think a monthly  repayment amount on her credit facility of 
around £170 was so large that its obvious it wouldve caused Mrs P financial difficulty. Given  
this was her first loan with the lender and the lack of information I have  from Mrs P, in this 
case I dont find Sunny irresponsible to have  agreed to this facility in the first instance. 
Sunny needed  to monitor how Mrs P was using this facility. Mrs P made repayments but 
then borrowed up to her limit again shortly afterwards. This pattern of making payments then 
borrowing again suggests to me that Mrs P was in a position where she needed to borrow to 
meet the shortfall caused in making  those  repayments. I think this should  have caused 
Sunny some  concerns. 
After almost four months into what was initially a five month  agreement  it appears that Sunny 
may have  increased  the maximum credit limit on Mrs Ps facility  to £750. Around  the same  
time Mrs P borrowed £315.87 which meant that she had again borrowed up to her credit 
limit. Sunny said that the minimum monthly  repayment was £287.37 at this point which  was 
to be repaid each  month for five months. This would mean Mrs P would be committing  to 
repaying substantially  higher  repayments than previously for the following five months. 
Ref: DRN74141274If there was an increased credit limit Id have  expected Sunny to have checked 
Mrs Ps regular  monthly expenditure. It doesnt  seem to have done this. But I dont think that 
matters here as I think Sunny should  have  realised from Mrs Ps pattern of borrowing that 
she was likely to be facing  problems  managing  her money.
By this time I think Sunny should have been  concerned that Mrs P had made  four repayments 
and was borrowing  up to her limit again  shortly afterwards. Our adjudicator said that the rate at 
which Mrs P was borrowing suggested  that she may have been reliant on this facility and 
Sunny should  have  done more to understand Mrs Ps circumstances. I agree with this. This 
was the fourth time Mrs P had taken out an exact  amount to bring her account back  up to its 
limit having  made a repayment. And this time shed done this just five days  after having made 
a repayment.  At this point I think Sunny ought to have realised that Mrs P wasnt  likely to be 
able to meet  her repayments for this facility in a sustainable manner. So I think  Sunny was 
irresponsible to have  agreed further  credit for Mrs P from and including the fourth drawdown 
on her credit  facility on 1 October 2014  and it should  take the steps set out below. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this decision 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to:-
1.Refund all interest and charges Mrs P paid on capital  drawn  down through her credit 
facility from and including 1 October  2014;  and
2.Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement; and
3.Remove any adverse  information about the credit facility  from Mrs Ps credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7414127