K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complain  that Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  mis-sold 
them a waiver of premium (WOP) benefit on their Decreasing Term Assurance with Critical 
Illness insurance policy. 
background
In August  and September 2001 Mr and Mrs T met with L&G to discuss  their mortgage  
borrowing and the cover needed to protect themselves. L&G recommended  they take out a 
Decreasing Term Assurance  with Critical Illness policy. They  were  sold a WOP cover  and 
Childrens Cover with this. The WOP cover  wouldve paid their monthly policy  premiums had 
they been off work sick for more than 6 months. It wouldve paid out until they returned to 
work or the policy ended.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint points and felt the WOP cover had not 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree  with her opinion so the complaint has been passed  
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs T have  provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint, so I dont doubt the 
strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered  everything  they have said.  However,  it may be 
helpful to explain  that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point thats  been  
made  its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So, while  Id like to 
reassure them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said throughout this 
complaint, my final findings  will be expressed in considerably less detail.
Mr and Mrs T summarised  their complaint for me to say that they believe they were  mis-sold 
the WOP cover because  the benefit  wasnt explained to them;  they didnt need it; and there 
is no evidence that L&G carried  out a fact find so there is no proof L&G fully considered their 
circumstances at the time. They also say they believe they were over charged as they 
benefit costed  them more than they were originally quoted.
I wasnt present at the meetings, so I dont know exactly what was or wasnt discussed at the 
time. But Ive thought  about what Mr and Mrs T told us and Ive also looked at the evidence  
available from the time,  to come to a decision on what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of a personal illustration documents which was created on 7 August 2001  
which sets out Mr and Mrs Ts initial cover choices. This clearly includes a waiver  of 
premium benefit. 
Ive also seen a copy of an application  form which was signed  by Mr and Mrs T on 
11 September 2001. This shows that the WOP  cover  was selected for both applicants.   
Further down there is also a separate section called Waiver of Payment Benefit  and above  
it states this section is only to be completed  if the applicants have chosen this. This section 
Ref: DRN72169062of the form asks questions about Mr and Mrs Ts suitability for this benefit and has been 
completed. 
Even though  I think its likely that this application form was filled out by the L&G advisor, this 
suggests the cover was discussed, and Mr and Mrs T were asked questions about  their 
circumstances relevant to the cover. They then signed the form agreeing to its contents. And 
I think they wouldve  read through the form and asked questions if they werent sure about 
anything before signing it.  So overall, I think they knew  about the policy  and that they had a 
choice about whether  to accept it.
Mr and Mrs T were  also sent a letter on 24 September 2001 (before their mortgage  
commenced) advising  them  that their application  for cover had been accepted. This letter 
sets out the cost of the total policy. Mr and Mrs T say that the cost of the policy  here is 
different to the information on the illustration and the application form, so they think  they 
were overcharged  for the WOP cover. They say they werent given these documents 
beforehand, so they didnt  know the cost was different  to the amount  originally  quoted. L&G 
say that they wouldve been given the illustration  documents to take home after from the 
meeting. 
I cant say whether Mr and Mrs T had the initial cost with them  to compare, but they 
responded to this letter and completed  and signed  the direct  debit  mandate to allow L&G to 
debit the premiums stated  in this letter from their account. So, Im satisfied that they agreed  
to the cover  on the terms set out in this letter. 
Mr and Mrs T say the WOP cover  wasnt suitable for them. But I havent seen any evidence 
that they had enough  means to keep up their repayments had they been unable  to work for 
more than six months. Mr and Mrs T say they couldve asked family and friends to help them 
pay the premiums or couldve cut back on their monthly expenses. And while  I think  this may 
have been a solution for some time, I dont think this wouldve been  a good long-term 
solution. I say this because help from others cant always be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change over time.  And having this benefit in place meant  they didnt 
have to sacrifice their other monthly  commitments  to keep up their life cover repayments  if 
one, or both, were  too sick to work for more than six months. So I havent seen anything  
which suggests the cover wasnt  suitable  for them or any other reasons that the policy may 
have been mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7216906