K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages that Mr and Ms W hold with 
Bank of Scotland plc under its trading name of Birmingham Midshires (BM). Theyre 
unhappy with how BM has dealt with them since they fell into arrears due to financial 
difficulties arising from their divorce.  
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Other  reasons 
I have left out a lot of the detail are, firstly, to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumers 
when my decision is published, and secondly,  because many of the issues  Mr and Ms W 
have raised lie outside the remit of the Financial  Ombudsman Service..
Briefly, Mr and Mrs W have two BTL mortgages with BM, taken out on the advice and 
recommendation of a third party broker Ill refer to here as S. In April 2018, the rate deals in 
force up that point  came to end, and the accounts went onto a variable rate set at the Bank  
of England base  rate plus 4.34%.
.
A few months later, Mr and Ms W contacted  BM asking for help. Theyd fallen into financial 
hardship following  their divorce,  and were in arrears on the mortgages. They  asked if they 
could go onto a lower rate, but BM said no because  of the arrears. They also asked for a 
payment holiday  but theres no provision for that in the mortgage contracts. 
The arrears  worsened  and BM started  its recoveries procedure; that action was paused 
temporarily to allow then an opportunity to sell. When that didnt  happen, BM resumed 
recoveries but paused it again  when  Mr and Ms W complained about how they were  being 
treated. BMs final response was issued in November 2018  and covered the following points, 
which Ive summarised:
the arrears correspondence  and follow-up  action to recover  the overdue payments;
the refusal to consider options such as payment holidays, reducing  the interest rates and 
capitalising arrears;
appointing  Law of Property Act Receivers  without  trying to reach an agreement  first.
BM declined Mr and Ms Ws request for a copy of its arrears and possessions policy 
document and a lower rate back-dated to April 2018, when their previous rate had ended 
and before they fell into arrears.
When Mr and Ms W referred their complaint to us, the adjudicator who looked at it wasnt 
persuaded BM had done  anything wrong. Mr and Ms W want  to continue with their 
complaint, so its come to me to review and determine.
Ref: DRN75753342my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Im aware Mr and Ms W have complained about 
how the adjudicator  handled their complaint. The adjudicators manager  has dealt with that 
as a separate matter, and if Mr and Ms W wish to pursue that further  with the Independent  
Assessor, theyve  been  advised how they can do that. My focus here is solely on the 
underlying dispute between them and BM.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts or the regulator. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ill begin with the question  of BM not reminding Mr and Ms W their deal was ending  and 
inviting them ask for a new one. A useful starting  point here is that these were BTL 
mortgages rather than residential ones. Theyre not regulated mortgages, but ones where  all 
parties (not just the bank) are deemed  to be acting commercially. That being  so, its 
reasonable to conclude  that it was incumbent on Mrs and Mr W to remember when any rate 
deal was due to end, and to arrange a new rate. 
Lenders arent obliged  to prompt BTL borrowers  when thats about to happen.  Mr W says 
thats a cop-out; without wishing to sound  unkind, managing  their own commercial  venture, 
including the cost of financing it, is Mr and Ms Ws responsibility, not BMs. 
Turning to what happened once the mortgages fell into arrears, its important to remember  
that BM is a business  that lends money  in the reasonable expectation that it will be repaid. 
When assessing how to get its money back, one of its concerns is which of the possible 
courses of action available to it is most  likely to result in the money it has lent being repaid. 
Thats exercising commercial judgment,  and for the most part, we wont  usually interfere  with 
the way a business does  that.
The three main options that Mr and Ms W think BM should have considered offering are a 
payment holiday,  a lower rate and capitalisation.  Ill address  each in turn. Payment holidays 
arent universal, and theyre not a forbearance  option for customers  in arrears. If theyre a 
feature of a mortgage, theyll be incorporated into the mortgage contract and be subject to 
conditions. BM doesnt offer payment  holidays on its BTL mortgages, so the right to request 
one isnt in the contract.  In that context,  Id be slow to conclude that BM acted unfairly  in not 
offering one to Mr and Ms W.
As far as reducing the interest rate is concerned, no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; 
lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances  in all cases. Most lenders, 
Ref: DRN75753343when asked to provide  a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the arrears 
to be cleared in full and then the mortgage  kept up to date and arrears-free for a minimum 
period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period  before considering a new rate deal. 
The situation  is much  the same  with capitalisation.  Lenders generally wish to see evidence 
that the problems that led to arrears forming in the first place have now gone away and the 
consumers situation  has stabilised. Its not at all unusual  for a lender to require borrowers to 
show they can meet the regular payment in full and for up to a year before it will consider 
capitalising arrears. Thats what BM does,  and Im not minded to interfere  with or otherwise 
second- guess the business commercial  judgement. 
Ive next considered if it was fair of BM to begin recovery  action. Its a common 
misconception that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders to provide forbearance. 
What they actually require lenders to do is consider each set of individual circumstances 
fairly to decide if forbearance should be provided;  the two things arent  the same. In any 
event, these are not regulated mortgages.  It must  also be remembered that one of the 
fundamental principles  underpinning  the mortgage  contract is that a lender has the right to 
enforce its security to recover  money owed to it. It would be entirely  inequitable and 
inappropriate for me to remove that right from BM in a decision on Mr and Ms Ws complaint,  
regardless of their situation. 
Thats not to say BTL lenders dont have  to treat their borrowers fairly; but it does mean the 
test of fairness is less stringent, bearing in mind the borrowers own home  isnt at risk. BM 
was reasonably entitled to start its recovery process after the mortgage  arrears reached a 
certain threshold. It acted fairly in putting the action on hold to try and help Mr and Ms W sell 
the properties, and did so again when they complained to us. Its worth observing  too that at 
the point the complaint was referred  to us, BM hadnt  appointed Law of Property  Act 
Receivers. It has the right to do so, however, and if did subsequently, then Mr and Ms W 
would be able to complain afresh if they thought it had done  so unfairly.
Mr W has told us recently  that BM has resumed recovery action recently after we told it the 
complaint was closed  (when it wasnt). I cant comment  in detail on something new that has 
happened since the complaint was referred  to us. But I can say in general terms that whilst 
lenders generally  do hold recovery  action  whilst  we look at a complaint, they dont have to 
and we cant force them  to.
We also cant tell consumers what to do, but here,  I think it would be in Mr and Ms Ws best 
interests to engage proactively with BM without  recrimination over whats  gone before. But I 
think any effort on Mr and Ms Ws part to negotiate  a settlement to obviate  the need  for 
possession action would be helped by them accepting that a new interest rate, payment 
holiday or capitalisation of arrears  arent  things to which they are entitled  (unless  a court  
specifically ordered  it in their case)  or BM is required by regulation  or fair treatment to 
provide. 
Ref: DRN75753344I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the intensity  with which Mr and Ms W brought  
the complaint.  They  see error or wrong-doing  in almost everything BM has done  (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back from the fine detail and instead focussing on the broader  picture.  Thats 
what Ive done.
Mr and Ms W dont  have  to accept my conclusions,  and if they dont, then neither they nor 
BM will be bound by my final decision.  Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Ms Ws right to take legal action against BM over the subject  matter  of 
this complaint wont have  been prejudiced  by our consideration of their complaint. 
Mr and Ms W wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own.  If BM did 
go to possession proceedings,  Mr and Ms W  could, if they wished, ask the court  to consider 
all of the arguments that have been  presented here as part of their defence against the 
possession action. The court will then be able, if it so chooses, to take those arguments into 
account when  deciding whether a fair outcome  to the legal proceedings is that BM should be 
granted possession.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which  
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7575334