K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with a new car supplied to him by Lex Autolease  Ltd (Lex Autolease)  
under a hire agreement. 
background 
Mr C hired a new car in December 2016. Since then,  there  have been a number of issues 
with it and Mr C would  like to return it to Lex Autolease. Mr Cs wife seems  to have driven 
the complaint  forward somewhat but for ease  of reference, and because Mr C is the 
contracting party with Lex Autolease, Ill be referring  to Mr C throughout my decision.
Mr C says the service light came on after the car had travelled 500 miles from the time he 
took possession  of it. Mr C also says the oil filter was changed at that point and had to be 
changed again shortly afterwards. 
Mr Cs car was then taken into a garage on 25 August 2017 as the service light had come  on 
again. The job sheet  notes that the car had already been in to the dealership twice 
previously for an oil and filter change. The dealership then replaced  the oil and the filter 
again. 
The car was taken into the dealership  for further work over the next couple of months. 
According to the job sheets, the Ad-Blu was topped up on 9 September  2017 and the drive 
shaft was replaced  on 24 October 2017  as it had collapsed. And the cars  service light had 
come on again so the dealership carried out regeneration on the diesel  particulate  filter 
(DPF). The car at this point in time had travelled 10,128 miles. 
Mr C by this time was increasingly concerned  about the car so he complained  to Lex 
Autolease. They instructed  a third party engineer to look at it. The engineer  road-tested the 
car for 343 miles reaching speeds  of up to 70mph traveling on motorway  roads and in town 
conditions and said there was no evidence of any loss of power or engine  running concerns 
and no evidence of.warning lights illuminated or messages displayed  on the instrument 
cluster. The engineer concluded  that the car had no apparent fault and noted that the car 
required extended journeys on at least a weekly basis on motorway or dual carriageway 
roads to aid the regeneration of the DPF. 
So Lex Autolease didnt feel there  was anything now wrong with the car and didnt uphold  
Mr Cs complaint. They felt that Mr Cs driving  style was the likely cause of the DPF issues. 
Since then however, Mr C says hes experienced further issues, some  of which Ill 
summarise below: 
 3 January 2018  DPF light on so took for a 50 minute drive until the green 
regeneration light came on
 5 January 2018  DPF light on again
 7 January 2018  car went into limp mode
 10 January 2018  dealership  carried out a forced regeneration on the car to clear 
the DPF
 16 January 2018  car returned  with new DPF filter replaced under warranty
 23 January 2018  engine transmission light on
 17 March 2018  engine management  light on. A third party inspector noted there 
was an issue with the DPF and Ad-Blue injector value  car mileage 13,803
Ref: DRN79240422 20 March 2018  wiring defect to Ad-Blue injector found and replaced under warranty
 26 March 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully
 17 May 2018  DPF light on  regenerated  successfully
 15 June 2018  diesel exhaust fluid warning light on. New filter fitted
 7 July 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully
 18 August 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully
           23  August 2018  oil filter change due to service light on  changed for the sixth time
 26 August 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully although  light came on 
after car was driven on motorway  all weekend  
 5 September  2018  DPF light and service  light on  regenerated successfully 
 10 September 2018  DPF light and service light on  regenerated successfully and 
oil filter change
 7 October 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully
 20 October 2018  DPF light on  regenerated successfully
 3 November 2018  warning light for diesel exhaust fluid on. Filter changed 
 15 November 2018   internal fault with Nox Sensor   replaced. Fault with off side 
front door lock actuator/latch  assembly  replaced. New antiroll bar droplink fitted 
 18 January 2019  oil and filter change 
           
Mr C also sent in several photographs of dashboard messages, some of which Ill outline 
below along with the mileage at the time of the photographs:
 exhaust filter nearly full  12,195, 12,268, 17,504, 18,178,  19,028, 19,328, 19,533,  
19,773, 20,703
 exhaust filter full  12,303
 exhaust filter self-cleaning required  17,643, 17,809, 18,034,  19,697
Our investigator looked into the case.  And because of all the things which  had gone  wrong  
she didnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the time it was supplied. She thought it 
fair that Mr C could reject it and get some  compensation.
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It accepts the driveshaft failed  prematurely but says Mr Cs 
driving style is not sufficient for the car to naturally  regenerate the DPF which  is causing  the 
more recent  problems. Lex Autolease highlighted a session file that was downloaded from 
the car on 11 September 2018  to back their opinion up. The file provided technical 
information about the way the car was being driven such  as the average length of journeys 
and vehicle speeds. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 18 April 2019. My provisional findings  said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to consider the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. 
The finance  agreement is a regulated consumer hire agreement. Lex Autolease  is 
the supplier of goods under this agreement and so responsible for a complaint  about 
their quality. 
Ref: DRN79240423The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is of particular  relevance  to this complaint.  It 
says that under a contract to supply goods, there  is an implied term that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory. It also says the quality of goods is deemed to be 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all other  
relevant circumstances. So in respect  of a car, the other relevant circumstances 
would include things  like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars 
history. 
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability. And under the CRA,  if goods  arent  of satisfactory  
quality, they do not conform  to the contract which will then mean that certain 
remedies will be available to the consumer. 
So when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in Mr Cs case, Ive thought  about 
whether the car supplied by Lex Autolease was of satisfactory quality. 
Lex Autolease supplied Mr C with a brand new car with a cash  value of around 
£30,000 and he agreed to pay monthly rentals  of £347.06. With this in mind, I think  a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a used  car. I 
also think a reasonable person would expect to be able to use the car, free from 
defects, for a significant period of time.  
I note that Lex Autolease  feels that Mr C is in effect  causing the issues which are 
leading to the frequent dashboard warnings about the exhaust filter, by not driving 
the car in the way it should  be driven. Ill come  to this shortly.  But first I think its 
important to point  out that the car had a significant separate problem with it, namely  
that the driveshaft collapsed and had to be replaced less than a year after Mr C 
started hiring  it. 
Lex Autolease doesnt  agree that the driveshaft was poorly manufactured but does  
accept that it failed prematurely. The driveshaft on a car is a significant mechanical 
component and for this to fail so soon after Mr C took possession of the car calls into 
serious question  whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality. Im not persuaded on the 
balance of probabilities that the driveshaft collapsed because of wear or tear or 
damage caused by either a third party or Mr C. 
I note also that a wiring  defect was found  in the Ad-Blue injector  shortly  after the 
driveshaft was replaced and when the car had only travelled just over 13,000  miles. I 
find it extremely unlikely that Mr C caused  this and think  on balance that this was a 
problem that was either present or developing at the time the car was supplied  or one 
that occurred  prematurely.
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect this, or indeed  the issue with the 
driveshaft, to occur on a fairly new car that hadnt  covered significant mileage by that 
time. 
On balance, I dont  think the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied - in 
particular that it wasnt  sufficiently durable   although I do of course acknowledge 
that both faults  were  subsequently and it seems satisfactorily repaired. 
Ref: DRN79240424So, in my view, there were significant  issues with the car even before I start to 
consider Lex Autoleases  points about  Mr Cs driving  style causing the more frequent  
problems hes experienced. I will now though  consider  these points. 
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of what happened,  which  Ive summarised above. 
It appears that the DPF light has come on on numerous occasions  since Mr C started  
hiring the car and has continued to do so up to the present time. Although Mr C 
hasnt been able to send  documentary evidence of each occurrence,  he has sent in 
several photographs of dashboard warning messages  hes received about the cars 
exhaust filter. And these warnings cover  the cars mileage from just over 12,000  to 
just less than 20,000  miles. 
I think on the balance  of probabilities Mr Cs account of what  has happened, as 
shown in my timeline above, is likely to be accurate. I find that Mr C has provided a 
very detailed  account of the issues hes experienced which includes specific dates 
and mileage. I wouldnt have expected Mr C to have sent us photographs of every  
time the DPF light has come on, because he wouldve been driving the car on some  
of these occasions. But what Mr C has provided makes me think  his outline  of events 
is correct. 
So Im satisfied theres clearly an issue with the DPF and I think this is whats 
causing the service  light to come on, and ultimately has led to a problem with oil 
dilution which has meant the oil filter has had to be changed on several occasions. 
The issue  I now have to consider is whether this is because of Mr Cs driving  style.
Lex Autolease has sent us a copy of a session  file that was downloaded from Mr Cs 
car on 11 September 2018, by I believe someone  at the dealership.  I think it fair to 
say that Lex Autolease feels  this is compelling  evidence as to why Mr C is causing  
the DPF light to come  on so frequently. In particular, that Mr C isnt doing  whats  
necessary to regenerate the DPF successfully. 
The person  at the dealership who looked at the downloaded  information has 
commented as follows:
looking at the DPF regeneration information  from the session file takenthe 
customers drive  cycle  isnt meeting the requirements needed  for the vehicle to 
complete successful DPF regenerations. The average drive cycle  on the last DPF 
regeneration attempt is as follows: 
 the average drive  cycle completed in this vehicle  is less than 10 mins  (20-30  
mins to complete  a DPF regeneration)
 the average vehicle speed on the last DPF regeneration attempt was 21 MPH
 the mileage between DPF regenerations was 776 miles (this figure  being  high 
indicates a lot of interrupted  regeneration)
 the drive dynamics are between 30nm-40nm (below  50nm engine  torque is 
extremely light load)
 the average engine speed  when the vehicle  is trying  to complete a DPF 
regeneration is 1200 > 1400 RPM (this is low, we would expect to see 1600 > 
1800 RPM to generate the heat needed  for the DPF to complete a successful 
regeneration)
 the DPF regeneration was triggered  due to soot load
Ref: DRN79240425 the average temperature at the post DPF temperature  sensor  is less than 200 
degrees (temps below 200 indicate  no passive regeneration, leading  to 
shorter intervals and higher oil dilution)
 there has been >30 interrupted DPF regenerations on the last drive cycle 
(confirming poor drive cycle).
Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of the above.  However, I dont think  this is 
conclusive enough to persuade me that Mr C is causing the DPF light to come  on so 
frequently. The data only shows average journey times and speeds  and doesnt  show 
individual journeys. So for example  it doesnt  show instances of Mr C driving a long 
distance at too slow a speed to regenerate  the DPF, which I would  likely  have  found  
to be more compelling as evidence.  I dont  think the aggregate evidence  of driving 
style means Mr C wasnt driving the car as he needed  to regenerate the DPF. I also 
note that Mr C says that when the regeneration light comes on, he drives  it until the 
green light shows, which  indicates to me that he has done what  is required. 
Mr C has said the car is driven  back and forth to work twice a week  and is used on 
the motorway on other occasions.  Mr C has also mentioned hes had diesel cars for 
most of his life, covered  the same types of journeys and never experienced issues 
with the DPF before.  I find no reason  why Mr C would exaggerate his use of the car, 
and taking into account his very detailed account of events, I accept that Mr C does 
use the car in this way. This seems to be a perfectly common and expected way of 
driving a car. Mr C could  of course in theory  be consistently driving  at too low a 
speed to keep the DPF clean and to successfully fully regenerate  the DPF when 
needed. However, considering his frequent driving  on motorways,  I find this unlikely.  
So, while Ive taken  everything Lex Autolease (and indeed Mr C) has said into 
account, which includes the third party report saying there were no faults with the car, 
Im not persuaded that the problems with the DPF are as a result of Mr Cs driving 
style. It is I think  interesting to note that, from the evidence Ive seen,  there was no 
apparent issues with the DPF reported  for some time after Mr C acquired  the car. I 
think it unlikely therefore that Mr Cs driving style changed all of a sudden to cause  
such frequent issues with the DPF. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think a reasonable person  would  expect the 
level of problems Mr C has had with this car. The car was financed from new,  at not 
insignificant monthly  rental cost.  Ive noticed as well that there have been more 
recent faults found  with the Nox sensor and the door lock actuator. The dealership 
described both of these  faults as manufacturer  defects.  
In this case, Im satisfied  that its more likely than not that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C, and in particular  that it wasnt 
reasonably durable.  So I dont  think Lex Autolease acted fairly and reasonably  in 
supplying a car of that quality to Mr C. I now need  to consider what  is a fair way to 
put things right. 
Ref: DRN79240426I think a fair and proportionate outcome would be for Lex Autolease to allow Mr C to 
reject the car. This means hed return the car to Lex Autolease at no cost to him. I 
acknowledge that repair work has been carried out to remedy at least some  of the 
issues the car has had. However, there are clearly still issues that havent been  fixed.  
I dont think it now fair for Mr C to accept further repairs  as I think his experience  of 
driving what was a brand new car at a not insignificant  cost has been compromised 
rather a lot. And Im not convinced the DPF issue can be fixed  bearing in mind  the 
car has been in and out of garages  on several occasions in an attempt to try to fix 
this issue. 
I also think that Lex Autolease should remove any adverse information  from Mr Cs 
credit file for the hire agreement.
This is broadly in line with what our investigator  recommended, certainly in respect of 
what to do with the car. However, I also currently think that Mr C should  be paid 
further redress. 
Ive spoken to Mr Cs wife to clarify who had use of the car and the general  financial 
arrangements around this. Shes  told me that Mr C pays  for its hire from his own 
bank account.  I have no reason to doubt this. So I do think Mr C has been  caused 
inconvenience by whats happened.  After all, hes paid for a car each month that has 
had significant  problems. 
Ive not seen evidence that Mr C has given  a hire car while his car was being looked 
at and repaired. Equally, its difficult to be absolute on the amount of days  Mr C was 
without the car.
The car had travelled just over 20,000 miles by December 2018,  so its clear Mr C 
has had use of the car. However, Mr C clearly wasnt  able to drive the car on a 
number of occasions and also had to take the car on a number of regeneration 
drives. So I think its fair for Mr C to be compensated for his impaired use and the 
loss of use of the car. Overall, I currently think that a fair and reasonable outcome on 
this particular issue is for Lex Autolease to pay Mr C £500. 
I also intend to direct Lex Autolease to pay Mr C £250 for the inconvenience  hes 
suffered in having to take the car in for repairs and diagnostics so often. 
I also note that Mr C took out a service plan to cover this particular make and model 
of car. Mr Cs wife has confirmed that they paid for this jointly  in cash. Ive seen that 
the cost of this plan was £499.  Mr C has had use of this as the car has been  serviced  
twice at no cost. However,  as I currently intend  to instruct Lex Autolease  to arrange 
to take back the car, Mr C wont have further  use of this plan.  While  its possible Mr C 
can transfer this to another car, theres  no guarantee that he will get a car that would 
be covered by this plan.  
Taking this into account, and noting that Mr C has had use of the plan, I currently 
think a fair solution  will be for Lex Autolease to pay him 25% of this cost,  with interest 
from the date he took this out (which was 23 December 2016) to the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN79240427My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Lex Autolease  Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with no further amount owed by Mr C;
take back the car at no further cost to him;
ensure any adverse information is removed from Mr Cs credit  file in relation to the 
hire agreement;
pay Mr C £125 in respect of the service plan;
add 8% simple yearly interest  on this amount from 23 December 2016 to the date of 
settlement; 
pay Mr C £500 for Mr Cs impaired use of the car and his loss of use of it; and
pay Mr C £250 compensation to reflect  the overall distress and inconvenience 
caused by the faulty goods.
I asked the parties  for their comments on my provisional decision.
Mr C replied saying there  were still problems with the car but didnt directly  comment on 
whether he agreed  with my provisional  findings.  Lex Autolease replied  and said, in summary, 
that:
there was no evidence of the initial faults  being  there at the point of supply
the manufacturer of the car and their agents inspected the car and found no evidence 
of a fault
the data recorded by the car shows that on average Mr Cs driving style isnt 
compatible with this type of vehicle
the service plan doesnt form part of the finance agreement  so Mr C should approach  
the provider for a rebate  if it can no longer be used
if I still feel that rejection of the car is warranted, they will check whether theres been 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear and see if the car has covered excess 
mileage
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Lex Autoleases comments. However,  I havent seen enough  to make me 
depart from my provisional findings.  
Lex Autolease has highlighted that Mr Cs car had covered 13,000 miles before the initial 
issues were found. I take this to mean  the problems with the driveshaft and the wiring defect 
in the Ad-Blue injector. I agree with Lex Autolease that 13,000 miles is a not insignificant 
distance. However, one of the considerations of whether  a car is of satisfactory quality, as 
set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015, is durability. Put simply, Id need  to be satisfied 
that Mr C either caused these issues to happen or that issues like these were  generally to be 
expected to a car with such mileage. I dont however agree  with either scenario. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  the driveshaft is a significant mechanical 
component. Id find it difficult to say that this could  be expected to fail after such a relatively 
short period  of time since the point of supply. And I find it very unlikely this happened  
because of wear and tear or because of damage  caused by Mr C.
Ref: DRN79240428I note that both the driveshaft and the Ad-Blue injector were repaired under warranty. But 
that doesnt mean the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  And, on balance, 
I think it wasnt of satisfactory quality although,  as I mentioned in my provisional decision, I 
realise that both faults were corrected. 
Lex Autolease also says that no-one has found  a fault with the DPF. And that without 
evidence of that fault, they cant accept the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. I 
note Lex Autolease feels that the parties  who actually inspected the car are far more 
qualified than I to make a determination on this. I dont doubt the qualifications or credentials 
of those parties. But theres something  not right with the car and there  hasnt been  for some 
time. Mr C has given  me a very clear outline  of events and has sent me evidence  of the 
dashboard warning  messages that have been displayed very frequently  throughout. So Im 
satisfied there is an issue with the car. The key is whether or not Mr C is causing  this by not 
driving it in the way it needs to be driven.
Lex Autolease has referred  to the data recorded  by the car. I accept Lex Autolease feels this 
shows that Mr Cs driving  style is causing this. And Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy  of 
the data. However,  I still dont agree  this is persuasive enough for me to rule out that 
something else that hasnt  been  identified is causing  the problems with the car. The data 
doesnt show instances of Mr C driving a long distance at too slow a speed to regenerate  the 
DPF. Mr C has said he drives the car until the green  regeneration light shows  and on 
balance I think this is what happens.  And Mr C has told me that he travels  up and down 
motorways fairly frequently, which Im happy to accept, which would  call into question that 
his driving style is to blame. 
Overall, Ive not seen  enough to make me reach a different decision on Mr Cs complaint 
following my provisional decision.  Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the car 
supplied to Mr C wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied,  for the reasons  given  in 
this decision and my provisional  decision.  
Lex Autolease doesnt  agree that Mr C should be compensated  for any loss of use of his 
service plan. I agree that the service  plan didnt form part of the finance agreement.  
However, I am able to look at consequential  losses that flow directly from the breach of 
contract, which in this case  is the car not being  of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied. 
Mr C bought a plan that he isnt able to use. I dont think it reasonable  that Mr C has paid for 
something he didnt  get full use of because of the breach of contract.  So I think  it fair and 
reasonable that I make an award  for this. And because Mr C has paid for something he 
hasnt had full use of, I think he has been partly  deprived of the use of that money. 
Therefore, I will be awarding interest  to that particular sum. 
Finally, I make no comment  on how Lex Autolease  intends to deal with the car once its 
given back to them. If Mr C subsequently feels that Lex Autolease  hasnt dealt with this fairly, 
he would  need  to raise a new complaint with them.  
Ref: DRN79240429my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lex Autolease Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with no further amount owed by Mr C;
take back the car at no further cost to him;
ensure any adverse  information is removed from Mr Cs credit  file in relation to the 
hire agreement;
pay Mr C £125 in respect of the service plan;
add 8% simple yearly interest  on this amount from 23 December 2016 to the date of 
settlement; 
pay Mr C £500 for Mr Cs impaired use of the car and his loss of use of it; and
pay Mr C £250 compensation to reflect  the overall distress and inconvenience 
caused by the faulty goods.
If Lex Autolease Ltd considers that its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the 
above interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7924042