K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card in 2000. Mrs J says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her 
the PPI.
Mrs J took out the store  card in a shop in 1990, and was later sold PPI over the phone   but 
FICL has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs J says that she doesnt remember a conversation that took place about  PPI  but 
this isnt surprising  for a sale that took place so long ago. Theres  no call recording 
available, but this isnt unusual for a sale made in 2000,  and businesses arent required 
to keep records indefinitely. But FICL  has provided  a call script that was in use at the 
time which shows that its representative  would be prompted to point out that the PPI was 
optional, and gain proper consent  for it to be added to an account. While I cant be 
certain how closely this script  was followed, I havent seen anything  to suggest FICL did 
anything differently when it sold PPI to Mrs J. And as she already had her store card for 
a long time, I think its likely she wouldve known that she didnt have to have PPI, and 
chose to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs J got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said, including what shes said about why she would 
take out PPI after shes  already had the store card for so long, and that as she was in a high 
paid job at the time she didnt need  the cover.
I dont know why Mrs J decided to take out PPI so long after having the card  but I do think  
that its likely  she was given a choice to do so as Ive explained above. And while  Mrs J may 
have been in a high paying job, PPI, like other  insurance, is designed to pay out should  the 
unexpected happen. 
Ref: DRN70129022So these points dont  change my decision,  and for the reasons  set out above, I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7012902