K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC cant locate  the unit trust savings  plan that he 
started in 1974.
 
background
Mr D started a unit trust savings  plan in 1974. Recently he has found some statements, the 
latest from 1989, showing the value  of the holding  to be just short of £600.  He has asked 
Barclays what has happened to the account but it isnt able to locate  it.
The investigator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She said that Barclays  had 
searched all its accounts, both live and dormant, and hadnt  been able to find it. It has also 
checked its historical database. The investigator  thought that it was mostly likely  that the 
account closed  more than six years  ago. 
Mr D responded to say that he didnt recall closing  the account,  the bank hadnt  provided any 
evidence to show he had closed it and, if he had, he would have kept the closing statement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I understand Mr Ds concerns in that he has statements which  show that, in May 1989, his 
account had a value of just short of £600.  He doesnt have any documents  to show that the 
money was withdrawn or that he closed the account.  Mr D has said that he didnt close it 
because he would have  kept records. However,  the fact that Mr D still has statements for the 
savings plan isnt enough in itself to show the account still exists. 
I am satisfied that Barclays  has thoroughly searched  its records.  I can see that Mr D had 
another savings  account with Barclays and its records show  that this account was closed in 
August 2014.
Barclays does not hold a register of dormant  accounts  its accounts are either open or 
closed. Therefore, if the account was still open  it would appear  in its records and it should  be 
possible to locate it. Barclays has also searched its historical database of accounts that have 
closed and hasnt  found a record of the plan. But it doesnt keep  information  about closed 
accounts indefinitely.  
After careful consideration, I consider it more likely than not that this account  was closed 
many years ago in circumstances that, with the passage of time,  Mr D can no longer recall.  
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not persuaded that Barclays should be required to pay 
the value represented by the last statement. I appreciate that Mr D would like to know, with 
certainty, what happened to the money  in the account and that he considers Barclays should  
be able to produce records to show what happened to the plan.  But, banks are not required 
Ref: DRN76458162to keep records for more  than six years,  so there  is no failing on Barclays  part in being 
unable to provide  such  evidence.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7645816