K820x#14The complaint
Mrs B says Canada Square Operations Limited  trading  as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The policy was added  to Mrs Bs at the same time as taking out a credit card online in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold during an online application  and Egg should have made Mrs B aware  
she had a choice  about buying the PPI. Mrs B says she wasnt aware the PPI had been 
added.
Egg has explained the sales  process and given us screenshots  of how the PPI wouldve 
been shown to Mrs B at the time of the sale. I have no reason to think Mrs B wouldve seen 
something different.  So, Ive looked  carefully at these screenshots and I can see Mrs B 
wouldve been given  a choice to select yes or no to buy the policy. The process  would 
have required an option to be selected before an applicant could have moved  on to the next 
section. And the fact the PPI was added to Mrs Bs account makes me think  its more likely  
she selected the yes option.
So, I think Egg made Mrs B aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it.
The policy was taken  out over the internet, without any apparent  involvement from an Egg 
representative so I dont think it recommended the PPI to Mrs B. This means  Egg didnt have 
to check it was right for her. But it shouldve made sure it gave Mrs B enough information to 
allow her to choose whether the PPI was right for her or not.
Looking at the screenshots, I think the information  Egg gave Mrs B about the costs, benefits 
and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. So, Ive got to 
consider whether better  information about  the policy wouldve put Mrs B off taking  it out.
I dont think it would  have.  Mrs B doesnt appear  to have been affected at the time by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover  such as any existing health conditions  or any 
unusual working  patterns.
Mrs B says she wouldve  received good sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside these benefits  and would have also covered her repayments 
Ref: DRN76356622if she was made unemployed. She also says she didnt  have  any other means  of making  her 
repayments  such as savings. So, I think Mrs B would have had a use for the policy.  
Taking everything into account,  even if Mrs B had been given  clear  information, I still think  
she wouldve bought  the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs B has told us  including  what she has said about 
having private medical care. But, if Mrs B was too unwell  to work, the medical care would 
have paid for any treatments she needed,  it wouldnt have covered any repayments she 
needed to make whilst she was unable to work. So, the fact she had this cover doesnt 
change my decision. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs B has lost out because of anything Egg might have done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7635662