K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  moved to a new more  expensive overdraft 
pricing structure which charged a daily fee for use of his facility.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr S complained in 2018  saying these changes  were unfair as he had 
a Premier account which was meant  to provide  him with a better  overdraft interest rate.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr S complaint. It said it was entitled to change its pricing structure  and 
while this meant some  customers might end up paying more,  it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. It also said that it had reduced the fees Mr S paid for 
a period as part of this mitigation. Mr S remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds  had done  
anything wrong  or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. Ive 
seen what Mr S has said about having a Premier  account. But the Premier account fees    
Mr S paid were for the benefits  including a preferential interest  rate  he was receiving at 
the time.   Lloyds was entitled to change  the package of benefits, which  it will have done on 
numerous occasions through the period  Mr S had the account. 
So I dont  think Mr S was guaranteed an overdraft on preferential  terms indefinitely. And 
Lloyds appear  to have provided him with notice of the changes  in advance of them  
happening. So while  Mr S is unhappy with what he considers  to be an unfair and substantial  
increase in Lloyds overdraft  interest rate and the removal  of his preferential  terms, Im afraid  
that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds charging  structure changes  per se, it wont have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr S if it implemented these changes  to his account 
unfairly. For example,  in circumstances where he was in financial difficulty  and it took no 
steps to mitigate  the effects  of the proposed changes and this compounded his difficulties. 
So Ive considered whether Lloyds treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when it implemented 
these changes on his overdraft. 
Ref: DRN74879092Having thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. The first thing  to say is that Lloyds appears to have applied a 
reduced rate on Mr S for a period. And it also refunded some of the charges when Mr S 
complained. Equally, having looked at Mr S suite of accounts with Lloyds, I cant  reasonably 
say that Lloyds ought to have realised Mr S might have been  experiencing financial difficulty  
in advance of him notifying this was the case. 
I accept that Mr S had a large overdraft  limit which he was using regularly. And that this in 
itself could be considered a sign of potential difficulty, especially as theres an argument  for 
saying Mr S was hardcore borrowing  in other  words his account was persistently 
overdrawn and often  for extended periods. But Im mindful here that funds were  going into 
this account. And crucially  it looks as though Mr S had the funds  with Lloyds to exit the 
facility too. 
So I think that its fair to say that for large  periods Mr S actions suggest he was choosing  to 
use his facility in the way he did, rather than doing  so because he had no choice. In these 
circumstances, I cant  reasonably reach the conclusion that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable  for Mr S, or that Lloyds ought to have taken corrective action 
before Mr S got in touch.
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of      
Mr S overdraft permitted Lloyds to make  the price  changes  it did to Mr S account.  Im also 
satisfied that Lloyds didnt implemented these  changes in a way that treated Mr S unfairly. 
As this is the case, it follows that Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I realise  that this will be 
very disappointing for Ms S  especially as hes quite correctly pointed  out that its taken 
some time for his case to reach this stage. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision  and at least feel that his concerns  have  been listened  to.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487909