K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs S says Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC (trading  as Tesco  Bank)  mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Tesco has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which Mrs S 
signed. This has a separate section  for the PPI, in which  I can see theres a tick to take 
out the cover. Mrs S has stated strongly that she didnt tick for the PPI, and I accept this 
is possible. But overall I just dont think theres enough evidence to say Mrs S didnt tick 
for the PPI. And I think its most likely  that Tesco made it clear that Mrs S didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
Tesco didnt provide Mrs S with a personalised recommendation to take out the PPI so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Im satisfied she most likely  chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it could have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said. But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN73814262what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs S any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs S the difference  between 
what Mrs S owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs S 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading  as Tesco Bank) does have to pay back to Mrs S 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381426