K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Gain Credit  LLC trading as Lending Stream  was irresponsible  when it 
provided her with five high-cost short-term instalment loans in 2015 and 2016.
background
Mrs E took five loans  from Lending  Stream between 12 April 2015 and 31 January 2016. This 
table contains  some of the information Lending  Stream has provided about Mrs Es loans.
 date loan  
was takendate loan  
was repaidprincipal 
amount
Loan 1 12/04/15 28/08/15 £150.00
Loan 2 05/06/15 30/09/15 £100.00
Loan 3 18/09/15 30/01/16 £100.00
Loan 4 04/01/16 26/01/18 £200.00
Loan 5 31/01/16 outstanding £720.00
The amounts of the loans varied  from £100  to £720. All the loans were due to be repaid over 
six instalments. Mrs E repaid Loans 1, 2 and 3 early. 
Mrs E fell behind with her repayments on Loan  4, which wasnt  repaid until around  two years 
after it was taken  when Lending Stream agreed  to write off the balance  on payment of a 
small sum which meant that Mrs E repaid only the principal she had borrowed - £200.  
As Mrs E failed to meet her repayments  as agreed for Loan 5, Lending Stream  sold on the 
debt to a third-party  debt collector. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mrs Es complaint and concluded  that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mrs E didnt accept his assessment and so the case  came to me  an ombudsman  for 
a decision. A few weeks ago, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to 
uphold some aspects  of Mrs Es complaint. I invited the parties to let me have anything further 
they wanted me to consider. They have both now responded to my provisional decision.
This is my final decision. If Mrs E accepts it, my decision will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach  
to complaints about short-term lending - including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.  
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mrs E 
could repay  her loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Es income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN79605292But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending  Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for Mrs E. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given  loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment  from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal  that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether  Mrs E could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Whilst that might  be an indication a borrower could sustainably make their repayments, it 
doesnt automatically  follow.  This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as 
meaning that a borrower could repay the loans over the term of the agreement  without undue  
difficulties, on time, whilst  meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to 
borrow to meet those repayments. And the regulations  said that an assessment should  take 
into account  more than simply assessing the customer's ability to repay  the credit.
With this in mind  Ive carefully  considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information 
provided and what this all means for Mrs Es complaint.   For ease of reference Ive rounded 
the figures involved.
Lending Stream obtained  details from Mrs E about her income and outgoings  before it 
provided the loans. It also undertook some credit checks. For Loans 1, 2 and 3 she declared 
an income of £1,900 and £1,950.  And, her declared expenses varied between £500 and 
£700.
Loan 1 was for £150. The highest repayment was due to be £65. Whilst  she had Loan 1 she 
took Loan  2 meaning that the highest amount due was around £97 in July 2015.  Mrs E repaid 
Loan 1 early  - at the end of August. Around three weeks later she applied  for Loan 3. As with 
Loan 2, the amount borrowed was less than for Loan 1. Ive looked at the credit file 
information obtained by Lending Stream  and although  her credit score  was deteriorating, 
broadly speaking  I dont think there was enough of concern to warrant Lending  Stream doing 
more checks before providing these loans, given the other information it had.
But Im satisfied that Lending Stream shouldve  done much more to verify Mrs Es financial 
situation before it provided Loan 4. This was for double  the amount of the two most  recent 
loans and was her fourth loan in nine months. And Loan 3 was still outstanding at this point. 
Lending Stream has provided us with a summary  of the credit check  results it obtained  for 
Mrs E. From this, it seems that Lending Stream was aware that Mrs E had recently  defaulted 
on an account  at some point around five months before she took Loan 4. This is because the 
results shows  that when  she was applying  for Loans 1, 2 and 3, five defaults were recorded  - 
the last one had been around four years previously. Whereas,  when she applied for Loan  4 
she now had six defaults with the most recent recorded five months before (most likely  during 
the time Mrs E had Loans 1 and 2). Additionally  Lending Stream was aware  from the credit  
file  -  not only that she had nine active accounts but also that the value of her delinquent 
accounts had increased between  Loans  3 and 4.
A full financial  review  shouldve been undertaken at the point Mrs E applied for Loan 5. She 
applied for £1,000 but Lending Stream  approved a lower sum - £720.  It hasnt  told us why it 
Ref: DRN79605293did this, but I expect that it was something  to do with her poor credit situation. In any event, 
this was still a significant  increase in the loan amount compared  to earlier loans. Loan 5 was 
taken on 31 January 2016  - the day after Loan 3 was repaid. Not only was Loan 4 still 
outstanding  so that in March she was due to repay over £400,  but Mrs E hadnt actually 
made her first repayment on Loan 4 (due on 29 January). Lending Stream was aware of all of 
this and that her credit  profile had been deteriorating. Additionally, this was her fifth loan in 
nine months   during  which time there hadnt been any periods during which Mrs E wasnt 
indebted to Lending Stream. 
Ive looked at the credit file Mrs E has provided. Its clear  that she had been  borrowing from 
multiple other high-cost  lenders throughout the time she had been  borrowing from Lending 
Stream. Additionally, there were longer term credit  agreements in her name including credit 
cards, catalogue accounts  and a mortgage. 
For example, so far as high-cost short term credit is concerned around the time of Loans 4 
and 5, I can see the following  loans:
Lender A - loan taken  before Loan 1 and finally  settled after Loan 5 was taken
Lender B - loan taken  during Loan 3 and repaid after Loan 5 was taken
Lender C - loan taken  during Loan 3 and repaid just before Loan 4 was taken
Lender D - loan taken  during Loan 1 and repaid after Loan  5 was taken
Lender B - loan taken  during Loan 3 and repaid just before  Loan 4 was taken
Lender C - Loan taken just before  Loan 4 and repaid  after Loan 5 was taken
The credit  report shows a persistent pattern  of borrowing and repaying high-cost  credit 
lenders over a lengthy  period. Had Lending Stream done what I think  are proportionate 
checks it wouldve realised that Mrs E was not likely to be able to meet  her loan repayments 
from sustainable means and that she was in a cycle of borrowing to repay  earlier credit  an 
unstainable position.  And as it turned  out  she wasnt  able to repay Loans 4 and 5. She 
finally repaid Loan 4 two years later and Loan 5 was sold to a debt collection agency.
I think  that by providing these last two loans  to Mrs E, Lending Stream  treated her unfairly. 
Not only was it unlikely shed be able to repay these loans sustainably,  but it was prolonging  
her indebtedness. These high-cost short-term products were intended for short term use to 
plug a temporary shortfall in a borrowers  cash-flow. Had Loan  5 progressed  as per the credit 
agreement Mrs E wouldve  been indebted to Lending Stream for 15 months without  a break  
and with some of the loans overlapping with others. The amount being borrowed for Loans 4 
and 5 had increased - and Mrs E had actually asked for significantly more when  she applied 
for Loan 5. In these circumstances Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mrs E was having to borrow  further to cover the hole in her finances which was 
left from repaying  earlier credit. This wasnt sustainable and potentially was harmful in that it 
was likely  to restrict her ability to access mainstream  (and cheaper) credit.
In response to my provisional decision Lending Stream has said it accepts my decision and 
has made an offer.
Mrs E has again explained  the difficulties she had when trying  to contact Lending Stream 
during some  very stressful family  times. I had noted  the information  shed previously  sent to 
us about those issues. I am sorry to read that Mrs E had so much to deal with and I have 
thought carefully  about what shes said. But I'm not persuaded that shes provided anything 
new such that I should change my provisional  conclusions - which  I think are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
With all this in mind, my decision is to uphold Mrs Es complaint about Loans 4 and 5.
Ref: DRN79605294putting things right
Lending Stream shouldnt  have provided Mrs E with Loans 4 and 5. 
I understand that Mrs E may not have paid any interest or charges on Loan 4 when it was 
settled in January  2018  she only repaid the capital  amount shed borrowed. I also 
understand that there is an outstanding balance on Loan 5. Lending  Stream  has said that, 
as the account  remains  open with the third party, it will be able to repurchase it. It adds that 
it has already calculated that if it carries  out my provisional proposals, then there  will still be 
a small capital balance  outstanding on Loan  5 and that it would  be support Mrs E in the 
setting up of a repayment  plan to clear this. 
I havent seen  Lending Streams statement of accounts and so cannot confirm  whether its 
calculations are correct. But if Mrs E accepts this final decision Lending Stream should 
provide her with a clear breakdown of how it has calculated the figures  it has reached.  
And to be clear, this is what I require  Lending  Stream to do: 
a)Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mrs E 
towards interest, fees and charges on Loan 4.
b)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs E 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled 
c)Lending Stream should buy back the loan from the third party  as it has already said it 
will do, remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  on Loan  
5, and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs E as though  they had been repayments  of 
the principal  on Loan  5. If this results in Mrs E having made overpayments  then 
Lending Stream should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled.   Lending  Stream should then also refund the 
amounts calculated  in a) and b) and move to step e)
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance on Loan  5 then the amounts calculated in a) 
and b) should  be used  to repay  any balance  remaining on the outstanding loans 
If this results  in a surplus then the surplus  should  be paid to Mrs E. However, if there 
is still an outstanding  balance then Lending Stream should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs E. It shouldnt  pursue  outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off.  
e)Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Es credit 
file in relation  to Loan 4. Once  any outstanding principal balance  on Loan 5 is settled 
it should also remove any adverse information recorded about  that loan from her 
credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs E a 
certificate showing how much  tax it has deducted,  if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN79605295my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mrs Es complaint 
about Loans 4 and 5 and I require Gain Credit LLC to put things right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7960529