K821x#15complaint
E, a charity,  complains about the service provided  by British Gas Services Limited (BGS)  
under a gas service  contract. 
The charity  is represented in this complaint by Ms W, a trustee. 
background
In April 2019, Ms W told BGS via a live chat that the charity wished to go paperless. Very 
shortly afterwards, BGS emailed Ms W, but addressed her as Mr W in error. They did this 
on at least one subsequent occasion.  They also sent a number of further letters  by post, 
despite repeated  requests from Ms W to use email only. 
Ms W complained, saying these errors were extremely distressing for her. BGS replied to 
her complaint by writing  to her home address, not the charitys address, which she also 
complained about.  BGS  apologised for their administrative  errors and offered the charity £50 
in compensation  for them. They also offered Ms W some personal compensation. 
Ms W wasnt satisfied  with BGS response, so she asked our service to look into things. She 
also handed in her resignation as secretary of the charity, although she remains  a trustee. 
She said this was because her disability meant  that shed found the actions of BGS  
extremely distressing.  
One of our investigators  looked into things and recommended upholding the complaint.  She 
explained that she could only look at compensation for the inconvenience  caused to the 
charity. But because BGS errors had caused Ms W to resign, and this had caused the 
charity some  trouble,  she thought an increase in compensation from £50 to £200 was 
appropriate. 
BGS disagreed. They said they agreed that theyd made errors  and they should have 
resolved them more swiftly. But they werent persuaded that their errors were  responsible  for 
Ms Ws resigning  from the charity. They also said that no one else from the charity had 
contacted them to express any concerns. And when BGS had tried to contact Ms W to 
discuss her complaint, she hadnt  responded. 
Because BGS  didnt  agree, it falls to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for essentially  the same reasons. 
BGS have accepted that they made errors here so theres no dispute about that. I note in 
particular that they repeatedly sent letters,  some of them  entirely in error, after Ms W had 
informed them that she was making the request for email only as a reasonable adjustment  
under the Equality Act 2010.  In my view, this ought  reasonably to have led BGS to put 
particular focus  on ensuring theyd updated their records. 
Ref: DRN76137942This complaint has been brought by Ms W as a trustee of the charity. I want  to make  it clear 
that I dont  have the power to make  any findings  about the personal  distress caused to Ms W 
by BGS, because  there isnt a customer relationship between Ms W and BGS  here.  BGS  
customer is the charity, but a charity  isnt a human being, so it cant  suffer distress.  However, 
the fact that I cant consider the impact on Ms W, doesnt make Ms Ws distress  any less 
real. 
The decision  for me is the right level of compensation for the charity.  I note that BGS errors  
havent caused the charity any direct loss. As Ive said, a charity  cant  suffer distress.  So Im 
looking here at the inconvenience caused  by BGS  errors. 
BGS have already  offered £50, although I understand that the charity  never received the 
cheque. Our investigator felt that this wasnt enough and that £200  would be a fairer  figure. I 
agree. 
The charity  is an organisation run by volunteers. What might be a minor inconvenience  to a 
commercial enterprise  can have a more lasting  impact there. In this case, BGS  kept sending  
post to a hut, which is not in my view an ideal  location for receiving correspondence. What is 
more, Ms W has felt forced to resign  because BGS  correspondence  was causing her so 
much stress. This in turn means  that the charity  needs to find another volunteer to handle  its 
administration, which is a material inconvenience. 
I know BGS have cast doubt  on whether Ms Ws resignation is solely down  to their actions. 
But Ms W has told us this is the case. And the level of distress the errors have caused Ms W 
is in my view very apparent from her correspondence. So I think its more likely than not that 
BGS actions are the principal, if not the sole, cause of her decision. 
BGS have made the point that no one else at the charity has expressed any concerns about 
their actions. But as a trustee, Ms W is entitled to represent the charity.  I dont need to get all 
the trustees  to give their opinions. And Ive seen no evidence that the other trustees dont 
support Ms Ws complaint. 
BGS have also said that Ms W hadnt  responded to their attempts to discuss matters.  Im not 
persuaded this is relevant to the level of compensation  the charity should  receive.  But in any 
case, Ive seen no evidence of Ms W not responding to emails, although she has told us 
more than once  that BGS  were trying to get in touch  with her by means that were not her 
preference. I think  it was reasonable for her not to respond to these, having made her 
requirements clear. 
All in all, I think that a sum of £200  is fair to cover  the inconvenience caused  to the charity. 
BGS should therefore cancel its original  cheque,  if it hasnt already done  so, and pay the 
charity £200, preferably by bank transfer. 
Ref: DRN76137943my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct British Gas Services Limited to pay the charity £200 in 
compensation. British  Gas Services Limited should email  the charity  to establish its preferred 
method of payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W, on behalf of 
the charity, to accept or reject my decision before 21 March  2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7613794