K820x#14Complaint
A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly  declined  its building  
insurance claim.
The complainants  in this case are a group of property owners represented by a lead 
individual  Mr N. But for ease, Ill refer to them collectively as A throughout this decision.
Background
In 2016, A made a claim under its buildings insurance policy  for subsidence. The damage 
was occurring in a basement storage room of the insured property. A said it first noticed  
minor cracking  to a wall in this room in 2014,  but didnt report  this to RSA because it 
expected minor cracks to form given  the age of the building. It said it only noticed  the 
damage was more severe in 2016,  when  it moved storage boxes that were stacked against 
the wall, which revealed the extent of the damage.
RSA appointed loss adjusters  Company B  who visited the building  and concluded the 
damage wasnt a result  of subsidence  but rather because of a combination of lateral forces  
and wear and tear. The claim was subsequently  declined as RSA said an insured peril 
hadnt occurred.
In 2018, A asked  RSA to reconsider the claim under the accidental damage  part of the policy 
and said that nobody told it the previous claim had been declined. RSA said the loss adjuster 
notes stated that Company B had discussed the claim outcome at length with A at the time it 
visited the property   so it was under  the impression A had been made aware of its decision. 
RSA declined the claim for accidental damage, saying gradual  damage is excluded under 
the policy and it thought  the damage  being claimed  for had clearly happened over a period 
of time before being  reported to RSA.
A disagreed and brought a complaint to this service.  It said it pays  its insurance to be 
covered for instances like this, so it thought RSA should pay the claim. Our investigator  
considered the matter  and didnt uphold the complaint. A disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A buildings  insurance  policy isnt typically  designed to cover  every issue  that affects a 
property. Its there to cover the cost of repairing  (or rebuilding) a property  if its damaged or 
destroyed because  of a type of unforeseen event, often referred to as an insured peril.  The 
terms and conditions of As policy set out which insured perils are covered under it. And 
when making a claim, A needs to demonstrate that an insured peril has occurred. 
A initially made a claim to RSA for subsidence.  And under the policy,  subject to the relevant  
terms and conditions, A is covered for Subsidence and/or ground heave of any part of the 
site on which  the Premises stand and/or landslip. RSA appointed Company B to inspect the 
damage and report  its findings  which is not unusual in cases  of this nature.
Ref: DRN76238712Company B concluded; The damage  noted is not the result  of subsidence because the 
pattern and nature of the cracks  is not consistent  with foundation movement. Significant 
bowing was noted  to the left-hand flank wall of the under steps cupboard  (when viewed from 
the road). This bowing is clearly longstanding  as it was evident externally and the steps 
leading down to the basement area had been  constructed to fit the bow in the wall. There  is 
a large tree within the front garden  of the risk address, and it is likely that the physical root 
growth of the tree is pushing  against the flank wall causing the bowing  noted.  This will have 
been occurring  gradually over a long period of time. The inside of the under steps cupboard 
has been rendered  at some point in the past.  We suspect that the render has a waterproof 
additive to minimise the effects  of damp  penetration. It would appear the render has now de-
bonded either as a result of inadequate key to the substrate or further lateral  movement 
occurring to the flank wall causing the cracking  evident.
Subsidence can be described as when the ground  beneath a building  sinks, pulling the 
propertys foundations down with it. But based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded thats 
what happened in this case to cause the damage  As claiming for. Based on Company Bs 
findings, the damage seems to be more consistent with lateral movement where the 
movement happens  sideways, rather than downward, and can cause  bowing  or bulging to 
walls  which is what seems to have  happened  in this case. 
Ive not seen any other supporting evidence  that reasonably contradicts Company Bs 
findings, so Im persuaded by its conclusion  that the damage hasnt been caused by 
subsidence. So Im satisfied RSA has fairly declined As claim for the damage under this part 
of the policy. 
Im aware A also asked RSA to consider the claim under accidental damage. Cover  for this 
peril is available  under As policy but is subject  to certain limitations and exclusions set out in 
the terms and conditions. 
A says it first noticed cracking  to the basement wall in 2014  but didnt report it to RSA until 
2016 when the storage boxes were  moved to make  the wall more  visible.  It said it couldnt 
have known the tree roots  were causing problems and that the tree had a Tree Protection 
Order (TPO) so couldnt be touched.
RSA said the damage being claimed for wasnt covered under accidental damage as itd 
happened gradually and so was excluded under the policy. It said that while A may not have 
been aware of the tree roots, the resultant damage wouldve been  visible  and occurring over 
time  so it shouldve known something  was wrong.  And it said the TPO didnt make  a 
difference to its decision on the claim.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied the damage has happened gradually. And I think  A 
shouldve reasonably been  aware of the damage  at the very latest  in 2014, when it first 
noticed cracking in the basement. 
A decided  not to inspect the cracking further at that time and as a result,  Im persuaded the 
damage continued to gradually deteriorate until A registered its claim with RSA in 2016. The 
policy excludes damage caused  by or consisting of gradual deterioration or wear and tear. 
So I think RSA has fairly declined to cover  the damage under this part of the policy.
In summary,  based on what Ive seen in this case,  Im satisfied RSA handled  As claim fairly 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions.  So I wont be directing it to do anything  
further in this case. 
Ref: DRN76238713My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7623871