K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the poor service he got from Next Risk Solutions Limited when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ds car was involved in an accident.  As hed paid extra for a guaranteed  replacement car, 
Mr D expected to get one. But he found  that as he had endorsements on his licence he 
wasnt entitled to one. Next Risk refunded the £35 hed paid for the extra cover and offered 
him £10 for each  day he should have had a replacement car (£210). On 13 February 2019 
he was told £245  would  be paid into his bank account within seven  days. Mr D accepted  the 
proposed settlement. He complained to us when the payment wasnt  received in that time.
On 25 February 2019 Mr D told us Next Risk had now said the payment wasnt going to be 
transferred to his bank  account at all. It said it was going to be deducted  from the remaining 
£1,500 in premium  payments due on his policy. It said should he cancel the policy, that sum 
would be payable straight away, given the open claim. Next Risk said when its advisor told 
him the money  would  be paid into his account, she didnt know Mr D still owed money  on the 
policy. It said its practice was to deduct  any settlement sum from any outstanding balance  
and that Mr Ds premium payments had now reduced by around £37 per month.
Mr D said Next Risk had messed him about  so much he now wanted  a very large sum in 
compensation, plus his remaining balance to be written-off. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ds complaint. She said the replacement  vehicle cover  
shouldnt have been sold to Mr D, as it wasnt suitable for him. But she thought  it was 
reasonable that Next Risk had offered to refund the premium  for it and had also pay him a 
further £210. As she thought Next Risk should have told Mr D before it changed the way the 
settlement was paid,  she thought it should  pay him £50 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Next Risk didnt comment on the investigators  view,  but Mr D didnt accept it, so the 
complaint was passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable  for Next Risk to offer Mr D a refund plus a payment for the days he 
was without a car. I think its entitled  to decide how to apply refunds and cash  settlements,  
depending on the circumstances of each  case.  I dont think  Mr D has lost out financially as a 
result of its actions, as Next Risk has still transferred funds to him by reducing the sum he 
owes. But I dont think the advisor should have promised to pay the money  into Mr Ds bank 
account without  checking first whether  he had an outstanding balance.  That raised his 
expectations. I also think he should  have been  told in advance why Next Risk had changed  
its mind about the way it was going  to compensate  him.
Mr D made  it clear  to Next Risk that he was annoyed and disappointed that it hadnt done 
what it promised to do. He didnt say that not being paid the money  would cause him any 
financial hardship. Had he said he needed the payment - and shown that there would be an 
adverse financial  impact him if he didnt get it - Id have expected  Next Risk to take that into 
Ref: DRN72348652account. Depending on the circumstances, I think it might have been fair and reasonable for 
it to have acted  differently. But Mr D didnt raise any such concerns. 
I think Mr D faced a limited amount  of distress and inconvenience as a result  of Next Risks 
actions, so I think it would be fair for it to pay him £50 compensation. In my opinion, thats a 
reasonable way to settle Mr Ds complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Next Risk Solutions Limited 
to pay Mr D £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7234865