K821x#15complaint
Mr S says that Glyn Hopkin Limited (GHL) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when he arranged finance to get a car. 
background
Mr S entered into a hire purchase  agreement to get a car in 2005. At the same  time he was 
sold a PPI policy. The policy wouldve covered his loan repayments  if he was unable  to work 
due to accident or sickness or lost his job. And the policy wouldve settled the outstanding 
balance if he died or got a critical illness. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because  he didnt think there  
was enough evidence to show Mr S understood  he had a choice in taking the policy  and that 
he agreed to buy it. 
GHL disagreed. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss complaint. 
The policy was sold during a meeting with a GHL sales advisor. GHL had to make  clear to 
Mr S that he had a choice  in taking the PPI and get his agreement before including it with his 
finance agreement. Mr S says he didnt know he had a choice about having the PPI. 
GHL says a demands  and needs  statement (DNS) wouldve  been  completed during the sale 
which required Mr S to sign to confirm he wanted PPI. GHL hasnt been  able to give us a 
copy of Mr Ss DNS but it has given us a sample  of one it says was in use at the time.  Ive 
looked at this, but I dont think this is the type of DNS that was used during  the sale of PPI to 
Mr S. 
I say this because  I can see that there are three types of PPI cover available  on it  budget,  
standard and premier.  But I can see from a copy of Mr Ss credit  agreement that he was sold 
a Gold policy which isnt one of the options  on the DNS. So I dont think  I can rely on this 
document, which means I cant say how PPI is likely to have been presented to Mr S or how 
it ended  up on his credit  agreement. 
GHL says Mr Ss credit  agreement  clearly  shows that PPI is optional.  And I acknowledge 
that within the section about PPI, it does say its optional. But Mr S is likely  to have relied on 
and trusted what he was told by the sales advisor, rather than reading the credit  agreement 
in any detail. And I dont  have anything to show how the sales advisor is likely to have  
presented the PPI to Mr S. So I dont think this alone  is enough to say its more likely than 
not that it was made clear to Mr S that he had a choice about  taking out the PPI. It follows  
that I uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN79671592what GHL should do to put things right
Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so the amount of credit he was given was bigger 
than it shouldve been. He paid more  than he should have each month  and it cost him more 
to repay  the credit  than it would have. So Mr S needs to get back the extra  hes paid.
So, GHL should:
Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the 
agreement and what he would have paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what it cost to pay off the credit and what  
it would  have cost to pay off the credit without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, GHL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires GHL to take off tax from this interest.  GHL must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Glyn Hopkin Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7967159