K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold the PPI policy.
When PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs H, Bank  of Scotland Plc was trading as Halifax. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  I can see that after our adjudicator 
issued their view, Halifax  told us that although  it didnt do anything wrong in relation  to the 
commission Mr and Mrs H paid for their policy, it made a compensation offer as if it had 
done something wrong in respect  of commission. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  about this mis-sale 
and raised what I consider to be several complaint points that apply generally  to PPI sales. 
They didnt state how those arguments related specifically to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I 
cant see that any response was received in respect of the offer Halifax  made to refund 
some of the commission. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Halifax  didnt  need  to tell Mr and 
Mrs H about the commission it received - so it doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI. But in any event Halifax  has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything  more. Ive summarised 
my reasons  for each of these conclusions below. 
 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Halifax told Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. It wasnt specifically argued 
Ref: DRN71910702by those representing Mr and Mrs H that the optional nature of the cover  wasnt made clear. 
In any event, the policy that was sold to Mr and Mrs H was a total mortgage protection  plan. 
Mr and Mrs H chose to take out the mortgage repayments element of the cover, and they 
refused the life and critical illness elements. If they knew they could pick and choose which 
parts of the cover they wanted, I think theyd have  known they could refuse  all of it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check  that the PPI was suitable. 
And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. The policy was set up to cover both Mr and Mrs 
H. So if one of them was off sick or was made  redundant,  50% of their repayments would 
have been covered. If they were both off at the same time, 100% of the repayments  would  
have been covered. I can see that both Mr and Mrs H had some sick pay. But the policy 
would have lasted  for up to 24 months for each claim, which is significantly longer than their 
sick pay and savings  would have lasted for. 
I can see that Mr H told us hed had some back trouble in 1973  and a liver problem later on. 
Mrs H told us shed been diagnosed with stress  and had two short  periods off work because 
of that, although  its not clear when that was. Our adjudicator asked those  representing Mr 
and Mrs H for some more information  about their medical conditions, but none was provided.  
However, I can see from the electronic information provided to us by Halifax  from the point of 
sale, that both Mr and Mrs H indicated  they didnt have any medical  conditions.  And Halifax 
recorded that it spoke to Mr and Mrs H in respect  of their complaint and they said again  that 
they had no medical  conditions.  On that basis, even though  Mr and Mrs H may have had 
health conditions,  I dont think they were  troubling  them at the point of sale and I dont think  
theyd have been prevented from making  a claim because of their health at the relevant time. 
I also havent seen  anything unusual about  their employment circumstances that would have 
stopped them from being able to make a successful claim  if they needed to. That being so, I 
think Halifax made a suitable  recommendation.  
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs H enough  information about the cover so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good  fit for their needs. Its possible the information 
provided at the point  of sale wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found  that Mr and 
Mrs H chose to take the cover out - so it looks like they wanted this type of policy. As I have 
set out above,  the cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable, nor was it too dissimilar 
to what they reasonably thought it was from the information provided at the point  of sale. It 
also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been useful if something  
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have declined the cover had 
Halifax done anything  more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  So I think  
they would  have still thought they had some  good  reasons  to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Ref: DRN71910703Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these  points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case.  But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more  
it needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
The representative has made a number of representations about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary  they said Mr and Mrs H should get back all the money that was paid for the 
policy because:  Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission.  It is further argued a 
refund of all premiums should be paid.  
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less 
than half of what was paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in this case  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN71910704-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed  to tell Mr and Mrs H about the commission. So it follows  that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax  treated Mr 
and Mrs H unfairly. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs H back  any of the commission that was 
paid for the PPI.  But in any event Halifax has offered to give back  to Mr and Mrs H some  of 
the cost of the PPI to compensate Mr and Mrs H as if it had treated them  unfairly. So I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and so I havent 
directed any compensation to be paid in respect  of that. 
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI. 
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and
Mrs H. Halifax  should now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs H if it hasnt done so 
already 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 October  2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7191070