K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services, wont refund to him the monthly payments that he made for a car that was supplied 
to him under  a hire agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr A under a hire agreement with Audi Financial Services that he 
electronically signed in March 2018.  He complained about some issues with the car and it 
was returned to two different dealers - but Audi Financial Services says that no faults were  
found. 
Mr A complained to Audi Financial Services and it offered in November 2018 to release him 
from the agreement  at no cost to him and to make a partial refund of £800 of the initial rental 
that hed paid. Mr A accepted that offer so returned the car and received the £800  refund. 
Audi Financial Services also refunded £173  to Mr A for half a months  rental.
Mr A complained to this service that he should also receive a refund of his monthly 
payments. The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She 
didnt think that Audi Financial Services should  refund the monthly repayments to Mr A as 
hed had use of the car. She said that no faults were  found on any of the inspection  reports  
so she believed that Audi Financial Services had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that he spent a lot of money on the car and he only did so many miles in it because he had 
to take the car to the garage  so many times. He says that he should receive a refund of his 
monthly payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was supplied to Mr A in March 2018.  He complained to the dealer about some faults 
with the car. It was unable to find a fault but Mr A says that the faults continued so he took 
the car to anothers manufacturers  dealer.  He says that a fault was found but that dealer  
and Audi Financial Services say that no fault was found. 
Mr A complained to Audi Financial Services and it offered in November 2018  as a gesture  
of goodwill   to release  him from the agreement at no cost to him and to refund to him £800 
of the initial  rental that hed paid. Mr A accepted  that offer so returned the car and received 
the £800 refund. Audi Financial Services also refunded £173  to him for half a months rental. 
Mr A then said that he should  also be refunded  for the monthly payments that hed made  for 
the car. But that wasnt part of the offer that was made to him by Audi Financial Services  - 
and which  he accepted. 
Mr A had used the car for more than nine months  and it had been  driven  for 5,497  miles 
when it was returned. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Audi Financial Services to 
keep the monthly  payments that he made  for the car as payment for the use that hes had 
from it. Mr A says that he only did so many  miles in the car because  he had to take the car to 
Ref: DRN77641192the garage so many  times. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Audi Financial Services to refund any of those payments to 
him.
I consider that Audi Financial Services has acted fairly  and reasonably in response  to Mr As 
complaint. It has allowed  Mr A to reject  the car and refunded part of his initial  payment to him 
 which  is more than I wouldve  required it to do. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to take any further action in response to Mr As complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7764119