K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the information Equifax Limited has recorded about  him.
 
background
Equifax said in its final response  that itd reviewed  the third party  data that had appeared on 
Mr Hs credit report. Itd appeared due to similarities in the information for the third party and 
Mr H and as a mistake was made by its data matching system. Itd loaded a notice of 
disassociation to help remove it from Mr Hs credit report and apologised for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. It offered to pay Mr H £150  compensation  for this.
Mr H said this wasnt enough to compensate  him. He says he was caused a financial loss 
because of the incorrect information  on his credit file as financial institutions  havent offered 
him suitable interest rates and deals. He wants £5,000 damages for the financial loss, stress 
and distress caused. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Equifax has said that an error led to another individual  being  linked  to Mr Hs 
account. But that person had no adverse information  attached to them. Three credit  
quotations were carried  out by this person. But they wouldnt  have  caused  Mr H any 
financial loss as no information relating to the third party was showing. They were 
quotation searches  and wouldnt have  been available for lenders to see. This means 
Mr H wouldnt  have been disadvantaged  by them  in his credit  applications.
Mr H has a history  of arrears and now has a default on his record. These wouldve 
reflected negatively on his credit  file and its reasonable to assume they were the 
reason why he was refused credit when he applied. And some  other  credit  
applications Mr H says he made have different dates of birth on them. Mr H needs to 
be more careful making applications as he repeatedly applied for credit  with the 
incorrect date of birth.
Mr H complains about a third party being  incorrectly added to his credit file. But Mr H 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result and hes been adequately compensated by 
Equifax. She isnt recommending it should have to do anything more.
Mr H remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says he has been  
financially disadvantaged as the searches stopped him getting credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Some data about  a third party appeared linked to Mr H on his credit report. It appears likely 
that was due to a mistake made  by Equifaxs data matching system due similarities in the 
personal information for the third party  and Mr H.
Ref: DRN76703602Mr H says this information  caused him to be rejected for credit  when  he made a number of 
applications and he suffered financial loss as result. But I dont think  that was likely to be the 
case. Equifax  has explained that the third party data wasnt negative and because  it related 
to quotation searches the results wouldnt have  been seen by prospective lenders. In 
addition some applications made  by Mr H appear  to have included various incorrect  dates of 
birth for him.
I think Equifax has acted fairly by investigating  matters and issuing  a notice of 
disassociation. Its also offered Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused. 
I dont think Mr H hasnt demonstrated,  on balance, that the applications he made were 
declined solely because  of the information  on his record about the third party. And I dont 
think hes shown that he has been financially disadvantaged or suffered a financial loss as a 
result.
Mr H says he wants damages of £5,000. But I think that would be too much. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that Equifaxs offer of £150 compensation is fair for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr Hs suffered. And I dont think I can reasonably  ask it to pay any more.
I simply leave  it to Mr H to decide,  if he hasnt already done so, whether he wants to accept 
Equifaxs offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7670360