K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the failure  by Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  (Link)  to 
implement a payment  plan for two loan accounts. 
background
Underlying the two loan accounts are debts  under  credit cards originally issued by separate 
banks. The debts are now administered by Link. 
Mr H put in a written complaint to Link in April 2018. He complained  Link hadnt implemented 
a payment plan for reduced  payments,  which he thought  hed agreed  with Link in view of his 
impending retirement.  Unlike other creditors of Mr Hs who accepted  reduced payments,  Link 
appeared to ignore the payment  plan and issued arrears notices. 
Link didnt accept it had done anything wrong.  When we investigated Mr Hs complaint, Link 
said Mr H had failed to provide income and expenditure details, and that was why the 
payment plan hadnt gone ahead.
Our adjudicator found evidence, however, that Mr H had indeed provided Link with the 
requested income  and expenditure details, so she saw no reason why the payment plan 
shouldnt have been implemented. She asked if Link wanted to offer to settle  the complaint. 
Link offered to pay Mr H £100  and to reinstate the payment  plan. 
Mr H didnt accept the offer.  He referred to a lack of trust in Link and to legal  fees of around 
£600 that Link had added  to his account. And he challenged the legality of the underlying  
debts, saying in effect  that Link had no legal right to require him to repay  them. 
Our adjudicator therefore went ahead and came  to her conclusions on the complaint. She 
upheld the complaint about the payment  plan and recommended  Link should pay Mr H £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  and should implement the payment plan and 
rewind the account as if theyd implemented the payment plan on 1 March 2018.  This 
includes reversing any charges applied to the account as well as any adverse information on 
Mr Hs credit file as a result of not implementing the payment plan.
The adjudicator said Mr Hs arguments  about the enforceability of the debts hadnt formed 
part of his original  complaint to Link. Link hadnt agreed to the ombudsman  service dealing 
with the arguments as part of the current complaint. Mr H would therefore need to bring a 
separate complaint to Link about  those matters. 
Mr H didnt accept the adjudicators recommendations in settlement of his complaint. He 
referred again to the legal fees added to his account, and in particular to his legal and other 
arguments regarding  the enforceability of the debts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In summary, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for similar reasons:
There seems  to be common agreement,  and rightly so, that Link had no good reason 
not to implement the payment plan,  and it should have done so. Mr H provided the 
Ref: DRN71163952income and expenditure details that Link required. I too think  £200 is fair 
compensation for the worry and inconvenience Mr H has suffered as a result. 
Mr Hs arguments about the enforceability of the debts shouldnt  be dealt with as part 
of the present complaint.  If Mr H wishes to continue with them,  he must pursue them  
with Link separately.  I agree with what the adjudicator has said about this. 
In order to manage expectations, I should  point out that if Mr H brought  his complaint about  
enforceability to us, assuming Link didnt uphold his complaint on those grounds,  wed need 
to be satisfied (as always)  that the complaint was within our jurisdiction. Among other things,  
this means that the complaint would have had to be originally referred to us or, if there  is a 
written acknowledgement,  to Link within six years of the event(s) being complained of or, if 
later, within three years of when Mr H became aware or ought reasonably to have become 
aware he had cause for complaint.
As I understand it, Mr Hs arguments rest in part on legal  issues   on what are sometimes  
called technicalities.  The Financial Ombudsman Service  isnt a court of law and has no 
power to come to decisions about the legality  or lawfulness of legal documents. Nor do we 
have the power  to require Mr H or any other consumer  to do anything  (eg to pay a debt). At 
the heart of our approach  is to decide  what we think  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  It can sometimes be the case that if were  satisfied  on the 
balance of probabilities a consumer has borrowed a sum of money, we may decide  we dont 
think its unfair or unreasonable in all the circumstances that the consumer  should  be asked 
to repay  it with interest. 
On a point of detail,  the £550 appearing on an account statement refers  expressly  to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  case fee. There are no circumstances in which  that would be 
payable by Mr H. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  about  the payment plan, and I require Link Financial Outsourcing  
Limited to:
pay Mr H £200, and
treat the payment  plan as if it had been up and running since  1 March  2018. This 
includes removing any interest, any charges, and any adverse entries on Mr Hs 
credit file, that wouldnt have arisen if the payment plan had been implemented on 
Links side from 1 March 2018. 
Clearly, if Mr H hasnt  made or doesnt in the future  make any of the reduced payments as 
provided for under the payment plan,  that can be treated as arrears  in the usual way. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7116395