K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited  (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation  to a solar  
panel system he says was misrepresented  to him by the supplier.
Mr W is represented by a claims  management  company (the CMC).
background
In or around April 2014, Mr W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system  (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative  of P, Mr W decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In December 2016 the CMC made  a claim on Mr Ws behalf under s.75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr W to enter  into the contract  with P. The CMC said 
the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £6,000 to 
mislead Mr W  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £19,438.20; and
Mr W was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit  of £805 and this didnt take into 
account that after making his loan repayments Mr W had an actual annual  deficit of 
£739.25; and
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone; and
the system would  not cost him a penny; and,
he would  make savings on his electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  s.140A of the Act. It said there  was an unfair 
relationship between Mr W and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the s.75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided; a copy of a non-compliance 
hearing from the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC)  dated December
2013, copies of marketing material used by P, a job advert for P, the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook and some  of Mr Ws electricity bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr W or that there were  any other  reasons for the claim  to be upheld.  In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided  Mr W set out the expected  total returns from the system  
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made  it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there  would  be a cost involved; and
the contract clearly  shows  a year one total FIT of £560.81; and
the performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract; and
the system wouldnt increase Mr Ws electricity  consumption, and any increase in his 
electricity bills would be due to a change in lifestyle; and
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Mr W to it.
Ref: DRN73158532Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided  our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
W and found no reason  to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
Shawbrook responded to the initial complaint with a written contract and did not 
provide the electronic copy.  This would  indicate the electronic quotation has been 
generated purely as a mechanism to defend  the claim; and
The quote is unsigned which substantiates that Mr W has not seen a copy of this 
document; and
Mr W did not have the chance  to read and digest  the 61-page quotation.
It also suggested that we speak to Mr W for his recollection. When  our investigator  spoke to 
Mr W, he told us:
the salesman  followed  him to his sons football  game, and he signed the documents 
on the bonnet of his car; and
the salesman  attended his house numerous  times and was there 3 or 4 hours;  and
he couldnt remember what the sales representative told him the cost,  or the benefits 
of the panels would be; and
he felt pushed into buying the system.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s.56 and s.75 of the Act. Section 75 provides  
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the
debtor.
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan,  Shawbrook agrees that s.75 applies to 
this transaction.  This means  that Mr W could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor,  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by P in the same way he could have claimed against 
Ref: DRN73158533P, the supplier. So, Ive taken s.75 into account  when deciding  what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr W and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing him loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under
the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters
relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr Ws solar quote, titled  Your  Personal Solar  
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support  the alleged  
representations made  by P.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside  Mr Ws recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, CMC told us that Mr W didnt receive  or sign 
the quote. Shawbrook have provided  detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. 
This detailed  that Ps sales practice  was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers  
shortly after the initial  meeting  via email. Based on our experience  of what we have seen  
with similar  complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities,  P would have sent 
this document  to Mr W and I have  no reason  to doubt thats what  happened in this 
complaint. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ref: DRN73158534Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Mr W has alleged  that he was told his monthly  loan repayments would  be covered, or self-
funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what he says he was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page four of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr W could expect to receive by way 
of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr W could expect to receive 
a total income  in year one of £560.81  from his FIT.
The quote  goes  on to look at the electricity savings Mr W could expect  from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £244.19 and the combined  income  and savings in 
year one is shown as £805.00.  This is shown in a table titled Putting  it all together.
There is a page  titled system performance and returns with a series  of tables. Theres a 
section titled PSP scheme:  repayments options. This has three tables  set out over 60 
months, 120 months  and 180 months.  Ive focused  on the table for 120 months  this is the 
length of the loan that Mr W entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 
120 monthly payments of £80.73 due and compares the overall expected  grand  total from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr W could  expect  to receive  from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual  monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept  that the table doesnt  simply compare the FIT income to his monthly loan 
repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall income  he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover  his 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that his monthly  loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income  alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Mr W has said that the cost of the system  was documented  as £6,000.00. He has said that 
this was done to mislead him as this figure did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £19,438.20.
Two credit agreements were generated  by Shawbrook for Mr W. It appears  that there was 
an error with the first agreement which is why Shawbrook provided  an amended agreement 
a few days later. The first agreement set out the total amount payable  as £19,483.20  and 
180 monthly payments of £108.24. The second  agreement set out a total amount payable  as 
£9,688.80 and 120 monthly  payments of £80.74 
Ref: DRN73158535Shawbrook have provided the transaction  history which shows  a starting balance  of 
£9,688.80 and Mr W paying £80.74 a month. I think that this is sufficient to show  that the 
second agreement  was executed.
Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mr W makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£6,000. This is supported by the credit agreement  which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £6,000 and goes  on to show that the total amount  payable  would be £9,688.80.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £6,000, it would  cost Mr 
W more than this as he had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
I also cant agree that the total cost of the system is £19,438.20. I think  the credit agreement 
clearly sets out the total amount payable.
Ill now consider whether  P told Mr W that the system would not cost him a penny, and that 
he could expect to receive  a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £805.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr W was expected  to have made  a 
loss of £13.64 a month and in the second  year this would decrease  to a loss of £10.64 a 
month. It wouldnt  be until year six that the expected benefits would exceed  his monthly loan 
repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt  have  been until around  year nine that he 
would have sufficiently  recouped any previous annual losses and the system  would be 
paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start,  
and Im unable to conclude that Mr W was told that the system would not cost him a penny. 
I think the quote is clear  that there  would be a difference  between  his expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr W was told that hed receive  a year one benefit of £805.00 as this was 
the expected combined income  from FIT payments and electricity savings on his energy 
bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that Mr 
W was led to believe  that hed receive  this sum in his hand. Im satisfied that the quote 
makes it clear that hed have to make loan repayments and overall there  would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr W was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the ten-year 
loan term. The system  performance and returns  page  of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years.
This shows that by year ten the overall  benefits  that Mr W could  expect to receive  would 
have exceeded  the total amount  payable under his loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation  rate so Im satisfied that P made him aware  that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime.  
Ref: DRN73158536As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr W that the system would pay for itself by 
year ten, as supported by the table above.  If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr W. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,345.12 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in his energy bills, that Mr W could expect  to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should  generate  9.16 kWh of energy each  day. The closing 
meter reading on 8 June 2016 was 6,726.18 kWh which  equates to 9.35 kWh a day. This is 
slightly more than the point of sale estimations.
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr W to be close to recouping any initial  losses  from the 
system and for it to be paying  for itself. Mr W has said that this isnt the case  so Ive gone on 
to consider whether P have overstated the potential  income and savings Mr W could expect 
to receive by, for example  using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr W was personalised to his specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate  the income and benefits he could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy  generated by the system that Mr 
W would use rather than buying  it from his energy provider, therefore leading  to savings on 
his energy bills and the expected increase in utility  prices alongside the expected  annual  
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were  based on the 
Office of National Statistics  (ONS) data between 2004 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Mr W was expected  to use, or self-consume, 50% of the kWh 
generated by the system  each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual  saving of 
£244.19. This amount of saving would  increase  each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.  It is my view that a self-consumption rate of 50%, the 
amount Mr W could  save on his electricity bills, would be fair basis for calculating  the 
benefits of a particular system.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr W was expected  to self-consume were 
both reasonable  assumptions for P to have  made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr W could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information  from the ONS. The figure  used for energy price increases was 8.5% 
and for RPI was 2.72%.  Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased  in line with the estimates  
Ref: DRN73158537provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests  that energy prices  have  increased  by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions  used by P and in 
my view explain why Mr W isnt receiving the financial  returns  from the system that he may 
have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2004 to 2014. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the 
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year 
ten. Although  I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by the financial returns from his system, 
Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when he entered into 
the contract  for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along  
with the findings of the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel  
hearing from December  2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr W, or that it relates to the time his panels were sold.  Whilst it does 
refer to the system  paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr Ws personalised quote. 
And, as I have explained above, at the time Mr W entered into the contract with P Im 
satisfied that his system  would have been self-funding and pay for itself by year ten from 
installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  before  Mr W entered  
into the contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from Trading Standards, 
setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve  Ps sales process. 
This work included Trading Standards  helping P to enhance their business  paperwork and 
documentation to ensure  compliance with the relevant legislation.  This has ultimately led to 
P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ps sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mr W entering into the contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  along  with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Ref: DRN73158538Mr W raised some concerns about  Ps sales process, said that he was pressured into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement.
Based on the available evidence that has been  provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured  and taking account of the overall  cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont  think the length of the meeting with P at Mr Ws 
home was unreasonable.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were  no untrue statements  of fact made by P that induced Mr W to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other  reason to uphold this
complaint.  I understand Mr W is likely to be disappointed with my conclusion, but I must 
assure him that Ive considered impartially.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Shawbrook  Bank  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7315853