K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
background
In November 1991 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage was in 
two parts  but totalled £77,000.  Mr and Mrs M did not take out PPI with the mortgage.
In October  1994 Mr and Mrs M took a further advance  of just over £13,000,  again  they did 
not take a PPI policy to cover the repayments.
In May 1995  Mr and Mrs M applied  for another further advance of £10,000 to be repaid over 
11 years  and 6 months. This time they were  sold a PPI policy that covered just the further 
advance repayments.  The policy  covered  Mr M only and covered him against not being able 
to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of Mr M making a 
successful claim  the policy could have paid a benefit  for up to 24 months. 
In 2016 Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide about the sale of the PPI. Nationwide said 
the policy had not been mis-sold. But Nationwide did note that due to an administration error 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy was not cancelled in 2003  when  the further advance was cleared.    
So Mr and Mrs M continued  to pay premiums. Nationwide offered to refund the premiums  
they paid after the further advance was cleared, plus compensatory interest. I understand 
Mr and Mrs M accepted this offer.
But Mr and Mrs M still feel the PPI itself was mis-sold. They say Nationwide added  the policy 
to the further advance  without their knowledge.  An adjudicator  from this service didnt think 
the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
In September  2019 I issued my provisional findings  on this complaint and invited both parties 
to comment and send  me any additional evidence they wanted  me to think  about. A copy  of 
my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, my 
main reasons were:
Mr and Mrs M said the PPI had been  added to the mortgage without their knowledge.
The further advance  application form had been  completed electronically. Although 
the form recorded that Mr and Mrs M wanted to take out PPI on the further advance  it 
also recorded that the main mortgage was already  covered which it wasnt.  I thought 
this showed that Mr and Mrs M may not have been  given a fair opportunity  to review 
the form before signing it.
I thought it odd that Mr and Mrs M would choose  to cover the further  advance  with 
PPI having declined to cover  the main mortgage.
The payments  for the PPI were  taken with the main  mortgage repayment and 
continued even  after the further  advance was repaid. I thought  this to be an indication 
that Mr and Mrs M may not have been aware  of the policy.
Ref: DRN79278322I also thought  it unlikely that Nationwide  had gave Mr and Mrs M clear information  
about the policy.  
The policy covered  Mr M only and he was self-employed at the time of the sale. This 
meant he wouldnt receive any employer sick pay if he became too unwell to work,  or 
any redundancy pay if he became unemployed. So his income would reduce quickly  
if things went wrong.  But the policy sold to Mr M by Nationwide  had a 90 day deferral 
period. This meant Mr M would have  to wait for three months  before  he received any 
payment. This was an important feature of the policy  and from what Ive seen I dont 
think Nationwide likely  brought it to Mr Ms attention clearly. If it had done so I dont 
think Mr M, as a self-employed person would have bought the policy.
I said I was intending  to uphold the complaint  and set out what I thought  Nationwide  needed 
to do to put things  right.
Mr and Mrs M have  not sent in any further evidence or comments for me to consider.
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Nationwide has said that the further  advance form was not necessarily completed incorrectly  
as Mr and Mrs M may have had separate  cover for the main mortgage.  But I havent seen 
any evidence of that being  the case. In my view the original application  form, where 
available, is strong  evidence of the PPI having  been  discussed where it has been completed  
properly. In this case  I dont think it has been  completed accurately and it follows  that I cant  
be sure it is a reliable record that Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice about how it was 
completed. 
Nationwide has also said it would be Mr and Mrs Ms choice not to review  the form before 
signing it. But in my view it would be good  practice  for the Nationwide  representative  to have 
reviewed the form with Mr and Mrs M after printing it off and asking for their signatures.
I remain of the view that it is unusual that Mr and Mrs M bought  PPI cover for the further 
advance but not for the main mortgage  and a previous further  advance. Nationwide  has 
again pointed  to the application form and that it gave the option to cover  only the further 
advance. It says its representative would  have explained the importance of covering the 
whole mortgage.  But Ive not seen  any persuasive  evidence that Mr and Mrs M had 
alternative cover for the rest of the mortgage and it seems to me that if they wished to 
protect their borrowing its likely theyd have chosen  to protect  more  than the 15% which the 
further advance  represented.
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs M were given at the meeting  but I do accept that 
some documents including the mortgage offer mentioned  the PPI and Nationwide  have said 
that these show  Mr and Mrs M were aware of the policy. But I note the further advance was 
cleared in early  2003 and Nationwide continued to take premiums  for the PPI which  were  
Ref: DRN79278323included in the main monthly mortgage repayment until October  2004  which  adds weight to 
Mr and Mrs Ms testimony that they were not aware of the policy.
While I have noted Nationwides  comments and accept that its possible Mr and Mrs M were 
made aware  of the PPI and wanted to cover  only the additional borrowing. But after taking 
into account Mr and Mrs Ms testimony  and weighing up the evidence available I think it is 
more likely they were not given a fair choice.
But even if I did think it likely that Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice Id still uphold  this 
complaint. Thats because I think that if Mr and Mrs M had been clearly  told about the 
policys 90 day deferral period, they wouldnt have  bought it.
In Nationwides  submissions to this service  it said both Mr and Mrs Ms inco mes were  
considered in assessing the affordability of the mortgage, relying on one income would have 
put financial strain on the household income. 
As Mr M was self-employed he would not have received any employee sick pay or 
redundancy pay if he became unemployed. But the policy sold to him by Nationwide  would 
not have paid out for three months by which time I think  there would have likely been a strain 
on the household income.    
I think Mr M would have  expected the policy to pay a benefit sooner than 90 days.  
Nationwide has said it would have provided  a leaflet  at the time of the sale which  stated 
clearly the waiting period. I dont know if the leaflet was given to Mr and Mrs M in good time 
for them to read before agreeing to the policy. But even  if it was I dont think the 90 day 
waiting period is clearly  set out within it.
I have carefully considered Nationwides response to my provisional findings.  But in 
summary it remains  my view that the policy was mis-sold. 
putting things right
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. So Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.    
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  
Nationwide Building Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount 
it owes them.  
I understand Nationwide has already paid some  of the cost of the PPI to                  
Mr and Mrs M already. If this is the case it can take off this amount from the total it 
owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN79278324my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint and direct  Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy in 1995.
background
In November 1991 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Nationwide.  The mortgage was in two 
parts but totalled £77,000. Mr and Mrs M did not take out PPI with the mortgage.
In October 1994 Mr and Mrs M took a further advance of just over £13,000, again  they did not take a 
PPI policy  to cover  the repayments.
In May 1995  Mr and Mrs M applied  for another further advance of £10,000 to be repaid over 11 years 
and 6 months. This time they were  sold a PPI policy that covered just the further advance  
repayments. The policy covered Mr M only and covered  him against not being  able to work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of Mr M making a successful claim  the policy  could 
have paid a benefit for up to 24 months. 
In 2016 Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide  about the sale of the PPI. Nationwide said the policy 
had not been mis-sold.  But Nationwide  did note that due to an administration error  Mr and Mrs Ms 
Ref: DRN79278325policy was not cancelled in 2003 when the further advance was cleared.  So Mr and Mrs M continued  
to pay premiums. Nationwide offered to refund the premiums they paid after the further advance  was 
cleared, plus compensatory interest. I understand Mr and Mrs M accepted this offer.
But Mr and Mrs M still feel the PPI itself was mis-sold. They say Nationwide added  the policy to the 
further advance without their knowledge. An adjudicator  from this service  didnt think  the PPI was mis-
sold. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  findings,  so the complaint has been passed  to 
me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide has been able to show us a copy of the further advance application form from 1995. It is a 
six page  document that has mostly  been completed electronically. On page five there is a question,  
Do you want to cover  your Home Improver loan with Mortgage Payment  Cover (PPI)?  Beside this 
question is a printed Yes.
But below this question  is another  which  says Is your current mortgage covered by a payment 
protection policy? Beside this question  is another Yes. This appears to have been completed 
incorrectly which suggests  to me that Mr and Mrs M may not have reviewed  the answers  given on 
page five of the application  before being asked to sign on page  six.
Mr and Mrs M were  borrowing an additional £10,000. This would represent around 15% of the total 
borrowing secured on their home. So it seems  curious they would choose to protect only 15% of their 
secured borrowing while leaving the other 85% unsecured.
I also note that when the further advance was cleared in 2003, the PPI premiums continued to be 
taken with the main  mortgage repayments for some time. If Mr and Mrs M had been aware  of the 
policy I think  they would have cancelled the payments  when the further advance ended.
While I accept  its likely some documents would have been sent to Mr and Mrs M by post, after 
weighing everything up I cant say its most likely  Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice about taking 
out the policy.
I could uphold the complaint on this point only. But I have another concern.
The policy covered Mr M only and he was self-employed at the time of the sale.  This meant he 
wouldnt receive any employer  sick pay if he became too unwell to work, or any redundancy pay if he 
became unemployed.  So his income would  reduce quickly if things went  wrong.  But the policy sold to 
Mr M by Nationwide had a 90 day deferral  period. This meant  Mr M would  have to wait for three 
months before he received  any payment.  This was an important feature of the policy  and from what 
Ive seen I dont think Nationwide likely brought it to Mr Ms attention clearly. If it had done so I dont 
think Mr M, as a self-employed person  would have bought the policy.
So Im currently  intending  to find the policy was mis-sold,  which means Nationwide  needs to do 
something to put things  right
  
Ref: DRN79278326putting things  right
Nationwide Building Society should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. So Nationwide  Building Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Nationwide Building Society 
can take off what they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
I understand Nationwide has already paid some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M 
already. If this is the case it can take off this amount from the total it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide Building Society must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off 
if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr and 
Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7927832