K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund  them money taken out of their 
account using  an ATM. They say they didnt withdraw the money.
While the account  is a joint one, weve been  dealing with Mr A on this complaint. So, for 
ease, Ill refer mostly to him.
background
Times are important in this complaint. Unless noted otherwise, everything I mention 
happened on 5 November 2018.
Mr A got a text from Barclays close to midday  to say his account  was overdrawn. He 
checked his account using his mobile banking and saw two withdrawals of cash  from ATMs  
around 7.00 am. Mr A says he didnt know anything about these  so he checked with his 
wife. Mrs A said she hadnt made the withdrawals either.
After Mr A complained to Barclays,  the bank said it wouldnt refund the money  from the two 
withdrawals. This was because its records showed  Mr As genuine debit card had been  used  
and the correct PIN had been  entered. As Mr A had said hed always  had his card with him it 
didnt seem likely somebody  had been able to take his card, guess the PIN and then return  
the card to Mr A without him realising.
Mr A wasnt  happy with Barclays response. So he contacted us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint. But she didnt think Barclays 
should refund the money either. She checked  Barclays records and was satisfied Mr As 
genuine card had been used and the correct  PIN entered. So that meant somebody must 
have been able to take Mr As card, use it and then return  it to him, without Mr A knowing. 
That didnt seem very likely.
Mr A confirmed both Mrs A and their son knew the PIN for his card. But he was clear neither 
of them  would have  used his card to make the two withdrawals in question. And  in any 
event  neither  of them had access to Mr As card at the time.
While Mr A had earlier  said his card was in his wallet by the side of his bed, hed later 
confirmed the card was kept in a very secure  place. So this would  make  it almost impossible 
for anybody  other than Mr A to use it.
The ATM used to make  the withdrawals is close to where Mr A used to live (hes  moved  
since the withdrawals  were made). But he was clear he didnt go anywhere near the location.  
And hed been  asleep  at the time.  He doesnt get up until around 7.40 am.
The investigator also looked at the banks records for Mr and Mrs As use of mobile banking.  
Those records showed Mr As mobile phone had been used  to log into his mobile banking 
around 6.00 am that day. Mr A was adamant hed been asleep at the time. But the 
investigator noted Mr A had previously quite often checked his banking  position early in the 
day. And it seemed likely Mr A would do so on this day as it was when a regular payment 
was expected into the account.
Ref: DRN78225992Mr A said he hadnt used his mobile banking before getting the text from Barclays.  He was 
clear nobody knew the passcode necessary to access his mobile  banking.
The investigator considered it was possible Mr A, Mrs A or their son could have made the 
withdrawals. Mr As card was used  and that was always in his possession. Mrs A might 
have used Mr As card without him using it  but as its a joint account, Barclays would still 
be able to hold them responsible for the withdrawals.
It seemed very unlikely  Mr As son would have made the withdrawals  as he didnt have any 
knowledge of the regular  payment going into the account. So the chances of a one-off use 
of the card on this particular day were remote as well. So, the investigator  thought  it was 
most likely Mr A had made the withdrawals himself   or authorised somebody else to do so. 
And in concluding that Mr A had most likely authorised the spending, the investigator  had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
Mr A didnt agree with what  the investigator  said. So the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to our investigator (and to Barclays). And thats  not surprising. There isnt a great deal 
of money in Mr and Mrs As account at any one time. And these two withdrawals took out 
about half of the balance  at the time. So theyre bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr and Mrs A that I agree  with the investigator. Barclays doesnt 
have to refund the money taken out of their account.  Indeed, there isnt a great deal I can 
add to what shes already said. I think the investigators set out in some detail the various  
things shes had to consider.
That said,  its important I reassure Mr and Mrs A that Ive considered their complaint afresh 
and independently of what the investigator  has done.
Ive looked at Barclays records. And they show Mr As genuine card was used  and the PIN 
was entered correctly. Mr A has said his wife and son knew  his PIN  but would only use the 
card in case of an emergency.  Given Mr A has described how securely his card was kept,  
its difficult to see how somebody other  than him could have withdrawn the money.
Im satisfied the banks  records also show Mr As mobile banking  was accessed around  6.00 
am on the day. Mr A says he was asleep  at the time.  And hes also adamant  nobody else 
knows the passcode  for accessing his mobile banking.  But using his mobile banking  fairly 
early in the morning  was something Mr A had previously  done quite often. So, on balance, 
I think Mr A probably did check his account at that time.
Ref: DRN78225993That further supports  the position  that Mr A had his card around  one hour before the 
withdrawals were made. And, as Ive said earlier, given how Mr A has described how 
securely his card was kept, its hard to see somebody else getting access to it and returning 
it by 7.40 am when  Mr A says he would be waking up.
Ive considered Barclays records not only in respect  of the two withdrawals that Mr A says 
he didnt make. Ive looked at how Mr A has accessed and used the account over a period of 
time before and after the disputed withdrawals.  Theres nothing  in my research to indicate 
the two withdrawals were  particularly out of the ordinary.
All of the available evidence points to it being  most  likely that Mr A withdrew  the money from 
the ATM himself.  I realise thats  a difficult message  to give. But, Im satisfied Barclays 
records are correct. And Mr As statement  about his mobile banking  and the card not being  
able to be used  by anybody else means  its hard to reach any other conclusion.
Last, like the investigator, Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the 
guidance of the Financial  Conduct Authority, around authorisation of spending. And, on this 
occasion, Im satisfied Barclays can hold Mr A responsible for it.
I realise Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed  with my decision. But it brings  to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve  their dispute  with Barclays  informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr and Mrs A any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822599