K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc forced them  to take a decreasing  term life 
assurance policy as a condition of granting  them a mortgage.
background
Mrs Z has brought this complaint on behalf  of them both.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs Z took out a mortgage  with HSBC for a total of £215,000 on a capital 
repayment basis for a term of 25 years.  The sale of the actual mortgage isnt relevant  to this 
decision but for completeness the borrowing had two elements - £180,000  on a fixed rate 
basis, and £35,000  on standard variable rate. The couple met with an advisor who assessed 
their protection needs. She recommended  they take a term assurance policy for the amount 
and term of the mortgage which would  pay off the outstanding  balance,  should one of them 
pass away during  the term. 
In 2006 they wished to release equity from their property to carry out home improvements, 
so made  an application to borrow  a further  £44,000. HSBC  considered  the application but 
would only lend them  £10,000. The mortgage  protection was also increased to support the 
borrowing. But unfortunately it was increased by the amount  theyd originally applied  for and 
not the amount they actually borrowed.  The mortgage was paid off in 2014  at which  point 
Mr Z cancelled the policy. As it was a joint policy HSBC required Mrs Z to agree to the 
cancellation which she did, and a premium refund of £31.87 was returned  to them.
In 2018 Mrs Z complained  to HSBC about  a PPI policy. She said it was mis-sold  as they 
were told it was a condition of the mortgage.   If theyd known the policy  was optional they 
wouldnt have taken  it. They both work  for a family business so their employment is secure 
and family  would step in to cover the mortgage should that have been necessary. 
HSBC explained  the policy theyd cancelled was mortgage protection  not PPI. And it 
provided evidence  that while the cover had been recommended,  it was optional  and theyd 
been given cancellation rights if they decided they didnt want to proceed with it. But when 
reviewing the complaint  HSBC saw Mr and Mrs Z had been  over-insured as the policy  cover  
was larger  than the sum theyd borrowed. So it partially upheld  the complaint and offered a 
refund of the additional premiums the couple  had paid, plus 8% simple interest. This worked 
out as £343.56 after the deduction of tax. Mrs Z didnt accept this offer as she was sure 
theyd been told the policy was a condition of the mortgage. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.  She firstly obtained confirmation from 
HSBC that it consented to us looking into it, as the sale of both policies had taken place 
more than six years before Mrs Z complained. But having  reviewed  the mortgage 
documentation which  Mr and Mrs Z had signed she was unable to uphold the complaint. 
She felt it clearly stated  the only compulsory insurance was buildings  insurance,  and even  
that didnt need to be purchased from HSBC.  Plus Mr and Mrs Z were given cancellation 
rights which they hadnt exercised, which suggested the policy wasnt a condition  of the 
mortgage. 
She also thought  the recommendation for decreasing term assurance  to cover their 
outstanding mortgage was sensible, as it may not be possible for family members  to take 
responsibility for a mortgage. But she agreed  Mr and Mrs Z should  only have been charged 
Ref: DRN71094772a premium based on the borrowing they actually took, not the larger amount they applied  for. 
So she thought the offer of redress made by HSBC was fair. 
Mrs Z disagreed. She said several HSBC bank  managers personally  knew her father  and 
herself, and were aware of their assets. She thought  HSBC  was being deceitful,  as she had 
been told the policy was a pre-requisite for the mortgage. So the case has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. 
Let me explain why.
Firstly theres  no dispute Mr and Mrs Z didnt have a Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) 
policy which  would cover the monthly  mortgage repayments in certain  circumstances. They 
had a mortgage protection policy, which is a decreasing term life assurance  policy  designed 
to cover the entire  outstanding mortgage  balance on the death of one of the parties. 
the 2004 sale
Ive seen copies  of the application forms and documentation from December 2004 when 
Mr and Mrs Z took out their original mortgage. I can see the advisor  completed  an 
application form recommending  life cover  to protect the mortgage for the term. She also 
recommended critical illness cover should  either  party be unable  to work through serious 
illness, but Mr and Mrs Z didnt want this. In the same application form, the boxes relating to 
buildings and contents insurance were  also ticked to show  Mr and Mrs Z wished to purchase 
HSBC policies, but the form says they could obtain cover elsewhere.
Ive also looked  at both mortgage  offer letters.  One is dated  25 November 2004 for £35,000  
and the other dated 3 December 2004 for £180,000. In each, the first page advises 
Mr and Mrs Z to read it through carefully and then sign to accept it. Each  offer was valid for a 
month so they had time to do so. I can see on page 5 (of 8) under the heading Insurance 
you must take out through  HSBC it says You are not required to take out any insurance 
through HSBC .  And then under  the heading Insurance you must take out as a condition of 
the mortgage but that you do not have to take out through HSBC  it says Buildings 
Insurance (see separate Home Cover quotation ). Mr and Mrs Z signed  to accept the 
£35,000 offer on 29 November  2004  and the £180,000 offer on 8 December 2004. 
Mrs Z has provided  no evidence the policy was a condition  of the borrowing, other  than her 
recollections. HSBC has provided  scanned copies  of the documentation which was provided 
to Mr and Mrs Z at the time, and the forms which they signed.  Its not general  practice  to 
record face to face meetings, so the forms completed at the time are usually the only record  
of such meetings. I dont  find it surprising  theres a discrepancy with Mrs Zs recollection  of 
events which  took place almost 15 years  ago. 
So while I cant make  a finding on what Mr and Mrs Z were told by the advisor, I think  if they 
had read the offer letters  carefully they would have  known  the mortgage  protection policy 
wasnt a condition of the mortgage.  And although HSBC,  in line with industry  practice, 
required the property  against which the borrowing  was secured to be insured, the buildings 
insurance policy just had to be in place,  it didnt have to be purchased  from HSBC.  
Mr and Mrs Z had no dependents at the time, and say they had access to family resources 
which would cover the mortgage if one of them passed away  or became seriously  ill during 
Ref: DRN71094773the term. But Ive seen nothing which suggests  this was recorded  by the advisor during the 
meeting. In any case, I cant say this means  Mr and Mrs Z didnt  need  life cover. I dont think 
its certain that family members could commit to repay a substantial  mortgage. And peoples 
financial circumstances can change over the lifetime of a mortgage. As could the financial 
health of the business  they both worked for, which was likely to be impacted if one of them 
passed away. 
When the policy documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs Z in early 2005  when  the mortgage 
completed, they were given cancellation rights.  So they were able to read the policy through  
and decide whether they wished to go ahead  with it. I think  its unlikely cancellation rights 
would have been offered  on a product which was a compulsory requirement to obtain the 
mortgage. And Mr and Mrs Z didnt cancel  the policy until 2014.  So Im not persuaded HSBC 
did anything wrong  with regard to the sale of the policy in 2004.
the 2006 policy top up
In 2006 Mr and Mrs Z wished to build  an extension to their property so they applied,  through  
a different advisor,  for a further advance of £44,000. But HSBC  would only lend them an 
additional £10,000. I think it was prudent to increase  the life cover  to reflect the increased  
borrowing. But there was no need  to increase the sum assured more than the total amount 
being borrowed. I say this as its likely  if Mr or Mrs Z were to pass  away  the policy would pay 
out the outstanding  balance of the mortgage  at the time. 
I can see from the application form to increase the mortgage protection cover  Mr and Mrs Z 
were asked if their employer provided  sick pay or income protection  and whether  they had 
mortgage protection. I take this question  to mean  in relation  to this new borrowing as the 
policy was described  as a top up. Mr and Mrs Z answered no to all three questions.  Ive 
seen no evidence Mr and Mrs Z told HSBC  they could rely on family members  should the 
need arise.  And indeed  they had chosen  to increase their mortgage  to fund their home 
improvements, rather than turn to their family  for financial assistance. 
The mortgage offer letter  for the further  advance also contained wording making clear they 
were not required  to take out any insurance  through HSBC.  
Ive also seen a letter from November 2006 from the HSBC mortgage arranger to 
Mr and Mrs Z which says,  while reviewing  the file you have a shortfall for the whole  of your 
mortgage borrowing  for critical illness and then it goes on to say I have  made you aware  
that your existing mortgage borrowing  at present is £207,611 and your existing life cover  is 
£212,850 which means you have a surplus of £5,239.  So I think  in 2006 Mr and Mrs Z were  
aware they had life cover, and that they were over-insured. But it doesnt appear they 
queried this at the time, or when they cancelled the policy  in 2014 when the mortgage was 
repaid.
So while Ive said it was sensible  to increase the life cover to match  the borrowing, HSBC did 
charge Mr and Mrs Z too much for the top up policy.  So I think  HSBC should recalculate  the 
premiums, based on the amount they actually borrowed, rather  than the increased amount 
theyd applied for. 
HSBC has offered Mr and Mrs Z a refund of the additional premiums  paid,  which according 
to their actuarial  department was £3.33 per month for 81 months.  Theyve also added 8% 
simple interest in line with our guidance,  and deducted 20% basic  rate tax of £14.77,  making 
Ref: DRN71094774total redress of £343.56.  I think this offer is fair and I wont  be asking HSBC to do anything 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint in the sense the offer made 
by HSBC UK Bank Plc in its final response letter is fair. I leave it to Mr and Mrs Z to decide if 
they now wish to accept  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7109477