K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained about the way British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) dealt with a claim she made on her home 
emergency policy and because she says it failed to repair 
damage caused by its engineer. 
All references to BG include its agents. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this 
month. An extract follows:
In June 2018 Mrs C made a claim  to BG so it could investigate 
some leaking  pipes at her property. One of BGs engineers 
attended the property and Mrs C asked him to look at three 
separate taps that had been  dripping.  
Mrs C said the engineer broke  her bathroom sink while he was 
replacing the taps. She said he also tried to replace  the 
stopcock but it also broke and left without completing the work.
She said before she realised  the engineer had broken the sink, 
he asked her daughter to sign a blank form saying this was to 
confirm hed been  there. Mrs C said he later wrote on the form 
saying that there  was a risk the sink would crack- but this was 
after hed broken it. Mrs C said the engineer told her hed come 
back and replace  the sink if she was prepared to buy a new 
one which she reluctantly agreed  to. But he didnt come back  to 
do this work. 
Mrs C has told us that she is disabled and suffers  from a 
number of medical conditions.  She says she needs  to have a 
working sink and that she relies on it heavily because of her 
disability and other conditions.
Ref: DRN73814392Mrs C complained to BG and reported some further leaks a few 
days later which  BG repaired. Also an engineer came to her 
house around ten days after the first engineer and completed 
all the remaining repairs apart from the sink. She said he told 
her he couldnt touch  the sink as it was the subject of a 
complaint. 
BG initially rejected Mrs Cs complaint.  It said Mrs Cs daughter 
had signed  a form confirming  that the engineer had warned her 
the sink might crack because of its age before going  ahead with 
the work. BG said Mrs C agreed for the work to go ahead 
regardless. But it offered £30 for the delays in investigating the 
complaint. 
Mrs C wasnt happy and complained to us. Our investigator  
initially upheld  the complaint in full. He said the BG engineer  
had completed the form incorrectly by selecting the wrong 
disclaimer box. He said this showed he didnt adequately 
explain the risks of the sink cracking before he did the work.  He 
also said because Mrs C relies on the sink so much he found it 
unlikely that she would  agree to the work going ahead. He said 
BG should replace the sink, the taps and pay Mrs C £150  for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
BG still didnt agree it was responsible for the sink but agreed  
to replace the taps and pay the compensation. BG later agreed 
to pay for a new sink to be fitted if Mrs C were to pay for the 
sink. Both parties  agreed  and BG provided a quote for £108 
which Mrs C didnt agree to. She said the shape and type of 
sink wasnt suitable and found an alternative sink herself.  Our 
investigator provided this information to BG but it didnt 
respond. 
As the complaint hasnt  been  resolved it has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN73814393my provisional findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
As BG agreed to replace the taps I dont think I need to deal 
with this issue in my decision. But I will look at the amount of 
compensation to be awarded and also the issue  of the sink.
did the engineer warn Mrs C and her daughter before the sink 
became damaged?
The parties  disagree on whether the engineer warned  Mrs C 
the sink would crack before  or after he broke it. Each has 
provided their own evidence which  I need to consider  in order  
to decide whats  more likely  to have happened. 
Mrs Cs evidence
Twenty days after the first engineers visit, which led to the sink 
being damaged, Mrs C wrote a six page letter of complaint  to 
BG detailing what  she says happened  that day and also during 
the other  two visits. She also provided photos of the damaged 
sink and stopcock. 
In her letter Mrs C said she was at the property with her 
daughter. She said they watched  the engineer  try to repair  the 
dripping bathroom sink taps. She said the engineer told her 
hed have to replace the taps and the stopcock and brought  a 
pipe from his van in order to do so. At that point,  Mrs C says, 
he told her and her daughter  that they didnt have to watch  so 
they went into another room. 
Mrs C says the engineer  then came out of the bathroom and 
asked her daughter to sign a blank form saying this was to 
Ref: DRN73814394confirm hed been  there. She says they had no reason  to be 
suspicious so she did. Mrs C said the engineer then told them 
he wasnt personally responsible for any damage and went 
outside to call someone. She says this made  her suspicious so 
she checked and saw that the sink and stopcock had been 
damaged and both taps were  missing. 
According to Mrs C, the engineer wrote on the form that the 
sink might  crack  but this wasnt there when her daughter signed 
it. She said the phone number on the completed form is their 
old home number which they havent used since 2014. And if 
the form had been completed  before her daughter signed it, 
she wouldve updated the number. 
Mrs Cs daughter has largely  corroborated what  her mother has 
told us. 
BGs evidence
Ive looked at BGs notes and the form completed  by the 
engineer. 
As I said above, there is a disagreement as to what  information 
was on the form when it was signed. On the one hand, its 
unclear as to why Mrs Cs daughter would sign a blank form. 
On the other, the engineer ticked the wrong disclaimer  box- the 
one about potential damage  to bath panels,  tiles and boxing- 
instead of the one about taps.  So, it is also arguable  that he 
didnt properly explain the risks to Mrs C. But the form does  
also say that the sink might crack when replacing the taps 
though Mrs C says this was also added later. She says if the 
form had been filled in when her daughter signed  it, she 
wouldve replaced their old phone number with the new one. I 
think either sides explanation is equally plausible and for that 
reason I dont  think I can take the form into account when 
deciding whats likely to have  happened.   
Ref: DRN73814395After Mrs C complained, BG went back to the engineer  who 
said he did the work after the form was signed and repeated 
that hed warned  Mrs C the sink might break. The engineer also 
said he was shocked by Mrs Cs and her daughters  behaviour 
towards him because they took the form from his bag and 
wouldnt give it back. From what Ive seen, Mrs C doesnt deny  
she took the form from the engineer. She says this was after 
she realised  hed written something  on it but it seems she later 
gave it back.
Ive compared  the level of detail in the letters provided to us by 
Mrs C and subsequently her daughter  to the evidence provided 
by BGs engineer. Mrs C and her daughters evidence contains 
the most amount  of detail. Theyve also been consistent in what  
they told BG and us throughout the claim and complaint. 
Whereas BG has only provided a brief explanation of what its 
engineer said happened.  Based on this, it seems to me that 
Mrs C and her daughter have  a better  recollection of what took 
place that day. Also as our investigator said I think its unlikely 
Mrs C wouldve agreed for the work  to go ahead if, as she says, 
she is so reliant  on the sink. At least not without sourcing  a new 
sink first. For these  reasons, on balance, I dont think that the 
engineer explained there  was a risk the sink would  break 
before he broke  it. So I think its more likely than not that Mrs C 
wasnt aware of that risk when she agreed for the engineer to 
replace the taps.  
should BG provide a replacement sink?
Mrs C had two other  BG engineers  visit her shortly after the first 
one. She said she found them  both pleasant and that they were 
able to complete the necessary  repairs during their visit- which 
BG doesnt  deny. 
The third engineer finished  the work  the first engineer had been 
asked to do. From what Ive seen,  he did so within a short 
Ref: DRN73814396space of time and didnt really  explain why the work wasnt 
completed by the first engineer. I understand he was able to 
replace the stopcock and the leaking fresh  water pipe in the 
bathroom and also the kitchen tap. Mrs C said the third 
engineer also said the first engineer  fitted the wrong pipe on the 
stopcock which led to a leak. She said he told them  the first 
engineer confused imperial with metric.  I find this credible as I 
think its unlikely someone whos  not a professional 
engineer/plumber, like Mrs C, wouldve come up with this 
terminology themselves. Also the fact that the third engineer 
seems to have replaced that same pipe- which  BGs notes say 
was unfortunately still leaking-  suggests to me that the first 
engineer fitted  the wrong pipe.  
So, I cant see why the repairs  werent completed during  the 
first visit. BG has provided  no reason  for this. And bearing in 
mind the work  required doesnt seem to have  been impossible 
to put right in one visit (as demonstrated  by the third engineer)  I 
think, on balance,  the work  done  by the first engineer  was poor. 
And I think its more likely than not that the damage caused  to 
the sink was down to the engineer rather than due to the sinks 
age. But even if I didnt,  as I also think the engineer damaged  
the sink without explaining the risks to Mrs C and her daughter, 
I think BG should  be responsible  for the installation  of a new 
sink as well as the taps. And I think BG should  pay for a new 
like-for-like sink.  
distress and inconvenience
I note Mrs C has been without  a bathroom sink for six months. 
She said she is disabled  and suffers from conditions that mean 
she relies on the sink more than others. I have no reason to 
doubt this and note Mrs C has consistently told us and BG 
about her conditions and how much she relies  on the sink. She 
says shes had to use bowls  and jugs instead. Bearing  in mind 
that I think BG is responsible for damaging the sink I think it 
Ref: DRN73814397should pay Mrs C compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience being without a sink has caused her. Our 
investigator suggested £150  but I think £300 is more 
appropriate especially  since Mrs C has been without a sink for 
a longer time than when he considered the complaint.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons above Im considering upholding  this complaint  
and requiring  British Gas Insurance  Limited to do the following:
Pay for and install  a new like for like bathroom sink and taps 
for Mrs C including providing all the necessary  pipes, 
connections and anything else required to get the sink to 
work. I note Mrs C has asked that the new sink has a mixer 
tap rather than two separate ones.  If there is no additional 
cost to this I think British Gas should provide this. If there is 
an additional  cost it must inform Mrs C to see if she is 
prepared to pay the difference. 
It must also dispose of the old sink and taps,  pipes and 
anything else no longer required,  free of charge.  
Pay Mrs C £300  for the distress and inconvenience it caused  
her.
developments
The parties  had until 18 January 2019  to respond to my 
provisional decision. BG hadnt  responded by the deadline. Mrs 
C made a number of comments including the following:
She asked that I give BG a deadline by which to comply with 
my final decision  so that there are no more  delays. 
Shed like the opportunity to approve the sink before BG 
arranges for it to be fitted.
Shed like BG to use an alternative engineer  as she doesnt 
want to deal with the same company  as before. 
Ref: DRN73814398Shed like to be given the engineers available  dates in 
advance so she can arrange for her daughter to be there  
during the appointment. 
She will also be happy to have  two taps instead  of a mixer  
tap as long the new sink has the same dimensions  as her old 
sink.
She wanted to clarify that the engineer didnt have a toolkit 
but brought his equipment  from his van. Also she didnt 
return the form to him, he just took a photo of it from her 
daughters phone. 
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The comments Mrs C made are in relation to the redress  rather 
than my findings so I see no reason to change  any of the 
findings I made in my provisional  decision. 
In terms of the redress I agree that it would be sensible  for BG 
to give Mrs C advance warning so she can make the necessary 
arrangements, including ensuring her daughter is there,  for the 
appointment. In terms of approving the sink, I think if it is a like-
for-like replacement it wont need Mrs Cs approval.  It would be 
sensible for BG to let Mrs C see the sink before its installed but 
as long as its the same or a close match (and certainly  the 
same size) as the previous  sink I think BG can go ahead and 
install it. I also wont require BG to use an alternative company 
to carry out the work unless it already has other companies it 
uses for this type of work.
I sent these comments  to the parties in advance of issuing  my 
final decision. Mrs C thanked me for updating her. BG said it 
provided a quote to Mrs C for a new sink as it couldnt  find a 
Ref: DRN73814399like for like one. It said if Mrs C is unhappy with this she is 
welcome to provide BG with three  quotes for sinks she is happy 
with for it to approve.  
my final decision
For the reasons above Im upholding this complaint and 
requiring British  Gas Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay for and install  a new like for like bathroom sink and taps 
for Mrs C including providing all the necessary  pipes, 
connections and anything else required to get the sink to 
work. I note Mrs C has asked that the new sink has a mixer 
tap rather than two separate ones.  If there is no additional 
cost to this I think British Gas should provide this. If there is 
an additional  cost it must inform Mrs C to see if she is 
prepared to pay the difference. 
It must also dispose of the old sink and taps,  pipes and 
anything else no longer required,  free of charge.  
It must give Mrs C advance notice of its availability so she 
can make  the necessary  preparations for the appointment. 
It must use an alternative  company to carry out the work but 
only if it already has a working relationship with companies 
other than the one that already  carried out the work.  If it 
doesnt it may use the company it used before. 
Pay Mrs C £300  for the distress and inconvenience it caused  
her.
Ref: DRN738143910British Gas Insurance Limited must carry out the above  within 
28 days from the date on which we tell it Mrs C has accepted  
my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple*.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision before 6 
March 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken  off. It should  
also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7381439