K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited t/a Very (Very) opened a credit  
account in his name without his permission. He further complains about the poor level of 
customer service  hes received when trying  to return a parcel and close the account.
background
Mr O has advised our service that he unintentionally  had an account opened in his name 
with Very whilst browsing  online. He says once  he realised what  hed done,  he immediately 
contacted Very to try to cancel the purchase. Mr O was advised that the order had gone 
straight to the supplier  directly and there was no guarantee  the order could be cancelled.  
Mr O says he then received an empty box from Very. Mr O claims he was worried  hed be 
charged for a product  that hed never received.  Mr O has told our service  that he then 
experienced difficulties in trying to return the box to Very through a third party  courier 
service. 
Mr O doesnt think  the process was clear enough  in terms of opening the credit account. And 
hes unhappy with the problems he had in returning  the box to Very. 
Very didnt uphold  the complaint. Very has said that in order  to open the credit account, Mr O 
had gone through its online process.  This included ticking  and electronically  signing a 
consumer credit agreement. And indicating that he had accepted the terms and conditions.  
Very has advised  that the account was closed on 7 December 2018. And the credit 
agreement was then terminated. As Mr O was still unhappy with this situation, he referred 
his complaint to our service.
An investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He felt Very should pay £100  
compensation to Mr O for the poor customer service hed received in respect  of the overall  
delivery and collection  experience. But he didnt  think Very should have to do anything  about 
the account opening process. 
Very didnt agree with the investigators  view. As it has not been  possible to resolve this 
complaint, the matter  has now been  passed  to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence 
which has been submitted to our service, this decision will focus  on what I think  are the key 
issues in dispute.
I note that it has been explained by Very that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited 
provided the credit facility  for the account, while Shop  Direct  Home Shopping Limited are 
responsible for managing all the orders and returns.  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
feel that it wouldnt be fair for them to be required to compensate the customer  for service 
failures like those raised by Mr O. The investigator has already explained why he doesnt  
think this should  be dealt with as two separate complaints. The catalyst  here for the 
complaint was the credit account and the delivery of goods was ancillary to the account. 
Mr Os complaint stems back to when  he asked for the account to be closed and for the item 
Ref: DRN72948992in question to be returned. Having thought about  this issue  I too agree with the investigator  
for the reasons already given. 
Im satisfied there was enough information to alert Mr O that he was opening a credit 
account with Very. So I dont think Very has done anything wrong here. I think  the process 
was fair and Mr O had reasonable opportunity to understand what he was agreeing to.
I do however think that the customer service Mr O received when trying to return the box did 
fall short  of what Id expect. And I think he likely  experienced distress and inconvenience 
through this situation and when trying  to close the account. I therefore think  a compensation 
award from Very of £100 is fair and reasonable to reflect this. I dont think it would be 
appropriate to award  additional compensation to Mr O for the costs he says hes incurred by 
taking time off work.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  t/a Very should pay Mr O 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7294899