K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as (Halifax) mis-sold her a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Ms D say that her account was upgraded without  her consent. She also says that she called 
to query  this and was told that she had no option but to have this account.
background
Ms D opened a fee free account in July 2000.  This was upgraded to an URCA in January 
2010.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  the URCA had been mis-
sold. Ms D disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to decide  what to do about Ms Ds complaint. 
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Ms D, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome  she was 
hoping for. But I hope  that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion. 
Ive started by considering whether Ms D was given  a fair choice in taking out this account. 
Ms D had held a free account for many years  prior to this upgrade, so I think  that she 
wouldve known that Halifax did offer free accounts and also had a general awareness that 
free accounts would be available  elsewhere.
I note that Ms D says that she did notice this change  and I can see that she did register  a 
handset almost immediately after the upgrade.  This suggests she was aware at this point  
that her account had been changed. If, as Ms D says, her account was upgraded without her 
consent, I think that she would either have downgraded once she found this out or wouldve 
queried this change.
Ms D has said that she did contact Halifax in relation to this, but there are no records of any 
contact being  made  with Halifax, or of a downgrade request at this time.  So overall I think  
that it more likely than not that Ms D did agree to the upgrade, albeit in circumstances she 
can no longer recall and I think that its most  likely  that she agreed to the upgrade due to the 
benefits that it came with.
Ms D has said that she did not need  the benefits  that the account came  with. But she has 
registered mobile phone handsets and made a claim under this benefit,  contacted  the travel 
insurance provider  and used the breakdown  cover. This suggests that she had a need for 
the majority of benefits that the account came with.
Ref: DRN73218552I accept that Halifax  may not have given Ms D all of the information about all of the benefits 
that it shouldve.  But Ive not seen  anything specific that she was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  her decision,  or put her off from agreeing to this upgrade.
So given everything that has been said and provided about this complaint,  I dont  think  that 
the URCA was mis-sold  to Ms D. Because of this, I dont think  it would be appropriate to 
require Halifax to refund the URCA account fees.
I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, Ms D may now think that the URCA has been  
poor value  for money and she may now regret having it, given how much she has spent in 
account fees over the years. But ultimately this doesnt  mean that Halifax was wrong to have 
sold it to her at the time.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7321855