K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that First Data  Europe  Limited  mis-sold  him a hire agreement  for a card 
payments terminal.
background 
Mr C and his wife ran a business which  used  a card payment  terminal provided by a third 
party. On the recommendation  of their son, who was not involved in their business,  they 
changed provider  to First Data. Mr and Mrs C were on holiday abroad  at the time, so their 
son negotiated  with First Datas salesman  and signed the hire agreement  in Mr Cs name. 
That was in November  2017. On their return, Mr and Mrs C used the new terminal until they 
sold their business  and retired in August 2018.
Mr and Mrs C had been trying to sell their business  since 2016,  and had always  intended to 
retire once it was sold. Mr C says that their son, who was aware of their plans, had 
specifically mentioned this to the salesman, and the salesman had promised that there 
would be no cancellation  fees if Mr C ended the agreement  early. He also says that the 
salesman told his son that the agreement would last for 18 months (if not terminated early). 
So when Mr and Mrs C retired and returned  the terminal, they were  shocked to be charged a 
cancellation fee, and to discover that the term of the agreement was actually four years. 
Mr C complained about the cancellation fee, and he also complained  that First Data should 
never have  accepted his sons signature, since his son was not a partner in the business  
and he had not had authority to sign on Mr Cs behalf or on behalf of the partnership.
First Data pointed out that Mr C had been using  the terminal for several months, so it did not 
uphold his complaint about the sons lack of authority to sign the agreement.  It did not 
address the cancellation fee in its final response  letter. So Mr C brought  this complaint to our 
Service. (The agreement  is in his sole name,  as if he was a sole trader, but Mr C says he 
had intended the partnership to be party  to the agreement. So his wife has also consented to 
this complaint being brought, purportedly on behalf  of the partnership.  But since Mr C is the 
hirer and he alone is being pursued  for the debt, I have treated this as his complaint. This 
has not affected my approach to this complaint, or the outcome.)
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in part. He said that Mr C had authorised  his son to 
sign the agreement. He accepted that it was true that the salesman had told the son that 
there was no cancellation  fee, and that the agreement was for only 18 months. But he also 
said that when  Mr C had returned from his holiday,  he should have checked  the agreement  
himself during the cooling-off period, and that if he had done  so, then he would have seen 
that there  was a cancellation fee, and that the agreement was for four years.  He thought that 
meant that First Data had still been  entitled to charge  the cancellation fee. However,  the 
adjudicator also said that First Data should not have charged  arrears and late fees for the 
period during which Mr C had been  disputing the cancellation fee. So he recommended that 
First Data waive the arrears  and late payment fees.
Mr C did not accept that opinion. He said that if the adjudicator accepted that his son had 
been told there was no cancellation fee, when there was, then the agreement  must have 
been mis-sold. He said he would  not have wanted  the agreement  if he had known the true 
position. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
Ref: DRN73813962my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold  the complaint about  Mr Cs son not having authority to sign.  On Mr Cs own 
account of what  happened,  he gave his son permission to negotiate and sign the agreement  
on his behalf.  He then used the terminal for about nine months without  complaint.  So he 
cant now retrospectively withdraw the authority he gave his son. I think  that the agreement  
was properly executed and entered into  subject to the complaint about misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  causes someone to enter a contract 
which they would not otherwise have entered. I agree  with Mr C that if thats what  happened  
here, then First Data sending him a copy of the agreement with the cancellation fees and the 
four year term set out in the terms and conditions does not automatically get First Direct off 
the hook.
First Data has never  denied  Mr Cs description  of events  not in its final response to his 
original complaint (which  on its own I may have assumed  was just an oversight), nor in 
response to his subsequent complaint to our Service,  nor following our adjudicators written 
decision in which he found  that it was true. So there is no reason for me to disbelieve  the 
account I have  been given. I accept  that Mr Cs son would not have signed it on Mr Cs 
behalf if he had known what the terms of the agreement really  were. I therefore find that the 
agreement was misrepresented.
The normal  remedy for a contract which has been misrepresented  is not to order the 
contract to have effect as if the misrepresented facts  were actually true, but rather to unwind 
the agreement  and to refund everything  that has been paid. However, I cannot ignore the 
fact that Mr C made use of the terminal for about nine months, asking  to end the agreement  
in August 2018 and only returning  the terminal in September.  It is only fair that he should  pay 
for the time he had the machine, regardless of how he came by it, and regardless of whether 
he used it between August and September.  So I think that the rental  payments made for the 
period until and including September 2018  should not be refunded. The agreement  says that 
payments are made  in advance, so Mr C should  not be liable for the payment  which  fell due 
on 1 October 2018, or for any subsequent  month  or for any cancellation fees.
I am therefore minded to order  First Data to refund everything that has been  paid since  then, 
and to cancel  any arrears or other  unpaid sums incurred since then.
(I have noted that the agreement wrongly  identifies the hirer as Mr C acting as a sole trader, 
with the partnerships name as his trading name.  But I dont think anything turns on this 
point, and so I have made no findings  about it. It does  not affect the outcome.)
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties  by the date below, I intend to order First Data 
Europe Limited to unwind  the terminal hire agreement, to refund all monies paid by or on 
behalf of Mr C since 1 October 2018, and to cancel  all arrears  and other  outstanding sums  
incurred or falling due on or after that date.
Ref: DRN73813963I now invite Mr C and First Data Europe Limited  to let me have  any further comments by 
9 July 2020 (but preferably earlier than that),  after which I will reconsider all the evidence 
and submissions and then issue my final decision.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr C accepted my provisional  findings.  First Data did not respond. So there is no reason for 
me to depart from my provisional  findings, and I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order First Data  Europe Limited to unwind the 
terminal hire agreement, to refund all monies paid by or on behalf of Mr C since  1 October 
2018, and to cancel all arrears and other outstanding sums incurred or falling due on or after 
that date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381396