K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained about the decision of Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to decline  her claim under her employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs W was employed  by a particular company (which Ill call Z) and was a member of its 
group income protection insurance policy held with L&G. Under the policy,  Mrs W would be 
entitled to benefit, after a waiting period  of 28 weeks, if she was unable to perform her 
occupation due to illness or injury.
In January 2016, Z moved Mrs W to a new role which was customer-facing. In April 2016, 
Mrs W stopped working due to work-related  stress  and depression.  In February  2017,  Z 
made a claim under  the policy on Mrs Ws behalf.  Later that month, Mrs W returned to work  
in a different role to that she had been in immediately before her sickness absence.
L&G declined the claim. It considered that Mrs W hadnt been so ill throughout the deferred 
period that it prevented her from doing the material  and substantial  duties  of her occupation. 
Instead, it considered  that the main  barrier to Mrs W returning to work had been  non-
medical, namely the change in her work role.
Mrs W was unhappy at L&Gs decision.  She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  My 
findings were as follows:
To qualify for benefit, the policy states  that Mrs W had to be incapacitated by illness  or 
injury which  prevented her from performing the essential duties of her occupation 
immediately before she stopped working. The policy further states  that whether or not that 
occupation is available is irrelevant.
The question I therefore need to determine is whether Mrs W was prevented  by her illness 
from performing the essential duties of her occupation from the time she stopped working  in 
April 2016 until beyond  the end of the deferred  period  which was at the beginning of 
November 2016.
Mrs Ws GP has confirmed she has a history of depression but that until January  2016 her 
symptoms were well-managed  and under  control. However, the GP said the change to a 
customer-facing work role had a negative impact on her mental  health  and led to stress  and 
depression, which caused her to be unfit to work.  While absent, she was on medication and 
underwent counselling. The GP said in August 2016  that until the issues over her work role 
were resolved, she would  struggle to return to work.
I think that of crucial importance to this case is determining the essential duties of Mrs Ws 
occupation. Mrs Ws employment  contract says she is employed as a process administrator. 
In January 2016, the role she had been  performing for many years came  to an end and so 
she was transferred to a new role which was customer-facing. It was this customer-facing 
aspect which  triggered her illness. She eventually returned to work in a role which  wasnt 
customer-facing. The adjudicator said this was therefore an entirely  different role to the one 
shed been performing immediately before her incapacity whereas L&G considers  it was a 
Ref: DRN76170562reasonable adjustment which, if Z had made  sooner, would have enabled Mrs W to return to 
work before the end of the deferred  period.
While I recognise the adjudicators argument, I have to consider that until January 2016 
Mrs W was working  in a role which wasnt customer-facing. Z moved  her to the new role 
without, as far as I am aware,  either  offering redundancy  or drawing  up a new contract which  
leads me to conclude  that Z considered this to be a reasonable  adjustment  to her employed 
position. That being the case, I think she was still in the same broad occupation as she was 
before. I therefore conclude that, while speaking to customers was an essential part of the 
specific role she had now been asked to carry out for Z, it wasnt  an essential part of her 
broad occupation.
A suitable role which didnt require Mrs W to speak to customers became  available  in 
February 2017 and Mrs W returned  to work.  However, the occupational  health notes show 
Mrs W was intending to return  to work  to a suitable role in September 2016, which was 
before the end of the deferred period, but didnt do so because it turned out the role didnt 
exist.
I sympathise with Mrs W that she was put into a role against  her wishes  which caused her to 
become ill. However,  Im satisfied that before  the end of the deferred period she was ready 
to return to work in her broad  occupation provided a suitable role could be found. The policy 
makes clear  that the lack of availability of an occupation is irrelevant  when it comes  to 
determining whether someone  is incapacitated from performing that occupation.  To my 
mind, this complaint  is really about  an issue between Mrs W and her employer after it moved  
her to a role to which she was medically unsuited. I dont think the policy  was intended  to 
pay benefit in such circumstances.  I think it was reasonable for L&G to decline  the claim.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mrs W didnt accept my provisional decision.  She pointed out that she was medically signed 
off work by her GP. She said that her role before January 2016, and the role to which  she 
returned in February  2017, also involved speaking to customers on the telephone but that 
the role which  she had been  moved to in January  2016 required her to speak to a different 
type of customer.  She provided evidence  to show that another insurer  had accepted  her 
claim for disability benefit under a mortgage payment protection policy.  She said Z had been 
at fault for mismanaging her claim and that she was being treated unfairly as a result.
L&G offered  no comment  on the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should not be upheld.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ws GP had signed her off work but the GP had also said that the 
workplace issues needed to be resolved for her to return  to work. In September  2016 she 
was ready  to return to work in a suitable  role if one had been available.
Mrs W says that she was always required to speak to customers  as part of her occupation  
and it was just the type of customer she was required to deal with from January 2016 which  
was the problem. I dont think this strengthens her claim. It simply confirms that Mrs W 
Ref: DRN76170563wasnt medically unable  to perform her occupation  by September 2016;  she was just unable 
to work in the particular department to which she had been  moved.
I note that another insurer accepted Mrs Ws disability claim under a mortgage payment 
protection policy. However,  I dont know the precise  terms of this other policy  and regardless 
of this I dont think the other insurers decision means L&G was obliged to accept  her claim.
Mrs W feels that Z has made mistakes for which she is suffering the consequences. I cant  
comment on this because  her complaint isnt against Z, it is against L&G.  If Mrs W has an 
issue with Z she will have to resolve this directly  with Z. I am satisfied that L&G has done 
nothing wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before XXXX 2019 .
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7617056