K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Ms H ( whom  Ill refer to together as (JYR) complain that Document Solutions 
(UK) Ltd misrepresented  the terms on which they were to enter into lease  and maintenance 
agreements for a photocopier with a finance company (S), and specifically that Document 
Solutions would arrange settlement with S of their existing  photocopier lease  agreement.
background 
In April 2016 Document  Solutions approached JYR with a view to supplying them with 
photocopying equipment. JYR said they had existing equipment supplied by another 
company and financed on a lease  agreement from S. At the meeting JYR gave Document 
Solutions particulars  of what they thought  was their current lease  agreement. 
Document Solutions  said it could  supply new equipment at a lesser  cost than they were 
paying, which would include paying off their current agreement  with S. Relying on this, JYR 
entered into a new lease  agreement with S for equipment  supplied  by Document Solutions. 
JYR then found  they were still paying  S for their old equipment.  It transpired  that the 
particulars JYR had given Document Solutions related to earlier  equipment, the lease for 
which had been  paid off some time ago. But Document Solutions hadnt obtained details of 
the current agreement  from S, or asked JYR to do so, before proceeding with the new 
arrangements.
Document Solutions, wouldnt meet the expense of settling  the previous agreement. It said it 
was entitled to rely on the particulars JYR gave it. So JYR complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. After  the initial meeting 
Document Solutions  sent JYR an email saying:
I have now spoken  with S & they are willing to allow us to retain  the business with them  & 
include the settlement  of all monies due to them on your existing . Agreement. This means 
I am in a position  to immediately reduce your existing costs by half, provide you with a brand 
new device & also settle off the outstanding balance on your account.
Relying on this, JYR entered into the new arrangements.  However S told the investigator 
that although Document Solutions had approached  it to enquire about  JYRs current  
agreement, it had refused to supply any information  to Document Solutions for data 
protection reasons.
Document Solutions  didnt  make any further enquiries or ask JYR to do so. It relied on the 
incorrect particulars JYR gave it at their first meeting, even though these  related  to an 
agreement that was already settled, and Document Solutions knew JYR had a live 
agreement with S.
The investigator said that contrary to what JYR had been promised, they had ended  up 
paying for two agreements. So she thought it was fair that Document  Solutions  unwind the 
lease agreement and maintenance agreement it had persuaded JYR to enter into without 
cost to JYR,  and refund the payments it had made  under them with interest.
This would put JYR in the position  it would have  been in if it had been given all the relevant 
information, when  it wouldnt have entered into the new arrangements.
Ref: DRN79165142Document Solutions  didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. They responded to 
say, in summary, that they had acted  in good faith and had relied on the information  JYR 
had given them. The episode was in no way caused by them.  So it wasnt  reasonable for 
them to bear the cost of unwinding the agreements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find I have come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator,  and for broadly  the same  reasons.
JYR gave  Document Solutions the information  they had to hand  at the time of the initial 
meeting. Unfortunately  this turned out to be out of date information. However Document 
Solutions took responsibility for speaking with S and arranging  the settlement of JYRs 
existing agreement with S.
It failed to check out the existing agreement properly, or ensure that JYR obtained  a proper 
settlement figure from S, but proceeded with the new arrangements  regardless. So it 
misrepresented what  would happen to JYR.  I find that Document Solutions,  not JYR, was 
responsible for JYR having  to pay for both the old equipment and the new equipment.
I accept that if they had known the true situation,  JYR wouldnt have entered into the new 
arrangements. So I think its fair and reasonable that Document  Solutions puts JYR back  in 
the position they would have been in if they hadnt done so.
Since entering into the new arrangements,  JYR have continued to make the payments due 
under the existing agreement, which included maintenance  of the existing equipment. 
However they have  made no use of it as it was disconnected by Document Solutions when 
the new arrangements began. 
I conclude, therefore  that its fair and reasonable that Document Solutions arranges  at its 
own expense,  and without cost to JYR,  to unwind the lease agreement and accompanying 
maintenance agreement it persuaded JYR to enter into, and to refund all sums JYR has paid 
under the new arrangements, with interest, all as set out more fully below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Document Solutions (UK) Ltd, at its 
own expense,  and without cost to JYR,  to:
1.unwind and settle the lease agreement  and accompanying  maintenance agreement it 
persuaded JYR to enter into;
2.remove the new equipment after giving JYR reasonable notice so that JYR can 
acquire replacement photocopying equipment for its business  to use without 
interruption;
3.if JYR so requires, reconnect the old equipment  so it can be used for the remaining 
period of the lease agreement for that old equipment;
Ref: DRN791651434.refund  to JYR all sums it has paid under the new arrangements  in respect  of the new 
equipment and the accompanying maintenance agreement; and
5.pay JYR interest on the sums  mentioned in 4. above at the annual rate of 8% simple  
from the date each amount was paid by JYR until settlement. *
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
  If Document Solutions considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell JYR how much its taken off. It should  also 
give JYR a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Customs  & Revenue if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7916514