K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
For the avoidance of doubt, another business sold Miss C PPI. But Aviva has accepted 
responsibility for this complaint, so I will only refer to Aviva  in this decision.
Its also the case that there is limited information about the events and circumstances  
leading up to this complaint  in part due to the passage of time  and because  of the 
involvement of another business.  So briefly:
The policy started  around the end of 2001 and it was set up to protect  Miss Cs mortgage  
payments in the event she became unemployed  it didnt provide accident and sickness 
cover.
At the time Miss C was employed and she told us she was entitled to sick pay of at least  six 
months full pay. She didnt have any other means such as savings, but says she had an 
endowment policy.  Miss C also told us shed  suffered from a medical  condition  a few years 
prior to the sale.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They  said the evidence 
suggested Miss C was given a choice about  PPI and she agreed to take it out. And there 
was nothing to indicate it was unsuitable  for her at the time.
Miss C disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss C  I know this isnt the answer she was hoping for. But for the 
reasons Ive set out below, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold:
I think Aviva made it clear that Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Ive already said there is limited information  about  what happened  including  whether 
PPI was sold over the phone or during a meeting. But Ive seen a copy  of Miss Cs 
mortgage application and I can see here there  was a separate  section  about  PPI. 
Looking at this there  is a tick in the box to take out PPI  there was a box to tick if PPI 
wasnt wanted. And this was equally  prominent.  I can also see Miss C signed the overall 
mortgage application.
Im mindful too that Miss Cs policy was for unemployment only,  which suggests to me 
that it came about following a discussion  about her particular circumstances and needs  
if it wasnt then why the tailored level of cover?
Ref: DRN74596942So overall and taking into account the limited evidence about  an event which  happened  
many years ago, I find it more likely than not that Miss C chose to take out PPI and she 
did so knowing she didnt  have to have it.
Aviva  recommended the PPI to Miss C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Miss C didnt have any other  means  to help meet her mortgage payments if she was 
made unemployed, so I think the policy couldve played a useful part in helping  her 
protect her home.
Its possible the information Aviva gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been  the limited evidence doesnt tell me how,  what  or when  she got 
information about the policy. But Ive found that she likely chose to take it out - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think Miss C has lost out as a result of having PPI with her mortgage,  so 
Aviva doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - including what shes said about her 
endowment policy.  But this type of policy is very different to the PPI policy which  is the 
subject of this dispute.  As such its not an important  consideration  for me in determining  this 
complaint. So these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7459694