K820x#14complaint
Miss O says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her.
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Miss O said this meant she missed  
a payment to her TSB loan on 30 April 2018.  She also said she didnt have access to her 
online account for a month after the IT problems started.
TSB sent Miss O a final response letter in May 2018 in which  it offered her £18 to cover call 
costs, £50 for the upset and confusion caused  plus £25 to cover  the missed  loan charge. It 
also arranged for her credit file to be amended for the missed payment.
Miss O referred the complaint to our service. Two separate adjudicators looked into the 
complaint and thought the problems  Miss O faced werent caused by TSBs IT issue.  They  
said the contact  notes and telephone calls provided  by TSB showed Miss O had cancelled 
the direct  debit to the loan because she didnt have  enough funds in her account. And her 
statements show she had access to her online banking  in the months  following  the IT issues.
Miss O disagreed with the assessment so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer TSB made and paid on 16 May 2018 is fair in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Miss O told us that she didnt have  access to her online banking for months  due to the IT 
issue. Because of this she didnt have access to funds so TSB advised  her to cancel the 
direct debit for her loan, which led to her having  a late payment  marker on her credit file. 
TSB has provided a copy of the telephone call between  Miss O and TSB the day before the 
loan payment was due. In this, Miss O says a company she had a contract with couldnt  
send her funds as they also banked with TSB and were having issues with TSBs online 
banking. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  I have  no information about the separate  company, their 
relationship with Miss O or about the payment Miss O was expecting  from them.  So I cant  
safely say any issues Miss O had receiving the payment were  solely  down to TSB.
But even if I found  that TSB was at fault, its put Miss O back in the position she wouldve 
been in had the loan payment  been  made. It paid her £25 for any charges she may have 
incurred, but looking at her account  information she didnt incur  any charges as a result of 
the missed payments. It also agreed to amend  her credit file for the 30 April 2018 missed  
loan payment and refunded her call costs. So Miss O hasnt been financially disadvantaged 
as a result  of the missed loan payment.
Ref: DRN71830032Miss O chose  to cancel her direct  debit for the loan payment  after a TSB representative 
suggested she do this. In its final response  letter, TSB advised Miss O to make  the payment  
in full before  her next loan payment date of 28 May.  But Miss O didnt make any manual 
payments and only reactivated her direct  debit for the loan on 22 June. I can see no 
technical reason  why Miss O couldnt have  reactivated the direct debit sooner and I dont 
think the delay  was caused by a TSB error.
Miss O has said she didnt have online access to her accounts  for at least  a month after the 
IT issues  began. Ive looked at her statements along  with TSBs internal notes on the 
transactions on her accounts. These show  Miss O made online payments and transfers 
regularly after the IT issues. I appreciate Miss O feels she must have been affected by the IT 
issues, but not everyone was. And based  on the evidence Ive looked at, its more  likely she 
continued to have online access following the weekend of the IT issues. 
I appreciate Miss O says she had to make a number of phone  calls to TSB.  But she hasnt  
been able to provide any evidence of this as she says she had a pay as you go phone  at the 
time. On balance, I think the £18 in call costs, plus the £25 it paid her for charges  she didnt 
incur are fair in the circumstances and I dont think it needs to increase this payment.  
my final decision
Having considered everything, I think the offer TSB paid to Miss O on 16 May 2018 is fair in 
the circumstances. This comprised of £50 for distress and inconvenience,  £25 for charges 
and £18 for call costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7183003