K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W complains a car supplied to her by FCE Bank  Plc (trading as Ford Credit) (FCE) 
under a hire purchase agreement is defective.  Mrs Ws husband, Mr W, has pursued  the 
complaint on her behalf. Where I refer to actions taken by Mrs W, this should be taken to 
include any actions taken  by Mr W as well.
Background
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mrs Ws complaint on 5 November 2019, giving 
both parties to the complaint some  time to add any further evidence, comments  or 
arguments before I reviewed the case again.  My provisional decision is attached  to and 
forms a part of this final decision, however in very brief summary  my findings  were:
It was likely an underlying fault was causing clutch  judder at the point the car was 
supplied to Mrs W. This hadnt  been  properly investigated by the dealer or FCE.
The clutch had since failed due to excessive slipping potentially caused by Mrs W, 
but it appears she had been  slipping the clutch more than usual in order  to 
compensate for the judder, which was itself caused by a fault.
It was fair in the circumstances  to allow Mrs W to reject the car and receive some 
compensation.
Mrs W said she accepted the decision but had experienced considerable inconvenience  
since 20 July 2018 when the car failed. She asked that I consider increasing the amount of 
compensation. 
FCE, after some delay,  wrote to us to say it had decided  to await  the results  of 
thedecision of the other Alternative  Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme which  had been 
looking at Mrs Ws complaint about another business (but about  the same  car), and there 
were no timescales for when this will occur. FCE hasnt  provided any other written 
comments, but I understand it has said in a phone conversation that it doesnt think  it should 
have to reimburse the £2,000 consideration given  for Mrs Ws previous car in part-exchange, 
because it doesnt  appear on the paperwork.
The case  has been returned to me to review again.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going on to address the other points raised by Mrs W and FCE, I need to cover  
FCEs statement that it is going to wait for the other  ADR scheme  to make a decision on 
Mrs Ws complaint  against the other business,  about  the same  car.
I explained in my provisional decision  that the involvement of the other ADR scheme could 
give me grounds to dismiss  Mrs Ws complaint without considering its merits, but I didnt 
think it was appropriate  to do so, and gave  my reasons for this.
Ref: DRN70762502In light of this, its disappointing FCE has adopted the position it has rather  than engage with 
the arguments. FCE hasnt explained  why it has decided to wait for a decision from the other 
ADR scheme; the impression I get from its response  is that it is unhappy with my provisional 
decision and so it wants to see if the decision from the other ADR scheme is more 
favourable to it.
In any event, Mrs W has withdrawn her complaint  with the other ADR scheme  so there will 
be no decision on her case there. In the circumstances I dont see any reason why I cant, or 
shouldnt, continue considering Mrs Ws case.  
Mrs Ws comments on the provisional  decision
Mrs W has asked  me to reconsider the level of compensation in light of the amount of 
inconvenience and other costs she was put to after the car broke  down. Mrs W is the 
complainant in this case (as it was she who entered the hire purchase agreement) so Im 
limited to considering  financial  and non-financial losses shes  suffered. Im unable  to 
consider financial  and non-financial losses suffered by, for example, her husband  or her 
daughter.
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to direct FCE to refund, with compensatory 
interest, any repayments Mrs W had made  after the car broke  down. This refund is intended  
to reflect  the fact that, without a car, Mrs W would have needed to make  alternative transport 
arrangements and this would  have  cost money.  However, I thought that the timing  of the 
breakdown in the summer holidays would have caused her additional inconvenience and I 
consider the £150 additional compensation I outlined in my provisional  decision remains  a 
fair amount to cover  this. 
FCEs verbal comments on the provisional  decision
As Ive mentioned  above, FCE has said it doesnt  think it should refund  the £2,000 Mrs W 
was given as consideration  for her old car traded in as part-exchange, because it doesnt 
appear on the paperwork.
Normally there would be evidence of a part-exchange in the invoice for a car, or its value 
would be included as a deposit. In this case though, the dealership used the value of the 
part-exchange to reduce the purchase  price of the car Mrs W was entering into an 
agreement for, and didnt  put this in the invoice. Im not sure why things were done this way 
but the dealership has confirmed it, and my view is that £2,000 consideration was given for 
Mrs Ws old vehicle.  Its unlikely to be possible to return  this car to Mrs W now so I think  its 
fair that she instead  receives a refund of the consideration she was given for it at the time.
FCE hasnt commented  on my provisional  findings that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.  I assume it disagrees with those findings  given its desire  to wait for a 
decision from a different ADR scheme,  but as it hasnt put forward  any new arguments or 
evidence to support  its position I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings 
regarding the quality of the car.
It follows that I remain of the view that Mrs W was able to reject the car due to it not being of 
satisfactory quality. 
Putting things  right
Ref: DRN70762503To put things right for Mrs W I direct FCE to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to her and cancel  the hire purchase agreement  so that she 
owes no further payments.
Refund the £2,000  consideration  Mrs W was given towards the car for part-
exchanging her previous vehicle.
Refund all monthly payments Mrs W has paid towards the agreement  since  
20 July 2018 when the car broke down, minus anything that has already been 
refunded.
Refund 10% of Mrs Ws monthly  payments covering  the period up to the point the car 
broke down, to reflect the fact her use of the car was impacted by the issues  with the 
clutch.
Pay Mrs W 8% simple interest* per year on the refunded amounts, calculated from 
the date these were  originally paid (or consideration was given), until the date the 
refunds are made.
Pay Mrs W £150 compensation to reflect the fact that after the car broke down she 
was without the use of a suitable  vehicle for her family over the summer holidays,  
causing her inconvenience.
Remove any adverse  information relating to Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement from 
her credit  file, and record the agreement as settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCE to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs W 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if Mrs W asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint and direct FCE Bank Plc to take the actions outlined in the Putting things right  
section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN70762504COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs W complains  a car supplied to her by FCE Bank  Plc (trading as Ford Credit) (FCE)  under a hire 
purchase agreement is defective. Mrs Ws husband, Mr W, has pursued the complaint on her behalf.  
Where I refer to actions taken by Mrs W, this should be taken to include any actions taken by Mr W as 
well.
Background
Mrs W entered a regulated  hire purchase agreement with FCE in February  2018 for a new car with a 
cash price  (after an allowance) of £16,725.  Mrs W traded in her previous car for £2,000 and this was 
reflected in the overall deal as a reduction in the cash price of the new car. Under the agreement, Mrs 
W was expected to make  38 monthly payments  of £253.87,  followed by an optional final payment.
The car was received by Mrs W on 1 March 2018, and she reported  some concerns  to the supplying 
dealership within a few days of this. Specifically, Mrs W said there was a problem with the clutch 
juddering. She says she was asked to give the car a few weeks,  during which  she noticed poor fuel 
consumption and no improvement in the behaviour of the clutch. On 28 March 2018 she returned the 
car to the dealership, which emailed her to confirm it would be investigating, and noting she had 
asked to reject the vehicle.  At about the same time, Mrs W raised her concerns  with FCE, also asking 
to reject the vehicle.
The dealership inspected the car and confirmed  the fuel consumption was under 30 miles per gallon. 
It reported  there was no judder or jumping from the clutch unless it was released sharply. Mrs W says 
this wasnt  mentioned to her, and she was told only there was no fault with the clutch.
In mid-April 2018  Mrs W spoke to FCE and complained the car had been sold to her as being  fuel 
efficient but this didnt appear to be the case. She asked for the length of the agreement  to be 
shortened and for a contribution  towards the cost of her petrol. She also mentioned the issues with 
the clutch  and that the dealership had said it wasnt faulty.
The dealership arranged for the original agreement to be replaced  by a new,  24 month one, and for 
Mrs W to be paid £1,000 towards the cost of her petrol. FCE refunded the instalments Mrs W had 
paid to date towards the old agreement and wrote to Mrs W in May 2018 to confirm  this. This letter  
didnt mention  the clutch  issues although notes on FCEs system indicate  it was aware  Mrs W had 
raised concerns about this.
Mrs W says she then experienced continual  problems with the clutch, including a whining sound, 
more juddering, and warning messages on the dashboard.  She arranged  for it to be inspected again  
at the dealership but before  this could  happen, on 20 July 2018, the car broke  down, having  covered  
about 5,150 miles  since  new. A roadside repair company attended and recovered the car to the 
dealership, reporting that it would not drive  and was selecting gears  while the clutch pedal was 
released. The report suggested  the clutch was broken rather than worn. Mrs W asked to reject the car 
a few days later.
The dealership disagreed. It removed the gearbox and inspected the relevant  components, 
concluding that Mrs W had burned  out the clutch due to the way she drives, rather than there being a 
fault. It also found the release bearing was noisy, concluding the grease lubricating it had dried up 
due to excessive heat caused by Mrs Ws driving  style.  FCE, who Mrs W had involved in the 
complaint in mid-July, had an independent engineer visit the dealership to carry out another 
inspection. The engineer  observed that the clutch plate and pressure  plate were very worn, and 
concluded the components had failed as a result of advanced wear and excessive heat caused by 
slipping the clutch. He said the most likely cause was incorrect  driving technique. The engineer did 
not inspect the release bearing, gearbox or flywheel.
Ref: DRN70762505FCE offered to cover  50% of the cost of replacing the clutch as a gesture of goodwill, and later 
relayed an offer from the manufacturer to cover 100% of the cost. Mrs W maintained that she wanted 
to reject the vehicle, and referred the matter to this service, where it was looked into by an 
investigator. 
Our investigator concluded there had been a fault developing with the car at the point Mrs W acquired  
it, and that she should be allowed to reject it. FCE disagreed and made  a number of points to support  
their position.  These  could  be summarised  as follows:
There is an ongoing  complaint with another Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)  scheme in 
relation to the same  matters and it is concerned about the position  it will be put in if the 
decisions of this service  and the other ADR  scheme conflict  with one another.
The gearbox in Mrs Ws car is of a different type to the one our investigator based her findings 
on.
There are no known  faults with the clutches on vehicles like Mrs Ws. There  is a safety recall 
on Mrs Ws car in relation to the clutch slip detection software, but this doesnt mean  there is 
an issue  with the clutch itself. In any event recalls are a means  of improving vehicles, rather  
than admitting that they are faulty.
The evidence  from the dealership and other experts points to the issues with Mrs Ws car 
having been  caused  by wear  and tear, itself caused by riding the clutch. The car is shared 
with at least two other drivers so even if Mrs W didnt  cause the wear  then someone else 
might have.
Important evidence  in the form of a video  has not been  taken into account  because  it has 
been supplied in a format the Financial  Ombudsman Service cannot view.
If there is some  defect with the car then it should  be allowed an opportunity to repair  this 
before Mrs W can reject it. It hasnt  yet had this opportunity.
FCE asked  for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws agreement with FCE meets the definition of a hire purchase agreement  under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, and a contract to supply goods under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The 
effect of the CRA here is to make FCE responsible for ensuring the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs W.
Satisfactory quality means the standard a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price paid, and any other relevant  circumstances. 
If Mrs Ws car was not of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to her, then she has certain  rights 
under the CRA. These include the right to reject the vehicle and treat her agreement with FCE as 
being at an end, so long as certain  criteria are met.
Ref: DRN70762506At this point I need to consider FCEs point  that Mrs W has an active  case  with a different ADR 
scheme relating to the same car. The latest information available to me about  that case is that some 
preliminary findings have been made which are in Mrs Ws favour,  but there has been no decision. 
The rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service say that I may choose to dismiss a complaint without  
considering the merits if the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being  dealt with, 
by a comparable ADR entity. 
Mrs Ws complaint  against FCE has been brought on the grounds Ive described  above  about  a 
failure under a hire purchase agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  to supply goods 
to Mrs W that were of satisfactory  quality.  Mrs Ws case with the other ADR entity is not against FCE, 
so there will be no risk of FCE receiving  two different decisions  it will receive only one. Bearing this 
in mind, I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss  Mrs Ws case. I have, however,  thought  
carefully about some of the other potential  implications of Mrs W having  cases  with two different ADR 
schemes, which I will deal with later in this decision.
The gearbox  and clutch
I accept FCEs point  that Mrs Ws car does not have the gearbox our investigator concluded was 
present. Our investigator based her findings on the car having an automated  dual-clutch transmission, 
but the available evidence shows Mrs Ws car in fact has a standard  six-speed manual transmission 
with a clutch which is operated  by the driver  via a pedal.
In this case, Mrs Ws clutch failed and this means the car cannot be driven. The report provided on 
FCEs behalf  by an independent engineer, supported by photographic evidence, says the clutch 
disc/plate was heavily-worn and the pressure plate showed deep blue markings  and high spots. Ive 
also had the opportunity to view the video provided  by FCE,  which shows a mechanic spinning the 
release bearing by hand. My observation is that the bearing appeared  to be noisy and did not move 
smoothly.
On a manual gearbox car the clutch serves to connect and disconnect the engine from the 
transmission, allowing power to be transmitted to the wheels. When the pedal  is fully-released, a 
pressure plate  moves  against the clutch disc, which is in turn pushed against the spinning engine  
flywheel. In this situation the clutch and flywheel then spin at the same speed.  When  the pedal is fully-
pressed, the clutch disc is held away from the spinning flywheel and they do not touch, being allowed  
to spin at their own speeds.
When the pedal  is partially-pressed, the clutch disc and the flywheel slip against one another, and the 
clutch disc and pressure plate do the same. This generates heat and wears  down the components. 
So the more a clutch slips,  in general  the faster  it will wear  out.
The cause of the clutch failure and its relationship  to potential defects
Given the above,  I dont think its unfair to say that the longevity of a clutch on a manual transmission 
can depend  to a significant extent on the way in which it is operated by the driver.  A driver who slips 
the clutch  more  will likely get less life out of a clutch than one who slips the clutch  very little. This is 
what FCE is saying has happened here  that Mrs W, or someone else driving the car, has been 
slipping the clutch excessively and this has caused it to wear out to the point of failure.  I can 
understand this point  of view. After  all, the engineers report does show the clutch components are 
heavily worn.  Its entirely possible that excessive slipping  of the clutch led to it failing.
Even if thats the case though, it doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs W or another driver is to blame  for 
the failure, or that there wasnt  a defect with the car. Ill explain further.
Ref: DRN70762507Mrs W says the clutch hasnt  been functioning  as she expected it to from the moment she picked up 
the car. Indeed, she reported the clutch was juddering  within a few days  of this. Although it apparently 
didnt tell Mrs W at the time, the dealership also identified juddering under certain conditions when  
she asked them to look into the issue. I think I have to conclude then, that the clutch was juddering  
when Mrs W first acquired the car.
A diagnostic  guide from a well-known clutch manufacturer explains  that juddering can be caused by 
problems originating  in a number of places, including the engine,  release bearing, hydraulic system  
and gearbox.  As far as Im aware,  none  of these diagnostic avenues have been pursued.  FCE has 
said there are no known  faults with clutches on cars like Mrs Ws, but this doesnt mean that a fault 
couldnt exist either in the clutch or a linked or related system or component. Mrs Ws car is subject to 
a recall relating to the clutch slip detection software. FCE has said this has nothing to do with any 
issue with the clutch, and is a software update intended to minimise the risk of serious failures  
occurring where a clutch is already very worn through normal use. 
I follow FCEs logic here. But it appears as part of the same recall the manufacturer is replacing the 
clutches in some cars.  Its not clear to me why this being done if the recall relates  only to a software 
update. In any case,  having considered all the available evidence I think  its more  likely than not that 
there was indeed  a defect with the car which  was causing  juddering when Mrs W picked  it up.
This of course  doesnt  necessarily explain how the clutch came to be worn out and fail. Mrs W has 
said the juddering made the car difficult to drive and she had to release  the clutch  pedal  very slowly to 
stop it from happening.  It seems probable then that in attempting to compensate for the judder Mrs W 
may have slipped the clutch more than usual and this has led to excessive wear.
In the end, taking into account the brand-new nature of the car; how early  Mrs W reported problems; 
the fact the dealership was able to replicate the judder in certain conditions, and the very early failure 
of the clutch,  I think its more likely  than not that there was a fault with the car at the point  Mrs W 
acquired it. It follows that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality  and it is FCEs responsibility 
to put things  right.
FCE has said theres already a reasonable offer on the table,  to cover 100% of the cost of a new 
clutch. FCE has added it has a right to attempt  a repair under  the relevant legislation  because the 
complaint has been made too late for Mrs W to be able to insist on rejecting the car. The relevant 
legislation does say that if, at the point Mrs W asked  to reject the car, more  than 30 days  had passed 
since it had been delivered, then FCE would  need to be given an opportunity to repair or replace it. 
Ive considered the sequence of events carefully. Mrs W first asked to reject the car within 30 days of 
purchase and she cited the juddering as one of the reasons for this. It appears she was told by the 
dealership that the car was not juddering  and dropped  this part of her complaint, as it did not appear 
in FCEs final response. She then brought it up again when the car had further issues. In light of this, 
think it would be reasonable to treat the present complaint as a continuation of the one she previously  
decided not to pursue.  As a result, Mrs W should be treated as having  raised her concerns  early  
enough to be able to reject  the car if it isnt of satisfactory quality.  It also seems FCE has had an 
opportunity to correctly diagnose and repair the clutch anyway, and hasnt done so. My view therefore 
is that it wouldnt be reasonable of FCE to insist  on a repair. I think its fairer to allow Mrs W to reject 
the car.
Additionally, I think the issues Mrs W has experienced with the car have caused her considerable 
inconvenience. She has explained the juddering made the car difficult  to drive, describing  it as 
kangarooing, so it appears her use of the car was affected before it broke  down. And after the car 
broke down  Mrs W says she has had to rely on a different  car which isnt suitable  for the number of 
people in her family. This coincided with the summer  holidays where family outings would have been  
more frequent. Having  thought about the impact these things  have had on Mrs W, I believe it would 
be fair for her to receive a partial  refund of her repayments  up to the point the car broke down, and a 
moderate amount of compensation.
Ref: DRN70762508Putting things right
As I mentioned earlier,  Ive thought  about  the potential implications of Mrs Ws case  with another ADR 
entity. Its possible,  for example, that she may receive some  redress from the respondent business in 
that other case. This means that when putting things right, FCE will need to communicate  with the 
other respondent business and should immediately inform them of the outcome  of this case. FCE 
does not need to take any of the actions listed below if these have already been taken by the other 
respondent business.
To resolve matters for Mrs W, I intend to direct FCE to take the following  actions:
Collect the car at no cost to her and cancel the hire purchase agreement so that she owes no 
further payments.
Refund the £2,000 consideration Mrs W was given  towards the car for part-exchanging her 
previous vehicle.  This does  not appear on the paperwork  but has been confirmed by the 
dealership.
Refund all monthly payments Mrs W has paid towards the agreement  since 20 July 2018  
when the car broke  down, minus anything that has already been refunded.
Refund 10% of Mrs Ws monthly  payments  covering the period up to the point the car broke  
down, to reflect  the fact her use of the car was impacted by the issues with the clutch.
Pay Mrs W 8% simple  interest* per year on the refunded amounts, calculated  from the date 
these were originally paid (or consideration was given), until the date the refunds are made.
Pay Mrs W £150  compensation to reflect the fact that after the car broke  down  she was 
without the use of a suitable vehicle  for her family over the summer holidays,  causing  her 
inconvenience.
Remove any adverse information relating to Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement  from her credit 
file, and record the agreement as settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  FCE to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off, if Mrs W asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and direct FCE Bank Plc to 
take the actions outlined in the putting things right section of this provisional  decision.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to give me any new evidence or arguments they want me to 
consider. They should make sure these reach me by 19 November 2019.  I will then review the case 
again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7076250