K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains he has incurred a loss of investment growth because his financial  adviser,
WJR Financial Solutions Ltd (WJR),  failed to send the funds  to his Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM) and so the DFM was unaware the funds were  available to be invested. 
Instead, the contribution was held in Mr Ss cash account in his Self Invested Personal  
Pension (SIPP).
Mr S wants to be compensated for any foregone  investment growth on the contribution  he 
made to his SIPP in early April 2016.
background
On 4 April 2016 Mr S paid a net contribution of £143,000 (grossed up to £178,750) to his 
SIPP This was held in his SIPP cash account until 13 February 2018, rather than invested in 
the SIPPs discretionary managed fund.
Mr S says he did not know that there was a bank cash account within his SIPP. He assumed 
the funds had been invested rather than held in cash. Mr S says that WJR had an obligation 
to invest his funds.  Previous contributions had been invested rather than held in cash.
Mr Ss complaint is very specific.
WJR rejected his complaint. It said that Mr S had not given it investment instructions and 
had not raised  the investment status of the contribution in subsequent meetings.
Our adjudicator disagreed. He said that WJR  ought to have invested the contribution in the
same funds as Mr Ss earlier contributions had been  made.
As agreement was not reached, the matter  was referred to me.
Having considered Mr Ss complaint, I concluded that his complaint should  not be upheld.
But I issued a provisional decision in order to allow all parties to make further submissions 
before I reached a final decision. 
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that although substantial  submissions had been  
made by both parties in support of their respective positions, all of which  I had carefully 
considered, my provisional  decision was predicated on a single  item of evidence  a letter of 
5 April 2016 from WJR to Mr S  which in my view was compelling in deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
WJR accepted the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. Mr S disagreed with my 
conclusions and made a further submission explaining why he disagreed.  I am grateful  for 
this submission, which clarified  that he did not have a discretionary  fund management 
agreement with WJR.  That arrangement was with a different business.
My misunderstanding  was predicated on Mr Ss complaint originally  being  that WJR had 
failed in its obligation to invest Mr Ss pension contribution as detailed  in his earlier 
submissions. I regret the misunderstanding but it does not materially impact my decision 
here. As it did not have a DFM agreement with Mr S, in my view that reduces its obligation to 
Ref: DRN73487292have invested  Mr Ss contribution. But irrespective of WJRs client relationship  with Mr S, his 
complaint is that it failed  to act as it should have done.
Mr S added that although WJR advised  him not to invest, it took substantial  commission 
from his plan; confirmed  that he made the contribution  directly  to his SIPP;  confirmed that 
WJR did not at any point  control his funds; confirmed that following the contribution, he did 
not issue further instructions to WJR; and responded to WJR in March  2017 when he 
became aware  his funds remained in cash.
 my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that multiple issues have been  raised  in the course  of this complaint. These 
have included the Lifetime Allowance in respect of Mr Ss pension  contributions,  the annual 
contributions he may make to his pension arrangements and the tax implications thereof as 
well as the respective  obligations of his DMA and his independent financial adviser.
But in my view, Mr Ss complaint can be distilled to three issues.  First,  was Mr S reasonably 
unaware that his SIPP  incorporated a cash account in which his contribution was held; 
secondly, was WJR  negligent in not forwarding Mr Ss pension contribution to his DFM  or 
informing it that additional  funds were  available; and thirdly, which of WRJ and his DFM was 
responsible for investing his pension contribution rather than holding it in his SIPP cash  
account. 
In respect of whether Mr S was aware  that his SIPP incorporated a cash  account, I note that 
WJR wrote to him the day after the contribution had been made  by Mr S to his SIPP. It said:
5th April 2016
Dear Mr S
Pension Contributio n 2015/16
Please take this letter as confirmation  that we have today forwarded  your pension  
application form to Old Mutual  Wealth, I understand you have paid your  contribution  to 
the SIPP  Cash  Account today.
As discussed,  we have not provided  advice  on this transaction and you have made 
the contribution  of your own accord, based  on advice from PwC. As discussed,  we cannot 
guarantee that this contribution  will be accepted for full tax relief.
As this contribution  will take you closer  to the Lifetime Allowance  and you plan to make 
further contributions  to your pension  next year to maximise the tax relief available  to you, it is 
important I point  out that it is vital you receive advice  prior to making any further 
contributions.
I suggest you contact me when we know the outcome of the referendum  later in 
the summer or after  the American elections in the autumn to decide on how to 
invest post  this period.  (my emphasis  throughout  in bold)
Ref: DRN73487293In my provisional  decision  I said of this letter  that reasonable  inferences  to be drawn  by 
Mr S would  have  been:
a) Mr S was not advised on the contribution by WJR.
b) It confirmed the contribution had been  made directly by Mr S to Old Mutual  Wealth  and on 
his instructions, was held in his SIPP Cash Account
c)  That no decisions or instructions were given to WJR by Mr S about how these  funds 
should be otherwise invested
d) In fact, the letter confirms that such decisions  should be made later in the year 
possibly as late as November after the US elections
e)  That the onus was on Mr S to contact WJR with any further  instructions
f) That if Mr S was unsure  about anything in the letter he should contact WJR.
Notwithstanding Mr Ss clarification in respect of his DFM, I am not persuaded that the 
inferences I set out above are unreasonable. My view is unchanged  that Mr S ought 
reasonably to have  drawn such inferences  from this letter.
I appreciate that Mr S says he was unaware  that his SIPP had a cash account. I am 
surprised by this as most, if not all, SIPPs require  a bank cash account  if only to pay the 
ongoing charges without  having to liquidate investments to meet these costs.
I also note that Mr S was sent annual statements for his SIPP which  detailed  cash held in 
the SIPP Cash Account . I also note his SIPP administrator wrote to Mr S on 6 April 2016 
shortly after the contribution had been  made. Amongst other matters, it said:
I am pleased to acknowledge  receipt  of your contribution as follows:  Member  contribution 
(Net) £143,000.00
In the case  of member  contributions,  the basic rate tax element will be reclaimed from 
Her Majesty's  Revenue & Customs and credited  to your  SIPP cash account on or 
before 25 April.  (my emphasis )
The letter concluded:
If you have any questions, please  contact your adviser.
But if I accept that Mr S was unaware  that his SIPP had a cash account, I would therefore 
have expected him to query,  having received WJRs  letter  as well as the correspondence 
from his SIPP administrator, all of which referred  to a cash  account, to query  these letters or 
seek clarification of what was meant  by them.
The second  aspect of Mr Ss complaint as expressed in his response  to my provisional 
decision is:
However, on this occasion the money  was never  sent to my DFM  and that is the specific  
basis of my complaint.  
Mr S then further explained:
On 4 April 2016  I paid the net contribution into my SIPP. My SIPP  had a DFM  who worked  
for (another company)  and they looked after my SIPP and invested it as per their instructions 
as my DFM. 
Ref: DRN73487294Mr S continued:
So when I sent my money on April 4 2016 to my SIPP  I believed  my DFM  was going to be 
investing it as per their instructions. Im sure you can understand  my surprise, 
disappointment and most importantly my serious  concern when I spoke  with my DFM  directly  
in March 2017 and discovered he had never received the funds.
But the funds  could not have been sent to Mr Ss DFM  as he asserts. They  were  paid 
directly into his SIPP by Mr S. His SIPP administrator subsequently confirmed it had 
received the funds. Mr S has confirmed that WJR  .were my IFA only and they were not at 
any point in control of investing my funds in the SIPP . Given that WJR  did not receive  or at 
any point have control of the funds it cannot have transferred them to Mr Ss DFM.
So I cannot hold WJR  accountable for this aspect of Mr Ss complaint, of failing  to transfer 
the funds to Mr Ss DFM, particularly as it had no direct involvement  in making that payment  
to Mr Ss SIPP and the funds, as Mr S was obviously  aware, had been  transferred directly to 
his SIPP  by Mr S. 
However, having said that, I conclude that the underlying crux of Mr Ss complaint is that 
WJR ought to have  notified his DFM that a further contribution had been made. Had it done 
so, the DFM, Mr S says, would  then have invested the funds  according  to its standing 
instruction.
This aspect  of Mr Ss complaint is predicated on the basis that his DFM  had no way of 
knowing such a contribution had been  made  and so could  not invest the funds.
I am puzzled by this. Mr S has said that his DFM was responsible for managing the funds in 
his SIPP.  Mr S says that the funds  had been  put in a cash  account  which  my DFM had no 
access to. 
But the funds  were held in a cash account within Mr Ss SIPP. I do not see how the DFM  
could invest Mr Ss funds without apparently knowing  the quantum of such funds or how it 
could monitor the progress of invested  funds without having  access  to Mr Ss SIPP, 
presumably via either Mr S directly or his SIPP administrator.
But even if the DFM  was unaware of the assets in Mr Ss SIPP, including  cash balances, I 
am not persuaded that it was incumbent on WJR  to inform Mr Ss DFM that additional funds 
were available for investment. I have not seen any documented evidence to show that Mr S 
gave or had previously  given WJR  instructions to deal directly with his DFM  in this regard.
It is not disputed  by Mr S that WJRs role in dealing with his SIPP  was limited.  Mr S said in 
response to my provisional  decision that:
Crucially, WJR were  my independent financial adviser and not my fund manager. That is the 
fundamental misunderstanding  that is apparent in the ombudsmans  provisional decision.  It 
was not and is not WJRs role to decide  when  or how the funds should be invested  within  my 
SIPP, it was simply  their role in this case to facilitate the contribution  to the pension,  as I had 
asked them to do, and for the job of managing  that money to be determined  by the fund 
manager.
Ref: DRN73487295Mr S has confirmed  that he had a DFM  agreement  with another company. That being the 
case, if WJR had told that DFM to hold the funds in cash (although  I have not seen evidence 
to show it did this),  I think it was incumbent  on the DFM to either challenge  this direction on 
the basis that it did not agree with it or because Mr S previously told the DFM that all 
contributions should  be invested;  or challenged it on the basis that WJR was exceeding its 
remit and the ultimate destination of the contribution  was a matter for the DFM  and not WJR. 
In the event, I have  not seen evidence to show  Mr S or his DFM did challenge WJR. 
But if I accept that Mr S was unaware  that his SIPP had a cash account, I would therefore 
have expected him to query,  having received WJRs  letter  as well as the correspondence 
from his SIPP administrator, all of which referred  to a cash  account, to query  these letters or 
seek clarification of what was meant  by them.
So even if there  was a standing  instruction from Mr S to WJR  that all contributions should 
be invested, Mr S was made aware  that WJR advised that the contribution, albeit not 
managed by WJR, would be held in the SIPP cash account. 
In my view, Mr S ought then to have  questioned  why WJR was apparently not acting  in 
accordance with his standing  instruction.
Furthermore, Mr S has confirmed that he did have a discretionary fund management (DFM) 
agreement with another company. That being the case, if WJR  had told that DFM to hold the 
funds in cash (although I have not seen evidence to show it did this), I think it was incumbent 
on the DFM to either challenge  this direction on the basis that it did not agree with it or 
because Mr S unequivocally had said all contributions should  be invested; or challenged  it 
on the basis that WJR  was exceeding  its remit and the ultimate destination  of the 
contribution was a matter  for the DFM and not WJR.
In summary,  for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Mr S was not aware that 
his SIPP  had a cash account; or that WJR failed to transfer his funds to Mr Ss DFM; or that 
Mr S (irrespective of whether WJR was exceeding its remit) was not aware  that his 
contribution was being held in cash.
I am not persuaded that it was incumbent on WJR  to inform Mr Ss DFM that additional 
funds were available for investment. I have not seen any documented evidence to show  that 
Mr S gave or had previously given WJR instructions to deal directly  with his DFM  in this 
regard. In my view, Mr Ss complaint  may more appropriately be directed towards his DFM 
who were aware, or ought to have been  made aware by Mr S, that further funds  were  
available for investment. I appreciate that Mr S says There wasnt  any further  instruction  
from me because I believed my DFM was dealing  with my SIPP funds in accordance with my 
earlier wishes but I think that is a matter between  Mr S and his DFM to resolve. 
In the event, I have  not seen evidence that the DFM did so challenge WJR  or seek further 
clarification from Mr S as to his investment intentions in respect  of the contribution. Or that 
Mr S contacted WJR or his DFM with further  instructions.  So even if WJR  was exceeding its 
remit or not following Mr Ss standing  instruction  or not acting in accordance with the DFMs 
intentions, Mr S was aware of this but took no remedial action.
Finally, I have noted that in response to my provisional decision Mr S says I referred to the 
fact that I was not advised on the contribution  by WJR but as Ive mentioned  they did advise 
not to invest. Yet, they took tens of thousands  of pounds in commission. 
Ref: DRN73487296But rightly  or wrongly, as Mr S says above,  WJR did give him advice. Its advice was to hold 
the contribution  in cash. I pointed out in my provisional decision that holding funds in cash  is 
an investment decision.
I appreciate that in making this comment though, Mr S is implicitly complaining  about  the 
commission taken by WJR. But I have not seen evidence from Mr S to show that in so doing, 
it acted outside  its client agreement with Mr S. 
In conclusion, I am sorry to disappoint Mr S. 
But I cannot fairly or reasonably uphold  his complaint in circumstances where the evidence  I 
have seen does  not in my view incriminate WJR  Financial Solutions Ltd.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.                      .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7348729