K821x#15complaint
In 2003, Mrs B took out a credit account with a high-street retailer.  Alongside the account, 
she also took a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. She believes that the policy  was 
mis-sold to her and has asked for a refund  of all the premiums she paid for it, plus interest. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) provided the insurance and has taken  
responsibility for the way the policy was sold. To keep things simple, Ill therefore use the 
term FICL throughout this decision when discussing actions taken by all those involved in 
selling the policy to Mrs B. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator found that Mrs B 
had a health condition when she bought PPI and that the policy  wouldnt have covered her 
for any claims which resulted from this health condition. So the adjudicator  recommended 
that FICL  should  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. FICL didnt  accept  the adjudicators opinion and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the case, so it has come to me to consider and make  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I agree  with our adjudicator that its unlikely that the policy FICL sold to Mrs B would have 
covered her for any claims resulting from the health condition  she had when she bought the 
policy. FICL also seems to have accepted this. 
FICL had a duty to tell Mrs B about the policy and its significant features, including the main 
exclusions which could have affected  her, fairly  and clearly  so she could decide  if she 
wanted it.
FICL has said that.the documentation (it) provided covered the specific exclusion of pre-
existing medical conditions and  was sufficient  to point  out that a pre-existing medical 
condition would not be covered .. 
I accept that detailed policy documentation may well have described the exclusion, but Im 
not satisfied that FICL explained  this clearly to Mrs B before she bought  the policy. It hasnt 
shown that it brought the exclusion to Mrs Bs attention so she could  consider  it. 
FICL has also said that it doesnt  think its likely  that Mrs Bs health conditions  would have  
led her to take significant time of work, and so it believes she would have bought  the policy  
even if she had known  about the exclusion.  It has said:
 "The customer has previously advised  that this condition has not affected  their ability 
to work or their lifestyle. As this does not affect  the customers ability  to work it is 
unlikely that they would  have needed to claim for this condition and as such it is 
unlikely to have  affected their decision  to purchase  the policy as they would have been 
able to claim for any other  condition.. 
Ref: DRN77057802However, it hasnt provided a substantive  rationale or convincing  background for this 
conclusion. It has sent us some notes  about  its own investigation into Mrs Bs complaint 
which say it needed  to find out more  about her health  condition but other  than the comment  
above, it hasnt  explained any more.
Mrs B was taking two types of medicine for her condition. Her job was potentially  physically 
demanding and I think  her health condition was a significant concern for her. Despite FICLs 
comments, I dont think  she would have taken the policy if she had known that claims 
resulting from the health condition wouldnt be covered. 
So I think that Mrs B lost out because FICL  didnt  tell her about the policys main  exclusions 
fairly and clearly. Had it done so, I dont think she would have bought the policy.  
FICL should now put things by paying Mrs B fair compensation.
putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B wouldve owed when she closed her account if 
the PPI policy  hadnt  been added.  
B.So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should  also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI, as well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
C.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed them until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.If, when FICL works  out what Mrs B would have  owed each  month without PPI, she paid 
more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
E.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint  against  Financial  Insurance  Company 
Limited. It should put things right by paying  Mrs B the fair compensation I have set out 
Ref: DRN77057803above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7705780