K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that the car he leased through a hire agreement  with Ald Automotive  Limited  
(trading as Kia Contract Hire)  (Ald) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Background
Mr B entered into a hire agreement with Ald in March 2018  to hire a new car. He says that 
he wanted to reject the car because it had a fault which  he considered  dangerous and meant 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says the car had a rattle and lurched forwards when 
coming to a slow stop. He says he initially booked the car in for a check with the dealer on 
2 July 2018 but it said the fault couldnt be recreated. He says he visited the dealer and 
showed it the issue and recorded  this on a dash camera. 
Mr B says that he had asked to reject the car due to the issue but he was asked to take the 
car for a further check. He says he didnt receive the service he should have from the dealer 
and this was shown in the information he received through a subject access  request. He 
says Ald also didnt provide the service it should  have. He says he asked to reject the car as 
it was dangerous  and said that he would no longer pay the monthly  rentals. He says he was 
then contacted by Alds  solicitors even though he had offered  to return the car on several 
occasions. He says the solicitors were instructed to recover the car and charge Mr B for this. 
He also says he was asked to return the car to a site a long distance away even though he 
had explained  the car wasnt safe.
Ald says that Mr B asked to reject the car but this wasnt accepted. It says the car had been 
reviewed by two separate dealerships and no fault was found. It says it offered to send its 
own engineer  for a third party opinion but Mr B didnt pursue this option. It says that Mr B 
didnt maintain his payment s from May 2018 and it explained  the action it would take if 
payment wasnt made.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought  that Ald had done  enough  to 
investigate the issue raised by Mr B and said a fault hadnt been  found. She said that Mr B 
defaulted on his payments  and the repossession of the vehicle was in line with the terms and 
conditions of his agreement. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  view and so the complaint has been  passed to me, 
and ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B entered into a hire agreement with Ald in March 2018.  Under  the regulations, Ald can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. As the car was 
new when Mr B hired it is reasonable that he would expect if to be free from faults including  
any minor  defects.
Mr B reported issues with the car. He says there  was a rattling noise and also the car 
lurched forward on braking. The issue regarding  the car lurching  forward  has been the 
subject of the investigation and aside from Mr Bs letter I have nothing further in regard to the 
Ref: DRN72364642rattling noise. Given this I have considered whether there was a fault with the car which  
meant it was lurching forward and if so what a fair remedy would be.
Mr B took his car to be assessed and the report from this assessment says that the car was 
road tested  with Mr B and it did lurch forward slightly when  pulling into a parking space. The 
technician then drove the car and was unable to replicate the fault. It was suggested the 
issue could be with Mr Bs driving style.  A further check  was carried  out later and the fault 
wasnt replicated. Ald then offered for its engineer  to visit Mr B to test the car but Mr B didnt 
respond to this.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  Ald would be liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. However to say this it would be necessary to show that there 
was a fault with the car. In this case the car has been tested twice and no fault was found.  
The car has now been repossessed and so further  investigation isnt possible. So while  I 
understand Mr Bs concern about how the car was driving, without evidence of a fault,  I do 
not find that I have  enough to uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr B has also raised concerns about the service he received from the dealership. As this 
complaint is against  Ald I can only consider  the actions of the dealership  in regard to setting 
up the hire agreement. Subsequent service issues of the dealership  arent the responsibility 
of Ald. 
Mr B has said that he tried to return the car before  it was repossessed.  However, he stopped 
making his payments and, as I do not find I have enough evidence to say that he should 
have been allowed to reject the car, I do not find I can say Ald did anything  wrong  by taking 
further action. I do not have further  details in regard to the repossession process and so I do 
not have anything to say that Ald acted  unfairly  through this.
Overall, while  I understand this has been upsetting for Mr B, I do not find that I have enough 
evidence to say that Ald has done anything wrong and so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7236464