K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the cash equivalent  transfer value (CETV) that Aviva  Life & Pensions  
UK Limited  (Aviva) paid in 2019  was significantly lower than the value hed been given in 
2017. He says that as the CETV was in respect  of a pension  sharing order  (PSO) this 
shortfall has affected his divorce terms and caused  him financial difficulty and considerable 
stress. He doesnt believe the CETV  is correct  or that hes been treated fairly.
background
In 2017 Mr R applied  to Aviva for a CETV in respect of an annuity that was being  paid to 
him. This was because  he was going  through a divorce and needed to confirm the valuation 
as, under the PSO, he was transferring the entire  pension to his ex-wife. The CETV he was 
quoted was £181,091.93.
The divorce process continued and wasnt resolved  until late 2018,  so Mr R had to get an up 
to date CETV  which by now had fallen to £145,635.42. Although Mr R accepted that hed 
been paid an income during this time he was concerned that the difference in CETVs was 
over £35,000. So Mr R complained. He said that Aviva wasnt  using its own current  annuity  
rates which hed found on its website, to calculate  the CETV,  and he thought it had reduced  
the rates for its own benefit. He said the reduction, of around 20%, was greater than what  
hed found was imposed by other similar large pension  providers.
Aviva said it couldnt comment on the values produced  by other  companies  but was satisfied 
it had correctly calculated  the CETV. It said it had provided a CETV based on the annuity  
rate in force and the current value of the remaining income it expected to pay. It did confirm 
some reasons it thought may have caused  the CETV to fall, but thought  it had acted fairly in 
its calculation.
Mr R said he hadnt been treated fairly  by Aviva  and had no confidence that its calculation 
was correct. He decided to bring  his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked  
into the matter. He said that, having  checked the data Aviva  inputted,  he found it to be as 
expected. He explained the factors that might  affect an annuity  rate  both internally and 
when compared  to other providers, and concluded that Aviva hadnt made an error  and 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He also said he couldnt see that Aviva  had 
stopped the new provider  from accepting  the transfer value and didnt think  that was Avivas 
responsibility. 
Mr R didnt agree. In summary he said:
In response to the investigator having reviewed the rates  in question,  Mr R confirmed 
that gilt rates  and annuity rates hadnt  fallen by around 20% between the dates of the 
two CETVs.
He said that the 20% fall was more  than twice that experienced by other  large 
providers during the same period. He thought such a market variance would suggest  
something was amiss with Avivas calculation. 
Hed reached a financial settlement with his ex-wife which was then materially 
changed. He felt he had a moral and legal  obligation to make  good. 
He didnt believe Aviva had used its own available  annuity  rates  to calculate the 
CETV and the resulting reduction had caused  him significant distress and 
inconvenience as well as the financial loss.
Ref: DRN70657762The new provider hadnt refused  to accept the transfer but had questioned the size of 
the reduction which Mr R thought was indicative of the situation.  
Mr R asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman so its been passed to me for a 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator and for largely the same reasons.
Mr R was receiving  an income of £7,220.64 from his annuity. When  the PSO  was agreed 
Aviva had a duty to provide 100% of Mr Rs remaining pension to his ex-wife. But because 
he was receiving it as an annuity  which couldnt be transferred to Mrs R, then it had to be 
recalculated as a capital  sum which represented  its value  at that point. This figure,  known as 
the CETV, would then be transferred to Mrs Rs pension provider so that it could provide her 
with an annuity  based on her own personal situation  at the time.   
Avivas duty here was simply to express the value of Mr Rs pension as a CETV on the two 
occasions it was asked to do so. Theres no suggestion Aviva incorrectly  calculated  the first 
CETV, so Ive looked carefully at how it carried out the second calculation  which  saw such 
a sizeable reduction  from the first one. Ive seen evidence to show  how it used its own 
annuity rate in force on the currency date (the date on which Mr R received  each  monthly 
payment) nearest to the date following the implementation  of the PSO. So Im satisfied that it 
used the correct annuity rate at that time. 
Im also satisfied that it used the same information Mr R provided at the time he took out the 
annuity in 2012 in order to reflect his personal  situation. This would have ensured that the 
CETV calculation in December 2018 was an accurate portrayal of the CETV required to 
provide an annuity  on the same basis as the one Mr R was already receiving. Aviva has 
explained that the CETV is its valuation of the remaining payments it expects to make  under 
the existing plan. So its explained why Mr R has been unable to replicate  the quotation 
either using  annuity  rates  on Avivas own website  or by comparing with other  providers. 
I realise this must be very frustrating for Mr R who assumed the current value of his plan 
would reflect the initial cost of providing  his annuity  less the income hes received. I can see 
how strongly he feels about the fact that hes unable to reconcile  the significant drop in the 
recently calculated  CETV  which means hes felt obliged to make up this cost to his ex-wife 
and has led to him incurring a financial loss. 
Im not in a position to comment on the commercial decisions other businesses make  in 
determining their annuity rates, and Im not aware  of exactly what information Mr R provided 
in order to obtain the figures that he did. 
But I think there are a number of factors here which would suggest  it wouldnt be appropriate 
to compare these  figures  against the CETV Aviva recalculated. 
In simple terms an annuity doesnt  have a cash-in  or transfer value  it isnt designed to 
work that way, as its purpose is to provide  an income for life  based  on an individuals 
circumstances at a point in time and using a specific  capital sum. In cases involving a PSO a 
formula is used which recalculates that value on the basis Ive explained above. In this case  
Im satisfied that Aviva has used  the correct information to provide the revised  CETV  and I 
Ref: DRN70657763cant safely say its made  an error.  Its unfortunate  the CETV  did fall so significantly, although 
I note the delay in implementing  the PSO that occurred during the divorce process.  But other  
factors were at work here as well which meant  that the recalculated figure was somewhat 
lower.  
Mr R is concerned that the fall in the CETV  was virtually double every  other  provider and 
that this variance would  suggest  Avivas  calculation was incorrect  and that it didnt treat him 
fairly. He wants us to ask Aviva to increase the CETV, having checked it annuity  rates  at the 
time in question.  But theres no evidence here to show that Aviva has made  an error, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, or that it hasnt  treated  Mr R fairly.  
I know Mr R would like the CETV to be increased, but I cant say the figure  Aviva  provided is 
incorrect, even if its lower  in comparison to other providers and the other  (Aviva)  annuity 
rates Mr R has found. I dont dispute Mr R has found  other information in circulation, even on 
Avivas website, which he says contradicts Avivas calculation. But that doesnt mean Aviva 
has done anything  wrong here, and Im not persuaded that Aviva has acted  unfairly in 
respect of the CETV calculation for the PSO.  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065776