K821x#15complaint
Miss A says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about five high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny  provided to           
Miss A from March  2018  onwards. Miss As last loan was provided  at the end of the same 
month.
Our adjudicator looked at Miss As case and she thought that Miss A shouldnt have been 
provided with loan five. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss A, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss A was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided her with loan five. 
I say this because  of the total amount Miss A owed Sunny at this stage. In my view, this 
ought to have shown Sunny that Miss A was struggling to manage her money  and that she 
Ref: DRN73444272might have been experiencing difficulty as shed taken a number of loans concurrently and 
this didnt support  her having the level of disposable  income declared. I accept that when 
taken in isolation this loan is for a smaller  amount. But I think that Sunny failed to take into 
account Miss As overall indebtedness. And, in my view, Sunny lent to Miss A even when  it 
ought reasonably  to have realised that any further loans were more  likely than not 
unsustainable for her. 
Miss A had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Sunny shouldnt have provided  her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss A paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss As credit  file as a result of loan 
five.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss As complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss A compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7344427