K820x#14The complaint
Mr W says Western  Circle Ltd - trading  as Cashfloat  - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans Cashfloat  provided to Mr W  which  were taken 
out in February  2018. Both loans  were for £400  and needed to be repaid over a couple of 
instalments. At the time of writing this decision,  loan 2 remains outstanding. 
In our most recent review, our adjudicator  didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. They 
thought there wasnt anything  in the information  Cashfloat had asked   Mr  W to provide that 
should have prompted Cashfloat  to do more checks.  So, the adjudicator couldnt say 
Cashfloat was wrong  to have given the loans to Mr W.  
Mr W disagreed  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  So, it was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN70237472Cashfloat has told this service about  the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr W about  his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of around  £2,300. Cashfloat also checked Mr Ws 
normal monthly living costs. Mr W declared  these to be between  £1,000  and £1,200 a 
month. Cashfloat says it also searched Mr Ws credit file and it has provided  the results  of its 
search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county  court judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were  taken  out. 
Mr W has also provided a copy  of his credit report and this shows that there were  some  
defaults which were  applied but these  were after the loans were taken out so these wouldnt 
yet have shown  up on any checks Cashfloat  would have done  before it lent to Mr W. So, I 
dont think Cashfloat  ought to have  increased  its checks before it lent to Mr W again or not 
lent to him on this basis.   
Mr W borrowed both loans within the space  of a week. So, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with Cashfloat.  Even  though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information  he declared to 
Cashfloat. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr W provided at the time which  
would have given  Cashfloat cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Cashfloat to 
have relied on what  Mr W gave  it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Cashfloat to carry  out. Given these,  I think the checks  Cashfloat  did before lending  the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt  have expected it at this stage to undertake  any more in-depth  
checks. 
The information Mr W declared  to Cashfloat at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Cashfloat was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Cashfloat knew about Mr 
W, I wouldnt  have expected Cashfloat  to verify the information Mr W gave it. This therefore  
means, I cant  say that Cashfloat has done  something wrong  in lending Mr W these loans.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr W, but I hope my explanation will 
help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint and make  no award against  Western  Circle Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023747