K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that R. Raphael & Sons Plc (Raphael) mis-sold him a pre-paid reloadable 
currency card.
background
Mr A obtained a pre-paid reloadable currency card in 2014, which he last used in 
August 2016.  A small balance remained on the card. After fifteen months of the card being 
unused, a monthly fee started being  charged. By the time Mr A wanted to use the card again 
in February 2019,  there were no funds left.
Mr A complained hed not been  told about the fees when he got the card, and that Raphael 
should refund the money hed lost. Raphael refused, saying  these were  the fees for this type 
of account, and Mr A would have been  aware of these when he signed up.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this outcome, and brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked at the case, but said that Raphael had done  nothing wrong and so didnt uphold 
Mr As complaint. The investigator  noted the documentation supplied with the card states a 
fee would  apply after 15 months  of inactivity. And, whilst Raphael had been  unable to 
provide a copy of Mr As application form, it did confirm the sales  process at that time. Taken 
together the investigator said, on balance, it was that likely Mr A was told about the fees. 
Mr A strongly disagreed with this conclusion, saying  he never  saw the terms and conditions.  
If he had seen them, he says he would never  have  allowed the balance  to remain  on his 
card and be lost meeting  monthly fees.  
He was also very unhappy the investigator placed  more weight on what Raphael had told 
us  their product department said all cards came  in packaging which contained a user guide  
and terms and conditions   rather than his own firm belief he never received these. So, Mr A 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the case, and its now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr As strength of feeling  and frustration that hes lost his money, but Im afraid  I 
agree with the investigators conclusions, and for essentially the same reasons. I appreciate 
this will upset Mr A, but Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision.
The document Mr A signed in branch is not available, but Raphael  have been able to provide 
me with an archived copy of the card and document pack (the pack)  that was being issued at 
the time Mr A took out his card. Our investigator  sent this to Mr A for his reference.  Mr A 
questioned whether this was the same card pack that he received, as the specimen card 
attached to it had a different expiry  date to Mr As card.
Raphael has now also told us this pack was issued between 25 March 2014  and 
20 April 2016, and during this period a number of different card expiry  dates were used. Mr A 
obtained his card in July 2014, so Im satisfied this would have been the card pack being 
used at the time he obtained his card. 
Ref: DRN76516172This pack included  an envelope containing a cover letter  with the card and PIN number 
attached (the letter), a document containing the user guide, fees, limits and T & Cs (user 
guide), and a card wallet. The simple question for me is whether I think Mr A was provided 
with a pack like this when  he got the card. I think its likely he was.
As Ive said,  the letter contains two important things. The first is the card itself,  which  
appears to be stuck to the page - Mr A agrees he took a card away  with him. The second is 
a pull-back strip at the bottom of the page,  which contains the card PIN number  behind  it.
I can see Mr A used  his card for the first time 5 days after getting it, so he mustve had 
access to the PIN number  at that time. So on the balance of probabilities  I think its highly 
likely that Mr A mustve had a letter similar  to this at some time, and most likely did have 
when he left the store. Otherwise, he would  not have been able to use the card 5 days  later.
And, as the letter and user guide were  part of the same pack, and Im satisfied  Mr A did have 
a letter  with him when he left the store, I think its more likely  than not that he also had the 
user guide  document with him. They were part of the same pack. He may not have  read the 
user guide  at the time, or seen the fees section, or kept it to refer back  to at a later time, but 
for the reasons Ive mentioned Im satisfied  that he most likely left the store with a similar  
document.
And for these reasons,  Im satisfied Mr A was most  likely provided with a document 
containing the user guide  and fees information. On this basis,  Im also satisfied  that Raphael  
didnt act unfairly when  it charged the monthly  account fee to Mr As account after the fifteen 
months of card inactivity.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I agree with the investigators conclusion,  and my final 
decision is that I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7651617