K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services  was not of 
satisfactory quality. He wants a replacement vehicle and compensation.
background
Mr H tells us he obtained a new vehicle in May 2017  from a dealer Ill refer to as G. He 
says the vehicle broke down in July 2018  as the gearbox disengaged. And further 
breakdowns occurred in both September  2018  and October 2018. Mr H says hes had the 
vehicle taken back to G but its been  unable to replicate the faults. He says whilst the fault 
may be intermittent hes concerned it may reoccur at any time. And he wants  a replacement 
vehicle as he feels the vehicle with which he was supplied isnt fit for purpose.
Alphera didnt  issue a final response letter and other  than provide its business file I cant see 
that its made any comment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said she hadnt 
received any information  to show  the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of 
supply or was not fit for purpose.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this outcome. He said Alphera hadnt fulfilled its obligations under 
the CRA  and hadnt offered any assistance when the vehicle  needed checking.  As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make  the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  some issues with this vehicle and I can see he clearly 
feels its not lived up to his expectations.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Alphera supplied  the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory.
The first report  of any problems with this vehicle was in July 2018  which  is over a year after 
Mr H acquired  the vehicle. It seems on that occasion  the gears became disengaged but the 
vehicle was able to be restarted. 
Ive also seen copies  of breakdown reports from September and October 2018.
Ref: DRN79132652The September report read:
Patrol found the following fault code/s: System: Engine control  - 2S8 / Diesel  CR/EDC 
MEDC 17.9U0402  - Transmission  control  unit. Error Message: Malfunction. corrupt 
information clear data road test.
And in October  it was reported:
Customer reports  sporadic transmission related warning messages in instrument panel. 
Suspect possible poor connection on transmission control unit ground harness,  checked and 
refitted connections.
The vehicles been taken back to G but its not been able to replicate  the faults. And I can 
see that following  an inspection in November 2018 it was confirmed that the software for the 
gear selector  was checked and found to be up to date. Other  software was updated but no 
faults were found  with the vehicle or trouble codes stored. 
Mr H informed our adjudicator in April 2019  that the issues had not reoccurred since  the 
complaint was brought to this service in November 2018. And Ive recently  received 
confirmation from him that hes not had any further  issues since  that time.  The vehicles 
mileage is currently reported  to be around 21,000  miles, which  is in line with the average use 
wed expect. And this tends also to support  the conclusion that the vehicle is performing to 
reasonable expectations.
I appreciate Mr H doesnt think Alphera  assisted  him as well as it might. But I cant say its 
under any obligation to do so if its not been  established this vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If faults are identified more than six months after supply the final right 
to reject contained in the CRA  is not usually available unless it can be shown they were  
present at the point of supply. And here theres  no information which supports such  a 
conclusion. Consequently it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require Alphera to 
accept rejection of this vehicle or provide a replacement.
I recognise Mr Hs genuine concerns at the time he made the complaint. And I can 
understand the uncertainty would itself be a cause  of worry. Issues  which arise only 
intermittently are often difficult to diagnose. But I hope that as its now nearing 18 months 
without any further  problems with the vehicle these fears  will have been allayed.
In summary,  Im unable  to uphold this complaint as theres insufficient information  to show 
the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality  when supplied. 
Ref: DRN79132653my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7913265