K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the car he acquired through a conditional  sale agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. He also complains that a default  has been applied  to his account.
background
Mr D entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF in February  2015  to acquire a used 
car. Within the first few weeks he says he reported  a noise coming from the underside 
(which he subsequently believed to be due to the brakes and wheel bearings) and was told 
the noise was due to the type of tyres.  
Mr D says he took the car to the dealer for new brakes and there  were  issues with the work. 
At this time he asked  about  changing the car but this wasnt  accepted.  Mr D complains that 
he had to make several visits to garages  and mechanics  to have repairs carried  out (often 
due to issues with brakes) costing him around £3,000 in total.
Mr D says that he then had to spend  a considerable amount of time getting the car through  a 
MOT because it kept failing due to the emissions  being too high. He says he took the car to 
a specialist for further tests and it was found the car had a different engine  to that on the 
identification plate.  He believes this was the reason the car wasnt  passing its MOT. Mr D 
says that there is uncertainty about  the history of the car and its quality. 
BPF says that Mr D contacted it in July 2016  as the car had failed its MOT  due to the 
emission as the car had the incorrect engine. He then contacted  it again  in August 2016 
saying the issue  had been resolved. It told Mr D at this time that he would need to provide 
evidence of any faults he claimed  to be present with the car but says no evidence  was 
received.
BPF says that Mr D didnt  make any payments after July 2016 and in April 2017  a notice of 
default was issued. As no further contact was received from Mr D a termination  notice  was 
issued. The car was repossessed in August 2017  and then sold.  The proceeds of the sale 
were set against Mr Ds outstanding  balance.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He thought that the car was of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply and that BPF acted fairly when repossessing the car and 
issuing the default.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said the cars registration details didnt match 
the identification plate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D acquired  a used car through a conditional sale agreement with BPF. Under the 
regulations, BPF can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car. At the time of acquisition the car was over six years old and had been  driven  over 
59,000 miles.
Ref: DRN73934862There are a number of issues that have been raised  though this complaint and I will deal 
with each of these. 
issues with the car (including the brakes)
Mr D says that he experienced a number of issues with the car (specifically  mentioning the 
brakes) and had to have repairs carried out on several occasions. Unfortunately  I havent  
seen any evidence of the repairs that he had undertaken  or further  details of the issues. I 
can understand why Mr D is upset that repairs were needed, but in order for me to uphold  
this part of Mr Ds complaint I need  to be satisfied that the repairs  were needed due to there 
being faults present or developing at the point  of supply.
The car is no longer  in Mr Ds possession and so further investigation isnt possible so I have 
relied on the available evidence. The car passed a MOT at the point of acquisition  and this 
suggests it was of satisfactory  quality. Mr D has specifically  mentioned  issues  with the 
brakes and as these  would  be checked  as part of a MOT I dont find, without further 
evidence, I can say there were faults present with these at the point of supply.
Overall, I dont  find I have enough  evidence to uphold  this part of Mr Ds complaint.
mismatch of car engine  to the identification documents
Mr D has explained he had issues getting the car to pass an MOT due to the emissions. I 
can see that this was an issue in the July 2016  MOT. It had also been  noted in the October 
2014 MOT.  However  the car did pass the MOT in October 2014 and then in 2015 without 
mention of this issue and then again  in August  2016. And this issue  hasnt been mentioned  
in subsequent MOTs.  
Mr D says that the issue raised  a concern that the car had a different engine  to that on its 
identification plate.  While  I note this concern I have no further  evidence  to support this. Also 
in order for me to uphold this part of Mr Ds complaint I would need to understand what 
impact this issue had on him. The car is no longer with Mr D and so this issue cannot  be 
investigated further and I cannot  say that Mr D has suffered as a result.  
So, while I appreciate the concern Mr D has raised  I dont find on the evidence I have seen I 
can uphold this part of his complaint.
default
Mr D has complained that a default has been applied to his account. I appreciate that this 
will affect this ability to get other credit.  However  I can only require BPF to make changes  if I 
find that it has done something wrong. In this case Mr D stopped  making the payments due 
under his agreement. Given this it is reasonable that BPF would take further action.
BPF has shown that Mr D was sent a notice of default and a notice of termination.  As he 
didnt carry out the required  actions set out in these  notices  further  action was taken.  Mr Ds 
car was repossessed.  
Based on what I have seen I dont  find I can say BPF has acted unfairly.  Mr D entered into 
the agreement  and in doing  so agreed  to its terms. He didnt maintain his payments and he 
was notified of what action could be taken.  I havent seen a copy  of Mr Ds credit file but 
Ref: DRN73934863Mr D has said a default has been recorded.  Given the circumstance  s of this case  I do not 
find I can say BPF has done  anything  wrong  by applying a default.
Overall, while  I know  this isnt the answer  Mr D wants  I do not find that I have enough 
evidence to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393486