K820x#14complaint
Mrs Is complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander)  is that its holding  her responsible 
for a debt on a joint account she held with her late husband.
background
Mrs Is husband suffered from a terminal illness from 2015, and very sadly  died in 
September 2018. When Mrs I informed  Santander  of his death, it informed her that as she 
was named on the joint account, responsibility  for that would fall to her, and that there was a 
£5,000 overdraft to repay.
Mrs I was very unhappy about this. She says she knew  nothing about the account; didnt use 
it; didnt benefit  from it, and that since  2015  her whole life has been looking after her 
husband and three young  children.  She also said her husband had been  ill, and wasnt 
aware of what he was doing with the account.
Not only did she think it was unfair to hold her responsible for the debt,  she was extremely 
unhappy with how Santander had treated her. In particular, she said shed been racially  
profiled when shed visited a branch.
She complained to Santander. It apologised if it had done  anything  to upset her, but said it 
found no evidence  of racial discrimination in branch. But to acknowledge what  Mrs I had 
been through, and that fact that it had contacted her at inopportune times about the debt, it 
credited the joint account with £50.00 and sent her a cheque for £150.00  by way of apology.  
In respect of the outstanding overdraft,  it explained that as it was a joint account,  and the 
evidence showed  it was used regularly to pay for general living expenses and household 
bills  and that Mrs I had even used her own card to make payments from it, that it would 
continue to hold her liable for it. 
Mrs I remained  unhappy, and brought her complaint to our service. She said she was 
disgusted with how Santander had treated her, particularly  given her circumstances as a 
widow and single parent  now of three small children.
Our Investigator  considered matters carefully,  and concluded that Santander  was entitled to 
hold Mrs I liable for the overdraft on the joint account. 
Mrs I strongly  disagreed, and submitted new evidence, substantially changing some of her 
original testimony. She said that she hadnt  actually  seen her late husband from 2015  as 
hed become violent and threatening   so she hadnt benefitted from the spending on the 
joint account. She also said that due to the severity of her husbands illness,  he couldnt 
have been using the card, and that his family members must have been. She said the police 
were investigating  fraud.
Our Investigator  looked  into all of this. He took Mrs Is new version  of events  in good faith, 
but still believed  that she had benefitted from the account, and that Santander  was entitled to 
hold her liable for it. He explained that the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 meant that 
the account holder would be held liable for any payments that were authorised, and that the 
evidence hed seen  on the use of the account  and card suggested  this was the case. 
He also confirmed with the police that no fraud  investigation  had been  commenced.
Ref: DRN78016292Finally, he was able to associate Mrs I with spending  from the joint account in relation to 
accounts and payments  that she herself could only have benefitted from  e.g. an Amex 
card, and childcare  expenses following  her husbands death. 
Overall, he still thought Santander  had done  enough to resolve  Mrs Is complaint. 
She strongly  disagreed, and said she wanted to prove that medically her late husband  
wasnt in any condition  to authorise use of the account. 
She asked  for an ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator  that Santander wasnt  wrong  not to uphold Mrs 
Is complaint. 
Id like to extend  my genuine  sympathy  to Mrs I. It sounds that since 2015 at least  shes  had 
an absolutely terrible time.
However, when I decide on a case,  I need  to do so based on the evidence  and what I think  
is fair to both parties. 
The question in this case is whether  Santanders treated Mrs I unfairly,  as she strongly 
believes it has. But Im afraid I dont  agree.
The principal  issue here is that of the £5,000 overdraft on the joint account Mrs I held with 
her late husband, and which is now in her sole name.  The terms and conditions of the 
account allow this to happen.  As with all joint accounts, all persons named accept 
responsibility jointly for all assets and liabilities  in the account. So just as if there was £5,000 
credit in the account, and this would belong to Mrs I, so a debt of £5,000 also belongs  to her. 
Mrs I argues that she didnt know about  this account; didnt see any statements; didnt make 
any payments, etc. But Im afraid I dont think thats true. Ive seen from the account 
statements that it was in regular use and dealt  with payments to insurance companies, 
mobile phone providers, utility providers, paying  a mortgage; etc. The account cards  were 
also used by both Mrs I and her late husband for general living expenses.  
So I cant agree  this was some secret  account that Mrs I neither knew about, nor benefitted  
from. It may well be the case that this account  was managed  solely, or predominantly, by her 
late husband  but shes still jointly named in it and therefore accepts the joint nature of the 
responsibility for it. Mrs Is made it clear to our service that shes educated to a high level, 
and is familiar with banking practices,  so shell be aware of how joint accounts operate.
On the matter of Mrs Is late husband,  and how aware he was about the account, thats very 
difficult to determine  now, without medical  evidence.  But I do note that Santander wasnt  
aware prior to his death of any capacity issues. And in any event, she as joint account holder 
remains jointly and severally  responsible  for what happened on the account. Shes  said she 
believes this was fraud, but Ive seen no evidence of that, and contrary to what shes  told us 
theres no police investigation.
Ref: DRN78016293On this basis, I dont think  Santanders  acting unreasonably  in holding Mrs I liable for the 
outstanding debt. But I do expect it to check for any financial difficulties  in respect of asking 
her to pay the overdraft  back, and to act positively and sympathetically in this regard. Mrs I 
says it hasnt asked  her about  this so far, and if thats correct  Id expect it to do so now.
Mrs I also says she was subject to racial profiling in branch. She says that shes  bi-racial, 
and that in branch it was suggested that she might not understand  English.  While theres  no 
other evidence to support that this happened, I cant agree that this means she was racially  
profiled, or otherwise  discriminated  against  in respect of her race. Im sorry Mrs I feels that 
way, but there simply isnt any evidence to support this. 
Having said that, Im pleased to note that Santander has taken this concern seriously, and 
has spoken to the branch about it. 
Once again, Im sorry to hear about Mrs Is very sad family circumstances, and I wish her the 
best for the future. But I think the £200  Santanders  already  paid her for this complaint is 
sufficient to compensate  her for any poor experience shes  had. 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask Santander  to write-off the overdraft, and Im not going  to 
ask it to do anything  else to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7801629