K820x#14complaint
Mrs U complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) has unfairly  and unreasonably 
declined her claim under a travel insurance  policy.  She wants the claim accepted.
background
Mrs U had a travel insurance policy with ERV.  Mrs U went  on a cruise abroad and became 
unwell; she was treated  on-board.  Mrs U said that she believed she was being treated for 
acute sea-sickness, but the medical staff recorded that they were  treating her for gastritis.  
Mrs U claimed  for the costs of the treatment from ERV, but it declined her claim.  It said that 
gastritis was an undeclared pre-existing  medical condition and excluded  from cover.  Mrs U 
complained and said she was certain  that she was suffering from sea-sickness as the seas  
were rough at the time. ERV said that it relied on the evidence  of the treating medical team  
that Mrs U was treated  for gastritis and Mrs U had been told to declare any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Mrs U complained to us and said that the diagnosis was suspected  acute gastritis, and 
should be ignored. ERV said that Mrs U had deliberately failed to declare her pre-existing 
medical condition  and the claim  shouldnt be paid with no refund  of the premium. The 
investigators view was that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  She said that Mrs U was 
asked to declare  any pre-existing medical  conditions when applying for the policy online and 
she didnt do so, despite having been diagnosed  with gastritis from 2016 and receiving 
regular treatment since. The investigator noted  that other medical  conditions  were also 
undeclared. She said that Mrs U didnt take reasonable care when answering  ERVs 
questions; the investigator thought it was reasonable  to describe this failure as reckless  or 
deliberate as Mrs U knew  of her medical  conditions.
Mrs U disagreed. She said the investigators  view was wrong and was convinced that the 
medical team on-board  the cruise ship had mis-diagnosed her. The investigator explained 
that this service couldnt deal with a complaint against a doctor and noted that the treatment 
appeared to have been successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that ERV has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
ERV is an insurer, not a qualified medical  professional. When  looking at the reasons why 
Mrs U needed treatment  on holiday, its fair and reasonable (as well as standard industry 
practice) for an insurer to look at the medical  evidence provided from those who treated  the 
patient. In Mrs Us case, the medical  team treated her for gastritis as they suspected this 
was what was wrong with her; the treatment was successful. Its relevant to note that the 
medical team was on-board the cruise  ship and well placed to judge  whether to treat for sea-
sickness or gastritis. So its fair and reasonable for ERV to say Mrs U was treated for 
gastritis, particularly when  I note the medication given to her was suitable for that condition,  
not sea-sickness.
Ref: DRN78742332And its clear  from the evidence available to me that Mrs U had previously suffered from 
gastritis. This means its a pre-existing medical  condition and wasnt  declared  to ERV. Under 
the terms and conditions of the policy, such conditions  arent  covered. I looked  at the screen-
shots shown to Mrs U before the travel insurance policy was taken out and was satisfied that 
she was asked to declare  any pre-existing  medical  conditions. I also noted  that ERV said in 
writing that it needed to be told about  any such conditions (including highlighting the issue  in 
the policy summary) and Mrs U was aware of her conditions, including  others not declared 
but irrelevant to her claim.
I think Mrs U didnt take reasonable  care when failing to declare her pre-existing medical  
conditions to ERV when the policy was taken out; a reasonable consumer wouldve 
mentioned them when asked (and Mrs U was asked and notified  about the need to declare). 
Under The Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA),  if 
the failure to declare the pre-existing  medical  condition was deliberate or reckless, the 
insurer can refuse the claim and not return the premium. 
I find that the failure to declare in this case was reckless, if not deliberate  - it was made  clear  
at the time of application that the condition needed to be declared, Mrs U knew that it hadnt 
been declared and I think  its likely Mrs U knew the information was relevant to ERV. I 
understand that a relative helped her with the insurance policy  application (while  Mrs U 
watched), but I think Mrs U understood that her medical condition was important as the 
cover for medical treatment was important to her (as shown by her claim) and she didnt call 
to put things right after the policy was taken out, despite the warnings from ERV. Mrs U 
didnt declare any of her medical conditions, despite  being aware of them  and being  asked.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7874233