K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts without telling him why.
background
After conducting  a review  Barclays  decided to close Mr Ks account.  He held a joint and sole 
account and also had two child savings accounts  for his children in his name.  Barclays  wrote 
to him on 19 January 2018. These letters gave him at least  two months notice of their 
intention to close his accounts on 22 March 2018.
Mr K complained to Barclays  as hed found access to his accounts was also blocked. He 
also wanted to know why his accounts  were being  closed. Barclays apologised for blocking 
his account but confirmed  he was able to withdraw cash in branch. They gave him £25 for 
the inconvenience and £5 in costs  for calls. In their final response on 20 March  2018, 
Barclays stated unfortunately we are unable to provide any information  regarding the 
decision. 
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  He was upset that hed held 
accounts with Barclays for nine years and hadnt  been treated fairly.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. He felt that Barclays followed the correct procedure. 
He didnt think our service was in a position to share  why Barclays had made  that decision. 
He also wouldnt ask them to re-open  Mr Ks accounts.
Mr K remained unhappy  with this outcome. He also re-emphasised a point hed made earlier  
that he was concerned Barclays  had been discriminatory in taking away  his banking services  
as he wasnt British.  Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 31 October  2019. I agreed Barclays  hadnt done 
anything wrong  in closing Mr Ks accounts.
Barclays offered no further comments.
Mr K remained upset  and felt I wouldnt be saying the same thing if he was a British citizen.  
Hed never had any problems with his accounts  and couldnt understand why Barclays  were 
allowed to discriminate against him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive considered everything  Mr K has emailed us to help me reach  my final 
decision. I can see why he thinks this is very unfair.  I should have made it clearer that hes 
not at fault in any way for what Barclays have  decided.  Theres also no reason hed have 
any difficulty in opening new accounts.
Banks are able to make their own decisions about who theyre prepared to offer banking  
services to or not. Theyre  required to provide at least two months notice  if they intend to 
stop offering those  services. Ive seen the letters Barclays sent to Mr K which meet  these 
requirements. I may have  taken a different approach if Barclays had given  Mr K shorter 
Ref: DRN79975992notice of their intention to ask him to move  his accounts  as they can do if they thought 
Mr K was acting suspiciously. He can be reassured by the fact he was given two months 
notice.
Banks dont have to provide reasons for getting  rid of customers but I do need to be sure 
theyve acted fairly when  making that decision.  Barclays is not keen for us to share  their 
reasons for making this decision  with Mr K but I have reviewed their customer  notes and 
seen the history of how Mr K used his accounts.
I can see Mr K made five claims in 2017  that his debit card had been used fraudulently.  Four 
claims had been  made on his sole account  and one on his joint account. This was in a 
relatively short period  (July to December 2017). In all cases Barclays  refunded him. I think 
its more than likely Barclays made the decision to end their banking relationship with Mr K 
because of the risk he presented to them. Although I also note they never raised  those 
concerns directly with Mr K nor gave him any advice about  keeping his debit card details 
secure. Id also add Mr K told us these claims related to duplicate  payments that had been 
taken from his account so he was perfectly  within his rights  to claim this money back.
So taking all this into account,  I can understand why Barclays  made the decision to close  
Mr Ks accounts. I dont think theres any evidence to show  theyve acted unfairly,  or in a 
discriminatory manner  as Mr K suggested.   
Ive also looked  at the decision  Barclays took to block Mr Ks card use before his accounts 
were closed. Again I cant say this seems unfair as Barclays were  taking steps  to protect  
both themselves and Mr K if his debit card details were being  used fraudulently.  I appreciate 
this meant  Mr K had to make other arrangements for buying things where hed have used  his 
card but a lot of the operation of his accounts  continued unaffected. Overall  looking at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied Barclays didnt act unfairly  so I wont  be asking them  to do anything  
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997599