K821x#15complaint
Mr G originally complained about  the lack of ongoing advice and contact from Steven Barton 
(trading as Steven  Barton  Financial Services or SBFS) on his Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP) and Individual Savings  Account (ISA). This complaint is about the ISA. The 
complaint about  the SIPP is being decided separately.
Mr G found that his investments had been invested  in money market funds since  2015,  and 
had grown by 0.11% (before charges) over that 3-year  period. He also learned  that an 
annual management  charge of 1.50% a year had been collected, of which 0.60% pa was 
being paid to SBFS for ongoing advice which  hadnt  been given. He had expected the funds 
to be invested  in a medium risk portfolio  in line with SBFS original advice in 2015.
He sadly passed  away in December 2018 and the complaint has been  continued by his 
widow Mrs G as executor of his estate.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  were set out in a provisional 
decision on 31 January  2020, which is attached to and forms part of this complaint.
SBFS confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision and didnt make any further comments.  
Mrs Gs representative accepted the provisional decision on her behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any comments about  my provisional conclusions,  Ive reached 
the same  view that this complaint should  be upheld, and redress  calculated producing the 
result set out in the attached provisional  decision.
I asked SBFS to make  clear in response to my provisional decision what  its intentions were  
in respect of a payment for upset or delay in the settlement of this complaint, which it was 
previously willing to make but which I cannot  formally award.  Unfortunately as SBFS  hasnt 
responded to the provisional  decision Im unable to convey to Mrs G or her representative if 
any amount will be payable. That is a matter they will need to enquire about when they are in 
contact with SBFS regarding the settlement of my award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Steven Barton to pay Mrs G, as beneficiary  of the late 
Mr Gs estate, £2,669.85  plus interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from 19 March 2019 
to the date the compensation  is paid. Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, as executor 
of the late Mr Gs estate, to accept or reject my decision  before 30 March  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73162502Provisional decision of 31 January 2020
background 
In September  2015 SBFS carried out a fact find which  established Mr G was in good health 
at that time and intended to retire  at age 66 (about seven years  time). He had a small 
existing ISA but was also able to contribute the maximum  £15,240 for the coming year.  
SBFS asked Mr G a number of questions about his attitude to risk which  suggested he was 
somewhere between a low and medium risk investor. Whilst SBFS pointed  out that the 
existing International  Managed fund for his pension was somewhat higher than this recorded 
attitude to risk, it noted that Mr G was happy  to consider funds of similar risk.
Mr and Mrs G had a number of other  investments including over £100,000 in savings 
accounts, some of which SBFS recommended consolidating  to obtain better interest  rates. It 
also recommended  they top up their ISAs (as noted above). By investing  the ISAs  on the 
same platform as the pension, this would also enable  the overall funds to attract a lower  
charge once they went above £150,000. SBFS agreed to make an initial charge of £500  for 
this advice, which Mr G paid by cheque,  and to take an annual fee of 0.5% per year directly 
from the investments.
Mr Gs new ISA contribution of £15,240 went ahead on 22 September  2015, but SBFS 
admits that an internal  worksheet  wasnt  completed.  This resulted in the proceeds being  
invested on the money market rather than an appropriate fund selection being  made.  When 
Mr G subsequently  complained, SBFS  carried  out analysis for its Professional Indemnity  (PI) 
insurer which was based on an assumption that it would  have  invested  Mr G in the Invesco 
Perpetual Monthly Income Plus and Santander Income funds.
SBFS agreed that on this basis  the ISA would  have grown by £2,034  at the time of the 
complaint. SBFS was proposing to offer this to Mr G, but it appears  a response from the PI 
insurer was not forthcoming. However  SBFS did offer to return  the ongoing  fees it had taken 
from Mr Gs pension directly to his bank account. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service, where  it was investigated  
by one of our adjudicators. Unfortunately by this point he had been diagnosed  as terminally 
ill. The adjudicator  was satisfied that Mr G wanted to top up his ISA on the same platform as 
SBFS had proposed  for the pension.  But in addition to refunding  the ongoing fees SBFS had 
taken when it failed  to effect or review his investment strategy, she also thought  he should 
be compensated for lost investment returns and the trouble and upset caused by his funds 
not being invested. 
She took into account that SBFSs assessment of Mr G was that he had a cautious to 
balanced attitude to risk, so she considered he would have invested the ISA accordingly.  In 
her view that indicated  that a benchmark should  be used to model the ISAs  performance 
which was:
-for half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index;
-for the other half: monthly average  rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England
Mr G passed away  shortly  after the adjudicator had issued her assessment. Mrs G 
demonstrated that she had received Grant of Probate as the executor of his estate and was 
able to continue  the complaint in that capacity. The adjudicator revised  her assessment so 
Ref: DRN73162503that the result of the above loss assessment was payable to Mr Gs estate  and calculated  
at the date of settlement on the basis that the ISA continued to be invested.
Although the adjudicator had originally  thought  £150  should also be paid for the upset 
caused, she was unable to direct SBFS to pay redress to Mr Gs estate for distress originally 
caused to him directly.  She suggested  that SBFS  could  consider, if it wished to do so, to 
make a similar payment to a charity  of Mrs Gs choosing.
 
SBFS informed the adjudicator that it was in the process of carrying out the necessary 
calculations. She clarified whether this meant it was accepting the assessment,  as it wasnt  
necessary to quantify the loss before agreeing in principle that this was how it was to be 
calculated. In response SBFS confirmed  that it did agree with the adjudicators  view on how 
redress should be calculated.
Since the point  the adjudicator informed SBFS that Mrs G had accepted the settlement on 
behalf of Mr Gs estate (18 April 2019) it has still not been paid. The reasons for this have 
ranged from:
-It was outsourcing the calculations (23 May 2019)
-It was awaiting an update from the claims assessment company (10 June 2019)
-SBFS was completing the calculations and had queries about the compensation on 
the related pension  complaint. (I responded to those queries on 16 August  2019).
-SBFS then proposed  to retain  its original calculations from July 2018 for both the 
pension and ISA complaints (based  on Invesco  Perpetual  Monthly  Income Plus and 
Santander Income in respect of the ISA) but, on account of the delay, round up the 
total from £8,332  to £9,000. It proposed adding £450 on each complaint for upset 
caused, as well as an ex-gratia further  payment of £500 (23 August 2019).
Mrs Gs representative didnt agree that SBFS should revert to its original method of 
calculation, having  agreed to accept  the adjudicators view which  in the case  of the ISA was 
based on 50% FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index and 50% fixed  rate 
bonds.
They calculated that £15,240 invested  on 21 September  2015 up to the date of Mr Gs death 
would have grown by 25.61%  (in respect of 50% in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  
Total Return index) and 2.83% (in respect of the 50% getting the monthly  average  return  on 
fixed rate bonds). The average return was therefore 14.22%, producing an end value  of 
£17,766.37  equivalent to lost growth of £2,526.37.
I cant establish that the adjudicator required this comparison  to be carried out at the date of 
death, as she assumed  that the investment  would continue running and pass to Mrs G 
through the late Mr Gs estate. However in parallel  to the redress  method for Mr Gs pension, 
the representative was requesting interest be paid at 8% per year simple from the date of 
death to the date of settlement. I apologise  that this discrepancy, which  SBFS  has not 
noticed, has also been overlooked by this service  until now. I will comment  on this below.
SBFS wasnt able to settle such an amount without PI insurer approval, which  it appears  has 
not been forthcoming. It has therefore been  passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73162504SBFS has already conceded  that it did not invest the funds in Mr Gs ISA into the market,  as 
a result of a back-office error. Given that no evidence has been  offered to justify why Mr G 
remained within money market funds from 2015 to 2018 I agree that this was an unsuitable 
investment choice for a long-term tax-advantaged investment.
The adjudicator explained we cannot  use the benefit of hindsight  when deciding what Mr G 
would have invested in. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would have done, but she 
was satisfied that given his circumstances  and objectives, it was fair and reasonable to 
propose that he would have  adopted a cautious-balanced investment profile, which was 
consistent with the composite benchmark  explained  above. This was because, in her view:
Mr G wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Mr Gs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a small 
level of risk to attain his investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr G into that position.  
Whilst I have been  preparing to write this decision, the representative of Mr Gs estate has 
clarified that Mr G had in fact transferred  his pension to the provider for whom she works in 
June 2018, before his death. Given that it is reasonable for consumers to mitigate their loss, 
the approach  we would  normally take if there was a failure to process (or in this case  
formulate) investment  instructions at the outset, is to pause the calculation  and work  out any 
interim loss at the point corrective action was taken  by making  a subsequent fund switch.
In this case the failure to invest into the market  occurred on 22 (not 21) September 2015  
when Mr Gs single ISA contribution had been  received). Given the complete lack of 
evidence of SBFSs  communications  on how Mr G was to be invested,  I cant reasonably say 
that a reference  to the word cash on his statements  would have made him aware he wasnt  
in the correct fund,  particularly  as the statements group cash  together with money market 
instruments (inc cash). I dont credit  Mr G with the level of financial sophistication necessary 
to understand  what a money market instrument  was.
It seems  that it was only as a result of discussing matters with his new adviser, on receipt of 
his March 2018 statement, that Mr G realised there was an issue   and he transferred his 
ISA away shortly after that. I cant hold SBFS  responsible for the suitability of any investment 
choices he made after that.
At the crux of resolving  this complaint  is what fund(s) Mr G might  have invested his ISA in 
and (according to his original complaint) whether it was appropriate for him to be paying 
0.60% per year for an ongoing service he didnt receive. Both issues will be addressed by 
applying a benchmark for the growth  Mr G should  have achieved  in the ISA, net of charges. I 
say this because  it would  be reasonable to expect SBFSs ongoing review of the funds Mr G 
invested in to be to his overall benefit, despite  the charges he paid for that service. 
I note for Mr Gs new pension, he appears  to have been prepared to follow  an investment 
choice that was broadly of medium risk because  he had invested that way in his pension 
before. That was despite, it seems,  SBFS  warning him that this exceeded its record  of him 
as a cautious to balanced  investor. Ive considered  what  this means  for the ISA. The 
Ref: DRN73162505investment split SBFS  says it would have used (but did not, as far as I can see, document at 
the time) is the Invesco  Perpetual  Monthly  Income Plus and Santander Income funds. The 
former invests  mainly in government and corporate bonds. The description of the Santander 
Income fund suggests  similar  so its clear  SBFS, like the adjudicator, thought  Mr G would 
be taking a somewhat  lower risk approach with his investment  compared  with his pension.  
Whilst Mr G said in his complaint that he had wanted to take a medium  risk approach overall  
with his pension  and ISA, I note that his estate  also accepted  the offers negotiated through  
the adjudicator  for there to be this difference in risk approach with the two investments. 
Thats also consistent  with the notes from 2015  suggesting the desire to take more risk was 
only specifically with the pension. 
So I consider the adjudicators use of a 50/50  split between the two indices above  is a fair 
benchmark for the investment growth Mr G would have achieved,  and for the reasons she 
gave in her view. It doesnt mean  that Mr G would have invested 50% of his money  in a fixed 
rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
However, as Mr Gs funds were transferred out of the ISA to his representatives provider on 
29 June 2018,  this is the first point at which a loss occurred. The loss at that point will then 
need to be indexed up (or down) from 29 June  2018  to 19 March  2019 (the date it was paid 
out, ultimately to Mrs G via Mr Gs estate) in line with the overall performance of the new ISA 
he transferred to. 
Whilst I understand why the adjudicator didnt feel it was necessary  to treat the loss as 
having crystallised on 19 March 2019,  I consider  in a similar way to the pension  complaint 
 that it did in fact crystallise on that date. It was no longer Mr Gs investment and became 
Mrs Gs  she could have  used the funds in any way she liked.  She was therefore deprived  
of the use of the funds. As a result, I consider  the loss on 19 March 2019  should then have 
interest added  at the rate of 8% per year simple until this complaint is settled, to reflect  Mrs 
Gs loss of use of those funds. This is set out in full below.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G (and now Mrs G as the 
beneficiary of his estate) as close as possible to the position they would probably now be in 
if Mr Gs funds had been invested into the market by SBFS. 
Its not possible to say precisely funds Mr G would have  chosen,  but Im satisfied that what 
Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
1.The initial investment  into the ISA (£15,240)  would have grown to £17,612.90  by 29 
June 2018 in line with the composite  benchmark  (see attached  calculation).
2.The value transferred out of the ISA on that date was £14,942.78 (see attached 
confirmation).
3.Mr Gs interim loss at that date was (1  2) = £2,670.12.
4.The amount  paid out to Mrs G from the new ISA on 19 March 2019, according  to the 
new provider, was £14,941.33  (see email evidence  attached).
5.The overall investment performance  of the new ISA was therefore (4  2) = 0.9999 
(in other  words, -0.01%). 
6.The adjusted loss on 19 March  2019 was therefore (3 x 5) = £2,669.85.
Ref: DRN731625067.Mrs G has been  deprived  of this sum since 19 March 2019. Interest is therefore to be 
added to the adjusted loss in (6) at the rate of 8% per year simple from 19 March 
2019 to the date the compensation is paid to Mrs G, as beneficiary of the estate.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
The adjudicators original view suggested a payment to Mr G for the upset caused to him by 
SBFSs failure to make the investment. She subsequently  noted  that as an entity rather than 
a person, Mr Gs estate (which this claim was now being made  by) could not be caused 
distress or inconvenience. But I note SBFS was still willing to make what I shall describe as 
goodwill payments to Mrs G on the pension and ISA complaints totalling £1,400 on 23 
August 2019.
I cannot order SBFS to pay specific sums for distress and inconvenience to Mrs G in this 
decision, when  the complainant is now the estate.  Equally it is not my intention  to take 
something off the table  which  SBFS may be willing to pay, separately  to this decision.  It is a 
matter for SBFS if it still wishes to make  a payment which recognises any upset or delay in 
the settlement  of this complaint. I would ask SBFS  to make its intentions clear  in response to 
this provisional decision.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold the complaint by the estate of the late Mr G and make the award set out in 
the fair compensation section above. I will require  Steven Barton to pay the amount set out 
in step 7 of the calculation as compensation to Mrs G, as beneficiary of Mr Gs estate. 
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7316250