K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc ((BoS) trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs M says that she was forced in to taking  the PPI  and that she was given no option 
but to take out the policy. I cant know what was said at the time,  and Mrs M hasnt given 
much detail  about this either. So I have to rely on the information I do have.  
BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application, on this I can see that theres 
a section called Additional Services. In this section, the PPI is presented as an optional  
product, and has been selected with a tick. Mr S has then gone on to sign the 
application, agreeing to the information on it. 
So taking everything in to account,  on balance, I think BoS made it clear  that Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she may not remember  this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN74695622Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - , including what shes  said about being 
punished again by this service by not upholding her complaint. But thats not the role of this 
service  or mine. Mrs M has asked us to make  a decision  on her complaint, and having  
taken everything in to account from both parties,  Ive found that the policy  wasnt mis-sold for 
the reasons set out above. So while  I can appreciate that Mrs M is unhappy  that the 
complaint hasnt been upheld in her favour, this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7469562