K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complained to Gemini Financial Planning Ltd (Gemini) about the suitability of advice 
to invest in a Stirling  Mortimer Fund  which is currently illiquid. 
background 
Mrs H and her husband  became clients of Stirling Associates (Cheltenham) Ltd (Stirling  
Associates) in 2007. In 2009 Stirling Associates  adviser  recommended new investments for 
Mrs Hs self invested personal pension (SIPP).  It seems Mrs Hs SIPP hadnt been doing 
well and the new funds  were aimed at addressing that. The funds recommended included a 
Stirling Mortimer Fund. 
On 9 March 2012 the adviser wrote  to Mrs H and her husband saying that a new advisory  
firm  Gemini   was to be launched.  It followed  a decision to divide  Stirling Associates into 
two separate companies. The adviser  was moving  to Gemini. The letter  said that all Mrs Hs 
existing financial plans  and investments  would  be transferred to Gemini and would continue 
under the advisers stewardship.
Mrs H says performance didnt improve and she decided to withdraw her pension fund. But 
she was told she couldnt access  the money that had been invested in the Stirling  Mortimer 
Fund as that Fund was illiquid. 
Mrs H complained to Gemini. It said it hadnt  provided the advice to invest  and it hadnt  
agreed to accept liability for the advice when  Mrs H was transferred from Stirling  Associates. 
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint.  He thought it should  be upheld  in part. He 
didnt think the investments  recommended  by Stirling Associates were suitable for Mrs H. 
But Gemini  wasnt responsible for advice given by another firm. And he hadnt seen anything 
to suggest Gemini had taken on liability  for the investment advice when Mrs H became its 
client. 
Gemini was responsible  for the continued suitability of the investments and had been 
deducting on going adviser  fees. It didnt appear that Gemini had carried  out any review of 
Mrs Hs investments. There wasnt much that Gemini could have done as the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund couldnt be redeemed. But the adjudicator thought  Gemini  should refund the 
adviser fees it had received from the SIPP. And pay Mrs H £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
The adjudicator also suggested that Mrs H approach the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).  It was accepting claims against  Stirling Associates which had ceased 
trading. I understand that Mrs H did make  a claim to FSCS. 
Gemini agreed to pay what the adjudicator  had suggested. The adjudicator put the offer to 
Mrs H, which  Gemini later quantified.  Mrs H didnt accept the offer.   She made a number of 
comments, both about  Gemini and the SIPP operator. Mrs H has also complained about the 
SIPP provider. That complaint has been dealt  with under separate  reference. 
About Gemini Mrs H said, in summary: 
Ref: DRN70668082The adjudicators  view should  have been based solely on the balance of probabilities.  
Instead it was based  just on the law and the limited  liability  of Gemini as if it was a 
completely separate company.  But the letter dated 9 March 2012  confirmed that it 
wasnt. 
That letter said everything would remain  the same (except for details such  as 
telephone number, email addresses  etc). It was an internal reorganisation. Gemini 
carries the liabilities  of Stirling Associates as that was how the work was divided up. 
The adjudicator  had argued  that Gemini was a separate legal  entity. But the adviser 
had been employed  by Stirling Associates. He was transferred to Gemini along with 
others as a change  in their method of business. He wrote the letter  dated 9 March 
2012 on behalf of Gemini to let customers know that Stirling Associates was simply 
changing its business method with everything  else to remain the same.  Gemini  was a 
further manifestation of Stirling  Associates  and should be treated as the same 
company in all but name. Gemini intended to carry on exactly as Stirling Associates.  
If that wasnt the case Mrs H would have been asked to sign and agree different 
terms and conditions  and fees. But she wasnt sent and didnt sign new terms of 
business with Gemini. It was prepared to go ahead without any change. So the 
original Stirling Associates terms of business dated October  2006 applied  and which  
said she had the right to withdraw her entire investment. So Gemini should pay her 
money back.  
Mrs H asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs husband has made a similar complaint. As in the main  the issues are the same 
theres some overlap  in what Ive said on both complaints.  
I can understand Mrs Hs position.  I can see that a refund of the fees that Gemini has taken 
from her SIPP  isnt going to meet the losses that shes potentially suffered as a result of 
investing in Stirling  Mortimer. Nor does it get over the problem of Mrs H being unable  to 
access her investment  money that she saved for her retirement  and now needs. 
But the question  I have to consider is whether Gemini  as opposed to any other entity  - is 
responsible whats  happened.  Unfortunately  for Mrs H, although I can understand why she 
considers Gemini is liable,  Im unable to agree. Essentially I agree with what the adjudicator  
said. 
The recommendation to invest in Stirling Mortimer was made  in 2009. At the time Gemini 
wasnt Mrs Hs advisers.  Gemini wasnt set up until 2012, some  three  years  later.  Gemini  
was a new company  and a separate entity to Stirling Associates. As such Gemini  wont 
ordinarily be responsible  for what Stirling Associates had done earlier, including any advice 
that Mrs H was given. 
I can understand why Mrs H considers Gemini should be responsible,  given how Gemini 
came to be set up and the links with Stirling  Associates. And of course the adviser was the 
same throughout. But its the firm he worked  for, rather than him as an individual, thats 
responsible if a customer is unhappy  with the advice that hes been given. 
Ref: DRN70668083I note all Mrs H says about  the way in which the transfer was presented to her  as an 
automatic, unilateral  and seamless transfer  which wouldnt result  in any changes  for her. But 
that doesnt alter the fact that Gemini was a new company and a separate  legal  entity. In my 
view Gemini isnt responsible for advice given earlier, by a different entity and before Gemini  
was set up. 
Mrs H says the adjudicators view is too narrow  and is based just on the legal  position.  But I 
do have to take into account  the legal position. Were governed by the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules.  DISP  3.6.1R requires me to determine  a complaint by reference to what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.  And DISP 3.6.4R says 
that, in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case,  the 
ombudsman will take into account,  amongst  other things, relevant law and regulations.
Mrs H says she didnt sign any new terms of business with Gemini and so the existing 
Stirling Associates conditions applied. But theres  a dispute about  that. Gemini  says that 
Mrs H was given its new terms of business although Gemini doesnt have a signed copy on 
its file. But in any event  I dont agree that the term Mrs H has pointed  to operates  in the way 
shes suggested and entitles her to insist  her money is refunded. 
Further, and in any event,  I think what Mrs H was or wasnt told about  the investment, 
including when she would be able to redeem it, is a matter between  her and Stirling  
Associates. I havent considered that. All Im looking at is Mrs Hs complaint against Gemini. 
I dont think Gemini is responsible for the advice Stirling Associates gave. So I havent 
looked into the suitability or otherwise of that advice,  including what  Mrs H was told about 
the investment,  its terms and the risks.  
Ive also thought about if the letter dated  9 March 2012 indicated  that Gemini  would be 
responsible for advice  given earlier by Stirling Associates. But I dont think it did. Transferring  
the servicing or agency for Mrs Hs investments  didnt mean  that Gemini became  
responsible for the original advice to invest.  The letter makes  is clear that Gemini is a new 
advisory firm. I dont  think theres anything to suggest that Gemini  remained part of 
Stirling Associates or that Gemini would be responsible for anything that had gone on 
before. 
I understand Mrs H has submitted a claim to FSCS. I dont know  what the outcome was and, 
if successful, to what extent Mrs Hs losses  were  met .Theres  a limit to the amount that 
FSCS will pay if a claim is successful  and so Mrs Hs losses may not be met in full. That is of 
course not at all satisfactory  from Mrs Hs point  of view. I can understand her frustration and 
annoyance. But, unfortunately  and despite my sympathy for Mrs H, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think she can look to Gemini to meet  any losses shes incurred as a result 
of investing in Stirling Mortimer.   
I think the settlement  suggested by the adjudicator  and which  Gemini  is prepared to meet is 
reasonable. 
Gemini has agreed to refund to Mrs H the on going adviser fees which Gemini has received 
plus simple interest at 8% (which should be from the date of deduction up to the date of 
payment). As the payment is to be made  direct to Mrs H a deduction equivalent to tax at 
basic rate will be made.  Thats fair as it represents  money that would otherwise have been 
paid to Mrs H out of her pension fund and subject to tax. In addition  Gemini has offered to 
pay Mrs H £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN70668084Ive made  an award accordingly. Im not going  to ask Gemini to do any more. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Gemini Financial Planning Ltd should make pay Mrs H as Ive 
set out above.  
Details of the calculation should  be supplied to Mrs H in a clear and simple  format.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7066808