K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a regular  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
background
Mr B took out a credit card in March 1995.  At the same  time as taking out his credit card  few 
he was sold a PPI policy by Barclays. 
The policy cost 0.69p per £100  of the balance on Mr Bs credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr B was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  Mr B made it clear in 
his application  he wanted the policy and that it provided a useful benefit.  
Mr B disagreed. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Bs 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr B he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose 
to take it. Mr B says he took out the credit card and PPI by post and Barclays - though it still 
has the credit card application  - say it cant tell if the policy was sold in branch or by post. So 
I dont know what was discussed with Mr B at the time he was sold the policy but Ive seen a 
copy of his original  credit  card application  where  he was given the option to select to take 
PPI or decline it. I can see Mr B selected  to take PPI on the application form if he didnt want 
PPI he couldve left the selection  clear.
So I think he wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit  card.  And I 
think PPI was likely applied to his account because  he chose to take it  I havent seen 
anything to suggest otherwise. 
I dont know if Barclays recommended Mr B take the policy  so to be fair to Mr B I am going to 
treat the sale as if Barclays  advised Mr B to take the policy. What this means is that Barclays 
not only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so 
that Mr B could make an informed choice about  buying it. It also had to make  sure that if it 
were to recommend  the policy that it was suitable  to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr B for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN72941372At the time of the sale Mr B says he was entitled to sick and redundancy pay which  
he could use to make his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of this and for potentially  longer  covering him for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work or lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve  provided a useful benefit  
to Mr B in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
if he no longer wanted  the policy he couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Barclays gave  Mr B information in a way which  was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr B has told us about  his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy  if hed been given all 
the proper information on the policy.  
And so it is for this reason  I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint  against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294137