K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc persuaded them  to switch to an 
interest only offset mortgage. They  say theyd have taken out a repayment mortgage if this 
had been offered. Theyd like compensation for the extra cost of the interest only mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an interest  only offset  mortgage with NatWest  in 2006. They say they 
went to their branch  to open a business  account. Mr and Mrs W say the meeting turned into 
a financial review during  which NatWest  recommended the mortgage. They say no other  
mortgages were discussed or offered.
Mr and Mrs W say the interest only mortgage  was mis-sold and theyd have been better  off 
with a repayment mortgage.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said it was 
likely the mortgage  sale was advised.  However, Mr and Mrs W already had an interest only 
mortgage with NatWest for the same  amount.  The new mortgage  had the offset facility and a 
lower interest rate. The investigator said she couldnt be sure what  was discussed  at the 
meeting. Given Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  and commitments at the time, the mortgage  
was suitable. She said even  if a repayment  mortgage had been discussed it was likely  theyd  
have taken out the interest only offset mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  said their complaint is that NatWest gave them advice and 
a recommendation   which they didnt ask for  to change  to the offset  mortgage  without 
offering alternatives. Mr and Mrs W said had they not changed mortgage at this time its 
likely they would have  applied for a different type of mortgage. They said they were 
ambushed at a meeting about  a business  account  by staff with incentives to sell other 
products.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W went to a meeting at NatWests branch on 2 March 2006. It was at this 
meeting they agreed to take out a new mortgage. They also took out other  products at the 
meeting and later found out theyd  been  mis-sold PPI. Mr and Mrs W say they arent 
complaining about these  other products here, but I appreciate this has undermined their trust 
in NatWest.
NatWest has said the mortgage was sold on a non-advised basis.  While its documents   
including the mortgage offer  record this, I think the circumstances of the meeting  make it 
likely the mortgage  was sold on an advised  basis. 
From what  Mr and Mrs W have said, they didnt intend before the 2006 meeting  to make 
changes to their mortgage.  They wanted to discuss a business  account. Mr and Mrs W said 
there were three NatWest employees  at the meeting.  One was there  to discuss  mortgages. 
Ref: DRN71429492The form completed at the meeting headed  your mortgage  your choice is signed by a 
NatWest employee described as an adviser.  The form said that Mr and Mrs W had a 
mortgage product  in mind  an offset  mortgage. I think  its more  likely this was suggested  by 
NatWest. I think  this was in reality an advised sale.
NatWest didnt have  to provide a choice of mortgages to Mr and Mrs W. But it did have to 
ensure any mortgage  it recommended  was suitable for them. It should have taken 
reasonable steps to obtain  all information likely to be relevant to its recommendation. And it 
needed to give Mr and Mrs W clear information so that they could make an informed  
decision about whether to take out the mortgage.
NatWest completed an application form with information about Mr and Mrs Ws income  and 
financial commitments. It didnt do a fact find. NatWest didnt, so far as I can tell, ask Mr and 
Mrs W for all of the information it needed  to ensure the recommendation was suitable   such  
as whether they preferred  a repayment mortgage or interest only mortgage.
I dont think NatWest met its responsibilities  to Mr and Mrs W here.  It didnt ask for all of the 
information it needed to ensure the mortgage  was suitable. This doesnt  mean  the mortgage 
wasnt suitable  but it does mean NatWest cant provide  evidence  that it took the necessary 
steps to ensure that it was. 
NatWest did provide information about  the mortgage, such  as the mortgage offer. The 
meeting when the mortgage was discussed  was on 2 March 2006.  The mortgage offer was 
issued on 17 March.  And the mortgage was opened on 25 April.  So while Mr and Mrs W 
werent expecting  to discuss their mortgage  before they went to the meeting, I think they did 
have time to think about whether to take out the new mortgage  afterwards.
what were the consequences for Mr and Mrs W of switching mortgages?
From what  Mr and Mrs W have said, they didnt expect to discuss their mortgage at the 2006 
meeting. They say if NatWest hadnt  raised  this, their previous mortgage would have 
remained in place. 
Mr and Mrs Ws previous  mortgage was also an interest only mortgage. The interest  rate on 
their previous mortgage was higher. And it didnt  have  the offset facility  which, while there 
was a positive  balance in the linked accounts,  meant Mr and Mrs W would pay less interest.  
Their monthly payments  reduced by about £100.  There was an arrangement  fee of £245.  
Mr and Mrs W say had NatWest offered it, theyd have taken out a repayment mortgage.  
They say their business profits were increasing  and they could have afforded higher  monthly  
repayments (especially  if they hadnt taken out new pension policies at the same meeting).
The mortgage application form says Mr and Mrs W had credit card debt of about £8,000  
carried over each month, a loan from another bank with about  £4,000  outstanding, and an 
overdraft on a business account  of about £6,000. 
Its difficult now to assess what Mr and Mrs W would have said if NatWest  had carried out a 
fact find. 
The Your Mortgage  Your Choice form, completed  at the meeting, said Mr and Mrs W 
wanted to pay their mortgage  off as early as possible by over paying, making lump sum 
reductions and offsetting. The offset  mortgage allowed Mr and Mrs W to make overpayments 
Ref: DRN71429493and to pay funds  into the offset  account when available  and pay less, or withdraw funds, 
when they needed to. At a time when their business was growing but they had debts  to 
repay this might have  been attractive to them. A capital and interest repayment mortgage 
would have had higher  monthly payments and less flexibility.  
The offset mortgage didnt have an early  repayment  charge or other  restrictions on 
repayment. There was nothing to prevent Mr and Mrs W asking to switch to a repayment 
mortgage later. They  didnt  do this. Based on the available evidence, I think  its unlikely that 
they would  have taken out a repayment mortgage in March  2006.
I dont think the switch to the offset  mortgage  caused any loss to Mr and Mrs W. The interest 
rate and monthly payments  for the new mortgage were lower  than their previous mortgage. 
The cost of the product fee would  have been recouped  within a few months.  And they had 
the flexibility of the offset facility.
I think NatWest  made errors  here. It didnt obtain  all the information  it needed to ensure the 
mortgage it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W. But I dont think this caused Mr 
and Mrs W any loss. Mr and Mrs W say they can afford to repay the mortgage before the 
term expires. So I wont require NatWest to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs W or to do 
anything more in response to their complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142949