K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992 Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr K aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it 
to his card. Theres limited information  available from the time Mr K applied for the PPI but 
this isnt surprising  considering how long ago the sale took place  and that businesses  arent 
required to keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available I 
dont have enough to say that BoS didnt  make Mr K aware  the policy was optional,  or that 
he didnt choose  to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr K 
has told us he cant recall  the level of sick pay he would have been entitled  to, he had some  
savings and other insurance  that he could have  used  to help make his repayments. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr K would have been entitled to. The 
PPI would also have  allowed  Mr K to keep his savings in place to be used towards other  
expenses he may have had. 
While Mr K has told us he had several  other policies in place at the time the policy was sold, 
he has unfortunately not been able to provide  evidence of what  the polices covered. I dont 
think this is unusual considering how long ago the sale took place, but without this 
information I am unable  to say the PPI would have been unsuitable. 
The PPI was relatively low cost considering the benefit it provided, and based on what Ive 
seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. So I think  it was right 
for him.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr K about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN71766042To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176604