K820x#14complaint
In 1987 Mr M requested  that his financial adviser  at The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited increase  his pension contributions to his personal pension  plan which was set up in 
1984. However, the adviser set up a new pension policy instead. Mr M said his adviser  told 
him that this wouldnt make a difference, but Mr M has since suspected  that almost all of the 
extra contributions were taken as commission  and that this wouldnt have been the case if 
contributions were added  to the original pension  policy instead.  
He also says that when he later requested  that the Prudential transfer his pension  to his 
company pension scheme, it sent the funds to the wrong company. Then when the money  
was returned to it, Prudential set up another  policy  to hold the funds. 
background
In 1984 Mr M set up a personal pension plan with Prudential  paying £20 per month gross.  
This plan had a guaranteed basic annuity  based  on the premium payment date and the 
intended retirement date,  as well as other factors. The set retirement date was July 2018. 
His last payment to this policy  was in 1988.
In 1987 Mr M requested  that his adviser  increase his pension contributions.  The Prudential  
adviser set up a new policy to accommodate Mr Ms request, also for £20 gross per month  
but with an additional premium of £8.50  per month  to provide £50,000 of life cover. Mr M 
only paid into this plan for six months with contributions ending in 1988 - the same as the 
first policy.
In 1988 Mr M had joined his new employers pension scheme - Colston Computers PLC 
(Plan 88). It was at this point that Mr M stopped  contributions  into both personal pensions 
with Prudential.
In 1993 there is evidence  of a request to transfer  Mr Ms Occupational Pension Scheme with 
Colston Computers PLC (Plan 88) to Prudential.  However this did not complete. Mr M says 
that there  was actually  a request to transfer his Prudential pension to his occupational 
scheme  but Prudential  did not carry this out correctly.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and was of the opinion it should  not be 
upheld. 
Mr M did not agree with the adjudicators view of his complaint  and said:
He was totally mis-sold the second  policy.
He didnt ask for life insurance.
That having to wait for the anniversary of the first policy to make  contributions  into it 
wasnt explained to him at the time.
That the third policy  was created after Prudentials  failure  to pay the money into his 
company scheme.
Ref: DRN71355592Therefore the complaint has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first Prudential pension plan that Mr M took out started in July 1984. The application for 
the second plan was made in September 1987. As Prudential  has said that increases  to the 
first policy could only be made on a policy anniversary, Mr M would have had to wait until 
July 1988 to pay further money into that pension. Mr M says he was simply under the 
impression that the adviser had done what  he wanted  increased the pension contribution 
to his existing  plan. He says he was not told another plan had been set up.
It is difficult, over 30 years  from the time the second policy  was taken out, to know what  was 
discussed and on what basis  the decisions were made. But even if Mr M had not been told 
he was setting up a new pension, he would have been faced with the choice of waiting 
almost a year to increase contributions to his first policy or setting up another  policy.  It is not 
clear to me that, faced that with choice, he would have waited, especially considering  that it 
would not have been known at the time that his contribution would cease  only six months 
after he started the second policy.  Given that the expectation would be that this would  be a 
long term policy, there  would be no particular reason not to start it. So I do not uphold this 
point of complaint.
With respect to the life cover taken out at the same time, Mr M signed the application for it 
and the application contained medical and lifestyle information. I think  it unlikely that could 
have been completed without Mr Ms knowledge.  So I am persuaded that it was, more  likely, 
agreed to take out the life cover at the time.  
third plan/transfer
Mr M suggests that this was a transfer  from Prudential to his company pension  scheme 
which did not complete.  He says he asked Prudential to transfer his fund(s)  to Plan 88. Plan 
88 was eventually transferred to another insurance  company.  
However the evidence suggests that what happened  was that a request was made  to 
transfer the benefits of Plan 88 to the Prudential. This was then cancelled  during the transfer 
process and the money instead  sent to Temple Court.  There is a letter from the Prudential to 
Temple Court dated December 1993.  This says a cheque  is enclosed for about £5,800 
which is payable to Standard Life. It is said this is the transfer value of Mr Ms Colston 
Computers pension plan.  The letter says:
Please note that (Mr M's) request to transfer his benefits into the Prudential Personal  
Pension Scheme (PPPS) had not been  completed, and therefore the enclosed cheque  
represents a refund and not a transfer  from the PPPS.
There is a note on the Prudentials records from December 1993 which says:
Member has changed his mind  before completing  pension transfer. Has decided to transfer 
to Standard Life via IFA
Ref: DRN71355593This does  suggest  that the transfer  was from the company scheme  to Prudential but this was 
then aborted before  the transfer completed and the money was sent to another insurance  
company. 
The Prudential has confirmed that no third policy was set up because the transfer never  
completed. 
I have not seen any evidence of a request to Prudential to transfer out Mr Ms Prudential  
pension benefits  to an employers scheme or evidence that Prudential  did not carry this out. 
So I do not uphold  this point of complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135559