K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  have  treated him unfairly in relation  to how it 
has dealt with what it says are the breaches of his agreement with it.
background
Mr K had a car supplied  under a conditional sale agreement by Moneybarn.  Mr K fell behind 
with his repayments. He suggested he was unaware  of this because Moneybarn  failed to 
contact him by email  as he had previously told it that it must do.
Eventually, Mr K found out that Moneybarn intended to go to court to repossess the car. 
Mr K offered  to repay the arrears so he could keep  the car. The parties were going to do this 
by way of a consent order. However, Moneybarn asked for information  to show  that the car 
was taxed and it insured  before it would  agree  to this. When  it found  that the car had been  
taxed and insured  overseas it refused to continue to negotiate with him. Mr K indicated  this 
was unfair  because according  to him, it knew before this that he had taken the car overseas. 
But it was only now it was objecting  to what he had done.
Moneybarn went to court and got an order to repossess the car. Mr K told us he was told by 
Moneybarn that it had made a mistake in repossessing the car. Mr K also told us Moneybarn 
was refusing to accept  repayments from him because  it only wants the full amount or 
nothing. Mr K objected  to this inflexible approach. 
Further, Mr K also objected  to Moneybarn adding what he called legal fees to the amount 
he owes. As a result  the debt keeps on growing. He thought this was wrong  because  
Moneybarn did this without telling him and without telling him why it is adding these fees. He 
suggested he had already  made repayments that came close  to the original cash  price  of the 
car. He thought  this had not been  properly taken  into account by Moneybarn  in its dealings  
with him.
In terms of what should happen  next. Mr K offered to let Moneybarn keep the repayments he 
has made so far. He suggested hed also be willing to pay a further  £2,800 in instalments. 
That would mean he would repay  the full original cash price of the car. He didnt agree it was 
correct he should  pay Moneybarn the amount it is asking for. This is because  as he sees it 
that would  mean he was paying it around  £20,000  for a car that even at the beginning of his 
agreement was worth only half that amount. Mr K would  only be willing  to do this though if 
Moneybarn agreed  to remove the negative  information which  it has registered on his credit 
file. Mr K thought this information had prevented him from getting new credit.
Moneybarns stance  was it had done nothing  wrong. It had contacted  Mr K in the way he told 
it that it could (mail, email, text messages, and by phone). It had let him know about the 
arrears as they built up. And it had tried to get him to resolve the arrears issue  but he had 
not.
Moneybarn suggested  it had not been aware that Mr K had taken the car overseas. By doing  
this Mr K had breached  his agreement with it. In addition,  it had agreed  with Mr K that it 
would ask for a consent order from the court along with him subject to several provisos.  One 
of the provisos  was he should prove that the car was taxed and insured  in line with the 
agreement. Ive already summarised above what happened when Mr K did that. The other 
provisos were that he should before they went to court, send it information about his financial 
Ref: DRN75898182situation and make a payment to it. However, he did neither. On that basis it went  to court  
and got a court order to repossess the car.
Dissatisfied, Mr K came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short,  
based on all the information he had available to him he didnt agree that Moneybarn had 
acted unfairly. The agreement had been  breached.  Mr K knew this. He had agreed he would 
follow certain steps in order to apply for the consent  order with Moneybarn.  But he hadnt 
followed through. So Moneybarn had got an order to repossess  the car instead.  Moneybarn 
was insisting he act in line with the relevant  terms of the conditional sale agreement.  Mr K 
was unhappy  with this, but Moneybarn was entitled  to do this. In summary, our investigator 
concluded he had no proper basis to tell Moneybarn it had to act differently.
Moneybarn accepted our investigators  recommendation,  Mr K did not. In brief, he 
responded to say, he was disappointed. He repeated that he needed Moneybarn to contact 
him by email only and he had told it this. But it chose to contact him by email only to tell him 
about the arrears.  It would not use email for any other purpose. He also repeated  what he 
had already said about Moneybarns refusal to accept his payment  proposals.
Mr K added that due to the nature of his role he was obliged to take the car overseas. He 
suggested because  he is in a profession  that benefits from special protection Moneybarn 
ought not to have been able to use this against him.
We could progress no further at this stage  so I was asked to take a look at Mr Ks complaint  
and to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Mr Ks complaint. I am not upholding it. I realise this is likely  to 
upset Mr K. That is not my intention, far from it. Please let me explain why I have  reached  
this decision.
It appears that the parties agree that Mr K had run up arrears on his account. He suggested,  
originally at least that he was unaware  of this because the business  didnt contact him by the 
only reliable means of communication he had - that is email. 
However, Moneybarns  records  show Mr K was emailed several times about the arrears as 
and when they built up. It also seems  from these records that the emails  did not bounce 
back this suggest  they reached him. I have  no reason to doubt the accuracy of these 
records. And it seems Mr K does  now accept that Moneybarn told him about  the arrears  by 
email. Nothing I have seen shows that Mr K cleared the arrears  in response or showed  that 
he did not owe them. In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable that Moneybarn took 
steps to stop the arrears growing further  and to get its car back  via the courts.
Mr K and Moneybarn both agree that at first they agreed theyd seek a consent order from 
the court, so that Mr K could keep the car. But this was conditional on three things. These 
were Mr K making  a payment to Moneybarn, Mr K providing information about  his current 
financial situation, and Mr K providing proof  of having taxed  and insured the car in line with 
Ref: DRN75898183the conditional sale agreement. This is where  things began  to go even more awry for Mr K I 
think.
As far as I can see he didnt make the payment  Moneybarn asked for. He says he did 
provide information  about his income  and expenditure  Moneybarn says he didnt. But I think  
this made  no difference because he had already it seems broke one of the three conditions. 
Thirdly the information  he provided about the road tax and the insurance show  hed not 
taxed and insured  the car in the UK as he was obliged to do. Mr K says he told Moneybarn 
about taking the car out of the country  prior to all of this, so it is unfair that it turns  around  
now and says this is a breach of his agreement. But he does not explain when he told 
Moneybarn this and neither has he demonstrated  that it agreed. If the agreement  had been 
varied in this way Id have expected to see this variation documented somewhere. But I have 
seen no such record. On this basis I find it unlikely that Moneybarn had agreed to him taking 
the car out of the country as he did and taxing and insuring the car overseas. It follows  that 
as he did not keep to the conditions Moneybarn had imposed and hed accepted,  I think it is 
fair that Moneybarn refused to apply  for the consent order.
Instead Moneybarn  got an order from a court to repossess the car. Mr K objects to what  he 
calls legal  fees being applied to his account.  But if these are the costs that the court  
awarded, Ive no power to waive these only the courts  can. Further  Mr K indicates  that 
Moneybarn told him it had made a mistake in applying for the court order.  He had not 
explained the nature of this mistake.  Moneybarn hasnt told us it made  a mistake in going  
to court.  But this is by the by I think. Because if Mr K thinks  the order  granted  by the court  is 
flawed in some way, again, this is a matter for the courts. I cant change  the court order or 
say Moneybarn cant rely on it. I dont have this power.
Mr K appears to be offering to pay only the original cash  price  of the car. But that is not what 
he agreed under his agreement with Moneybarn. He is obliged to pay far more  than this. 
Moneybarn can agree to accept  less but it is not obliged  to. And in the circumstances I cant  
see why it would be fair and reasonable to say Moneybarn  must  accept thousands  of pounds 
below what it is owed  by Mr K. Mr K may find it unfair that Moneybarn  is insisting on the full 
debt but that is what it is entitled to ask for. 
That said,  if Mr K cant pay the full amount in one go. Id expect Moneybarn  to come to an 
arrangement with him about how he will pay the full amount over time. He will need to speak 
to Moneybarn directly about  that. I would also expect Moneybarn  to give Mr K a full 
breakdown of the precise amount it is asking him for and why, if it has not already done  that. 
Given what Mr K has said about his communication needs I would expect Moneybarn to 
contact Mr K only by email until such time as he says otherwise.
I dont agree in the circumstances that Moneybarn has acted unfairly. On that basis  if it has 
asked the credit reference agencies to register information about how he has conducted  the 
account, I cant fairly ask it to remove it. When it reports to credit reference agencies  
Moneybarn must provide  accurate information, which from what  Mr K says it has done. 
Although I have not seen a copy of his credit file so I dont know exactly  what  information it 
has asked to be registered.
Mr K does a very valuable  role which benefits the nation. It would look very closely  at any 
action that Moneybarn had taken against Mr K that arose because  of his role and how he is 
obliged to perform it. However, it seems  this is not the case  here. Rather, as I have set out 
above, he was taken to court due to arrears. I think he ought to have known he had arrears.  
Moneybarn applied for a court order to get its car back because  he did not comply  with the 
Ref: DRN75898184conditions that were set by Moneybarn for it to support getting a consent order.  It seems that 
Moneybarn is now only asking Mr K to comply with the terms of the credit agreement  that he 
freely entered into with it. None of this seems  to have come about due to Mr Ks profession  
and the requirements  of that profession. In these  circumstances I think I have no proper 
basis to tell Moneybarn  it has to behave differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7589818