K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C applied for a further advance with Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) 
and are unhappy that the surveyor said the property wasnt  suitable security for lending.
background
On 7 March 2017 Mr and Mrs C applied for a Halifax mortgage via an independent mortgage 
broker to buy their current home.  The mortgage application  form noted the valuation type 
required as Valuation  and a fee of £500  was paid. A (level one) basic  mortgage  valuation 
was completed on 14 March 2017  which noted the property is in an area where there is a 
risk of flooding, and gave  a valuation of £350,000.
Due to issues with the vendor Mr and Mrs C decided to proceed with a different  property.  A 
revised mortgage application was submitted and this time the application form noted the 
valuation type required as Survey and Valuation  and a fee of £940 was paid.
The surveyor contacted  Halifax to say that type of survey - known as a level two - wasnt 
possible for the property  due to the age and size of it. Halifax  let Mr and Mrs Cs broker  know 
and whilst it was awaiting confirmation  of whether Mr and Mrs C wanted  a level one or a 
level three survey instead, the first property  became  available again. The valuation for the 
second property  was cancelled and the application  was amended  back to the first property. 
After some delays Halifax refunded the £940  second survey fee to Mr and Mrs C.
The mortgage completed on the original  property in June 2017  and Mr and Mrs C moved  in.
After carrying out some  renovations, Mr and Mrs C approached Halifax  for a further advance 
in 2018. A mortgage valuation was carried out on 3 May 2018 and that again noted  the 
property is in an area where there  is a risk of flooding, but this time gave a nil valuation; in 
effect saying the property  wasnt suitable security for a Halifax  mortgage.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs C complained to Halifax. Halifax  offered them £75 
compensation for the delay in refunding  the £940 fee in 2017, but other than that it rejected 
their complaint. Halifax said both the surveyors (that is the one from 2017 and the one from 
2018) were  satisfied that they had reported correctly, and it offered to arrange for a further 
valuation by a different  surveyor  to be carried out, free of charge. Mr and Mrs C accepted the 
£75 for the delay,  but rejected the rest of Halifaxs findings.
Our investigator thought the offer was fair, saying Halifax did nothing wrong in relying on the 
valuation reports.  Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree  and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
Ref: DRN78813782means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should  be asked and 
answered. For that reason I wont be answering  all Mr and Mrs Cs questions,  nor will I be 
ordering Halifax to answer them.
Firstly I need to correct Mr and Mrs Cs belief that Halifax did something  wrong  in not 
instructing a homebuyer  (level two valuation) report in 2017. Theyve provided a copy of the 
mortgage application form which they say shows they requested a homebuyer report, but in 
fact it shows the opposite.  The form theyve  provided shows  their mortgage broker said the 
valuation type required was a Valuation and a fee of £500 was paid; that was a basic  (level 
one) mortgage report, which  is what  was completed  on 14 March  2017.
Had a homebuyer (level  two valuation)  report  been requested it would have  said the 
valuation type required was Survey and Valuation  (as it was for the second property they 
looked at buying) and a much higher fee would have been paid (as it was for the second 
property). So having considered everything  Im satisfied Halifax didnt  make  a mistake  in 
only instructing a (level  one) basic mortgage valuation in 2017.
Halifax doesnt have  the expertise to value property,  so it employs the services  of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in both 2017 and 2018  by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS). 
Halifax is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against  it for things a separate  business  did (or didnt do). The 2017 valuation  
was carried out by an independent third party surveying firm so all I can consider against 
Halifax in relation to the 2017  valuation is if it discharged  its duty in instructing  a suitable firm 
of surveyors, and having considered everything Im satisfied  it did. Weve no power to 
compel that business to get involved in this complaint, nor can we consider its actions in this 
complaint against  Halifax.  Mr and Mrs C have asked why the 2017 firm is no longer on 
Halifaxs panel. Thats easy to answer, and theres  no sinister reason. Its simply that Halifax  
no longer uses a panel of surveyors and instead sends all its instructions to one firm.
2018 is slightly different  as this time the valuation was carried out by Colleys,  which was also 
part of the Bank of Scotland group. This means I can consider more here, but I can only go 
so far. Its not my role to replace the Colleys surveyors professional  opinion  with my own;  
that would  be highly  inappropriate. Instead  I need  to consider if the report  is obviously 
flawed, and having done so Im not persuaded that it obviously is. Both surveyors agreed the 
property is in an area where there  is a risk of flooding, the difference being that they didnt 
agree whether that rendered the property unsuitable  security for a Halifax mortgage.
Theres clearly  a difference  in opinion between the 2017 and 2018 surveyors and the best 
way to resolve that  as Halifax has already offered  is for a third survey  to be carried out. 
Mr and Mrs C have questioned whether  that would be independent and I can confirm  it 
would be as the surveying firm Halifax  has said it would use are legally  independent from 
Halifax and are one of the largest  surveying firms in the country. The firm has carried  out 
surveys for many different lenders and will have to follow  RICS  guidelines.  Halifax  will 
instruct that the individual surveyor cant be a former employee of either the 2017 or 2018 
surveying firms, again to keep that degree of distance.
Im not saying which of the two reports was right, as thats not my place  to do here. All I will 
say is that if the 2017 report was wrong  and shouldnt have recommended the property as 
Ref: DRN78813783suitable security then thats a matter Mr and Mrs C will have to take up with the surveying  
firm directly themselves. Thats because Halifax has no responsibility, under our rules,  for 
the contents of that report and it was allowed to rely upon the contents  on it when deciding  
whether to lend.  Any errors in that report are between Mr and Mrs C and the surveying firm, 
irrespective of the fact Halifax instructed the valuation report.
And if the 2018  report was wrong  and the property is suitable security, then the correct  way 
to resolve that is for the third valuation to now be completed. If that third valuation  says the 
property is suitable  security then Id expect Halifax to consider the further advance 
application as normal. If Halifax then didnt do so thats a new complaint  Mr and Mrs C could 
make at the time, and it could be referred  to us if they were unhappy with Halifaxs  response 
(subject to our usual  rules, of course)
Alternatively Mr and Mrs C are able to look into the possibility of moving their mortgage to a 
different lender, but thats  on the understanding we dont  know  what any valuation  report  
completed for that new lender  may say.
Ive asked our investigator to send Mr and Mrs C copies of both the valuation reports as 
theyve requested. Mr and Mrs C have said they also want  to see the professional 
information/reports/agencies [the surveyors] used to determine the risk.  As those arent 
things we needed to determine  this complaint (as its not in our remit to replace a 
professional surveyors  opinion with our own)  we dont have them  on file. Mr and Mrs C are 
free to contact both surveying firms directly  if they want to request any further information, 
but we wouldnt  get involved in that, nor would we require  Halifax  to.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider  Halifax offered a fair resolution in its 
response to the complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs C to decide if now  on reflection  they 
want to accept that offer. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7881378