K821x#15complaint
Mr E isnt satisfied with how Barclays Bank PLC has dealt with his self-invested pension plan 
(SIPP). Mr E is unhappy that Barclays wont provide certificates proving his ownership of two 
investments that it says have a nil value. This means hes unable to sell them.  Mr E is also 
unhappy with the SIPP fees hes been asked to pay. He wants  Barclays to pay him the true 
value of his investments. 
background
Mr E opened  a PensionMaster SIPP with Barclays in 2011.  The SIPP allows  him to invest  
the contributions  hes paid into to it. Barclays act as his stockbroker to buy and sell the 
investments. The SIPP  account is administered by a business that Ill call AJB. 
Over the years Mr E used his Barclays SIPP to buy and sell various different investments. 
One of these investments was in an overseas mining company who Ill call AR. Another was 
in a professional  sporting club who Ill call R. 
In January 2016 Mr E decided to transfer his investments  to a different SIPP provider. 
Barclays transferred cash of around  £7,300  to the new provider. This was the amount Mr E 
got from the sale of the majority of his investments along with the cash  he had in his 
Barclays SIPP. But the investments in AR and R couldnt be sold as the shares in these 
companies had been  de-listed from the relevant  stock market. 
Barclays told Mr E that after the transfer,  as only the two de-listed investments would be left 
in his SIPP  and these couldnt  be traded   it wouldnt charge him any fees. In March 2017, 
just over £1,900  was paid into Mr Es Barclays SIPP. This was related to his investment in 
AR. This was transferred  to his new SIPP a couple of months  later. 
Mr E then spoke to Barclays to ask for share certificates for his de-listed investments as he 
wanted to sell them. In early June 2017 Barclays told him it could arrange  a certificate for his 
investment in R but not for AR. 
Soon after, Barclays  announced it was moving  all its PensionMaster  SIPPs to a new online 
system called Smart Investor. This new platform would have different fees from Mr Es 
PensionMaster SIPP.  Barclays  pointed out that where a portfolio had a low value or, as was 
the case with Mr E, no market value,  then even a small  fixed fee could  be a significant  cost 
compared to the overall value of the portfolio. It said one of the fees,  a £4 monthly fee, 
wouldnt apply for the first 12 months. 
Then, in mid-July 2017, Barclays told Mr E it wouldnt  be able to provide certificates for either 
stock. The bank logged  a complaint about Mr E being given wrong information and his 
unhappiness over paying fees.  
Barclays told Mr E it was sorry hed been  given incorrect information. It offered him £50 for 
this. The bank also apologised  for how long it had taken  to look at his complaint. Barclays 
offered Mr E a further £100 for this delay.  It also pointed  out that the monthly  £4 fee had 
been waived for the first 12 months and gave an outline of what  charges Mr E could now 
expect to pay for his SIPP. This included an annual administration fee of £150 payable  in 
quarterly instalments to AJB. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with this response  and emailed Barclays with further questions about  why 
the bank was listing his investments in AR and R as having a nil value.  He said Barclays  had 
Ref: DRN76491002previously suggested  that to be able to close the SIPP  he could donate  these shares to 
charity  why do that if they were of no value?  Mr E also brought  his complaint to our 
service. 
Barclays again told him that AR and R both had a current value of nil, but this would be 
updated if the shares became tradeable in the market. The bank also explained that 
because there was a chance for any shares  to be bought outside the market at a reduced 
cost, there was a small opportunity that charities could possibly benefit from this. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Es complaint. In summary, she didnt think  Barclays  
had dealt with Mr Es issues very well. She thought Barclays should increase its offer to Mr E 
from £150 to £250  for the trouble and upset  hed experienced. Barclays  didnt agree. Mr E 
also wasnt happy. He said he wanted Barclays to cancel his SIPP and send  him his share 
certificates. He was also unhappy that AJB had told him his quarterly administration fee was 
due. So this complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr E has made  numerous points in support  of his complaint. Im very aware 
that Ive summarised  the situation in much less detail and in my own words.  Im not 
responding to each  individual  point. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider  to be the key 
issues here: the position regarding Mr Es investments in AR and R; and, the SIPP  fees. 
Our rules allow me to do this. No discourtesy is intended. This simply reflects  the informal  
nature of our service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  point to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
First, I would point out that I know our service has dealt with a previous complaint from Mr E 
about his AR shares being de-listed from the relevant stock market. This was dealt with and 
the matter closed at the start of 2016. I wont be commenting on these events  any further. 
Ill now turn to Mr Es current complaint. A SIPP typically allows a person to invest  their 
pension contributions in a wide range of investments. Mr E took out his Barclays  SIPP on an 
execution only basis. This means  Barclays doesnt give him any advice on what  investments 
to buy or sell. These decisions are the sole responsibility of Mr E. Barclays  simply carries out 
his instructions. 
Like most pension plans, there are tax advantages in making contributions  to a SIPP  and in 
the investments  that are made. There are numerous  rules and regulations that apply to 
SIPPs. Its HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC) regulations that are particularly relevant to 
Mr Es complaint. 
Mr Es SIPP  acts like a storage facility  for his investments and any cash  those investments 
might generate. Current rules normally mean someone can only start withdrawing  money  
from their SIPP  when  they reach their 55th birthday. Due to the tax advantages  Mr E 
benefitted from, his investments  need  to be held in a SIPP. He cant simply remove them  
from it because of the tax implications and any relevant liability  to pay HMRC.  The amount of 
that liability will depend on Mr Es individual tax circumstances. 
Ref: DRN76491003To avoid  any potential tax liability, if Mr E wants to close his SIPP, he needs  to either sell his 
investments, or transfer them to another appropriate storage facility,  such as a SIPP  with a 
different provider. 
But the problem  here is that shares  cant be readily bought and sold when a company is de-
listed from the relevant  market. Thats because there is no line of stock to trade. Usually,  
only active stocks on a stock exchange,  such as the London Stock  Exchange, can be traded. 
If the company has been de-listed then they no longer exist in any available stock exchange 
and there  is no market for them to trade. This lack of a readily  available  market and means 
of trading is why Mr Es investments in AR and R are showing  as having a nil value. 
The other problem  is finding another SIPP provider who is willing  to hold Mr Es two de-listed 
investments. It seems that when he transferred the majority  of his SIPP to another provider  
in 2016, the new provider  wouldnt accept  the de-listed investments. Thats  why he had to 
also keep his Barclays SIPP open. But if the other SIPP provider is happy to accept these 
investments, there doesnt seem to be any reason  why he cant now transfer  those 
investments to the other  SIPP, if he still has it. But I think its likely  the other provider didnt 
want to accept the investments because they were, and remain, de-listed.  
Its important to explain here that, as outlined in the SIPP terms and conditions, Mr E doesnt 
own the shares in AR and R. These are legally owned by the SIPP  trustee. What  Mr E is 
entitled to is the future benefits  of the SIPP which are payable under the rules of the SIPP 
and HMRC rules. 
Although Barclays list the value  of Mr Es investments as nil, in reality, they will have some 
actual value. But as theyre de-listed with no readily available  way of trading, its an almost 
impossible task to put a value on them. 
As Ive already  said, Mr Es Barclays SIPP was taken out on an execution only basis. The 
onus is on Mr E to explore  the options  open to him on how these investments can be either 
sold or transferred.  For example, especially in the case  of R, Mr E might be able to find a 
private buyer  for these shares. If that was the case,  I would expect  Barclays  and AJB to 
explain to him if such a sale was possible and, if it was, how this could  be done. 
And Ill repeat what Ive also already  said, the relevant HMRC  rules  and regulations  mean 
Mr E cant  simply take the investments out of the SIPP and sell them himself. He may 
choose to get some  independent advice, which he might have to pay for, on his options.  
Thats a decision for him. 
Ill now turn to the SIPP fees. When Mr E took out his SIPP,  he agreed to pay the relevant  
fees and charges for it. The tariff for these  would have covered  fees to both Barclays and the 
administrator, AJB. When Mr E transferred  the majority of his investments  to another  
provider at the start of 2016, Barclays agreed  to waive  his administration fees. This was a 
concession agreed  between the bank  and Mr E. Im satisfied it didnt permanently alter the 
SIPP terms and conditions. 
In June 2017 Barclays announced  it was changing  the way its SIPPs  worked. Effectively, 
Mr Es PensionMaster  SIPP was being  changed  to a Smart Investor SIPP. This meant  the 
terms and conditions, together  with the associated fees and charges, were being  changed.  
Ref: DRN76491004I can see that Mr E told us that Barclays changed  the account against  his wishes,  so his 
agreement with the bank is null and void. He also says he hasnt agreed to the current 
terms, which means he doesnt have a contract with Barclays. But thats not quite right.  
The SIPPs original terms and conditions included  an amendment  clause allowing  them  to be 
changed by giving Mr E 30 days written  notice. Barclays  gave Mr E such written notice. It 
told him in June 2017 that the account was being  changed around  two months later - at the 
end of August  2017. The bank also said that those  customers who didnt want  to change  to 
the new Smart Investor SIPP could move their investments without charge. 
Mr Es options at that time are exactly the same as they are now.  If he didnt want his 
account to change to a Smart Investor  SIPP, it was up to him to find a way of moving  his 
investments elsewhere  or to find a way of selling them. As he didnt do either, his account 
automatically became  a Smart Investor  SIPP, and was subject to the new terms and 
conditions. 
Im satisfied Barclays actions here were  fair and reasonable. It gave Mr E more than the 
required 30 days notice of the changes. The bank also agreed to waive its £4 monthly fee 
for the first 12 months. And it allowed those account holders who didnt want  to change, to 
move their accounts without charge. 
Additionally, while Ive been looking at this complaint, Barclays has agreed to suspend  its 
fees on Mr Es accounts, although he may still receive letters  about the fees. The fees would 
be reapplied if he restarted using his Barclays SIPP to make  investments. I think  Barclays  is 
acting fairly  and reasonably by suspending these fees. 
But, the administration fees to AJB are still payable. I would point out that even if there is no 
activity taking place  on Mr Es SIPP account,  there is still a cost in administering it, including 
various record keeping  and reporting requirements. So Im satisfied AJB is entitled to ask Mr 
E to pay the administration fees while his Barclays SIPP remains  open.  
Finally, Ill deal with the amount of compensation Barclays has offered to pay Mr E. It 
accepts that it gave him wrong information,  in early June 2017,  about sending him share 
certificates for R. But the bank soon corrected this mistake.  By the middle  of the following  
month Mr E knew it wouldnt send him the certificates. Barclays  also apologised for the delay 
in dealing with Mr Es complaint. In the circumstances here, Im satisfied  that £150 is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for these issues. 
But I can also see that Barclays  wrongly told Mr E he could donate  his shares  to charity as a 
way of removing  his shares  from the SIPP. But this couldnt be done because, as Ive said 
above, although Mr Es investments are listed  as having no value, in reality   however 
difficult it may be to establish their value  they are worth something. So donating them  to 
charity could be seen  as value  shifting  which can have significant  tax penalties. 
I think Barclays should pay Mr E a further  £100 on top of the £150  its already offered  so 
£250 in total  for this further issue. Im pleased to see that Barclays has now agreed to pay 
this extra  amount. 
I do sympathise with Mr E and the situation  he finds himself in with his two de-listed  
investments. But, by their very nature, investments arent risk free. As Ive said above, Mr E 
may want to seek independent  advice about  his options for these investments. Thats a 
decision for him. Its not something thats in the scope of our service. 
 
Ref: DRN76491005my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  PLC should pay £250  to Mr E. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7649100