K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Assurant General  Insurance  Limited (Assurant)  declined his claim for
a stolen laptop.
background
Mr A has gadget insurance provided  by Assurant,  through his bank account.  In May 2018
Mr As laptop was stolen  by a third party posing as a potential buyer.
Mr A says he and the third party met in the lobby of Mr As apartment block.  Hes explained 
the third party  said he wanted to buy the laptop and claimed hed transferred the money to 
Mr A, showing a screenshot  to indicate  an online transfer. They  stood in the lobby and 
waited some time as Mr A wanted to receive the money into his account.
Whilst waiting, Mr A says he also contacted his bank who said an online transfer  may take 
some hours to appear.  Mr A says he then decided to provide the third party with a written 
receipt as he didnt want to hand  over the laptop before the money  entered  his account.  Mr A 
says he planned  to deliver the laptop once  the money had come through.
Mr As wife came downstairs to give Mr A a pen and paper  so he could write the receipt. She 
then returned  upstairs.  Mr A says he kneeled by the table in the hallway to write  the receipt, 
with the laptop next to him. Whilst he was doing so, he says the third party took the laptop 
and ran out. Mr A never received the funds  into his account.
Mr A made a claim for the stolen  laptop, but Assurant  declined it under the terms and 
conditions of his policy. Theyve pointed to the section which  states What you are NOT 
covered for: Loss, theft or damage as a result  of not taking care of your device.
Assurant say Mr A didnt take enough  care of the laptop and highlighted the above 
exclusion, which states If you dont  take care of your device then we may not pay your 
claim. Assurant feel Mr A couldve  done  more to take care of his laptop, including asking his 
wife to stay with it or to take it back  up to their apartment. So they declined the claim.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this so he brought his complaint to our service where it was looked  
at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He felt the laptop had been left 
somewhere where it could  be stolen, and that Mr A couldve  done more to take reasonable 
care of it. So he thought  Assurant had fairly  declined the claim under  the policy.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion,  so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 5 March 2019. In it, I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I explained that, based on Mr As testimony of events  which  I saw no 
reason to question  and which Assurant  had not disputed  I thought  hed taken reasonable 
care of his laptop.  
Ref: DRN78137602My reasons  for this were  as follows: 
The laptop was next to Mr A as he was writing  the receipt, and hes told us it was 
within half an arms length. The policy exclusion states Taking  care of your device 
means  Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen. I 
dont think leaving the laptop within reach next to him on the table can reasonably  be 
considered as Mr A leaving it somewhere its likely to be stolen. 
Mr A was kneeling when the thief took the laptop, so it took him some time to jump 
up after him. I feel this is reasonable, and I think its realistic  for it to have taken a 
moment for the shock to register  before Mr A reacted. I dont think the fact he didnt 
intercept the thief means he wasnt taking  reasonable care. 
Mr A has said the thief was behind him, out of sight, while he was writing the receipt.  
But hes also explained  the laptop  was directly  next to him and not out of sight. The 
policy exclusion states If you knowingly leave your device  where  others can see it 
but you cannotwe  may not pay your claim and if you knowingly do any of the 
below we may decline your claimleaving your device somewhere you cant see it 
but others can. I dont  think this part of the exclusion applies, as the laptop was not 
out of Mr As sight. Expecting Mr A to also keep  the third party  in his sight  at all times 
is an unreasonable expectation. I think Mr A took sufficient care of his laptop by 
having it within his reach and in his sight.  
The policy states Assurant will always take into account where you are and what you 
are doing  when we assess  whether you have taken care of your device. If we believe 
you have not taken care of your device, and have  knowingly taken a risk with it, we 
may decline your claim. Assurant expect Mr A to take reasonable care with his 
laptop, which is fair. Theyve  made  suggestions as to actions Mr A couldve taken to 
avoid the laptop  being stolen. There will often  be something  more you couldve done 
to prevent a theft. But simply because another option was available  to Mr A doesnt 
mean he didnt take reasonable care.
Placing the laptop within reach  and in sight doesnt, in my opinion, amount to 
knowingly taking a risk. Mr A had been in the lobby with the laptop and the thief for 
some time. He seems  to have been  in very close proximity to it at all times. Ive seen 
a photograph of the area - its likely the laptop  was on the table for much  of the time 
they were standing there, as there doesnt  appear to be anywhere else to put it down. 
I cant say Mr As actions in the circumstances were unreasonable or careless.
So taking everything into account, my provisional  decision was that Assurant had not fairly 
declined Mr As claim. On this basis, I said I was minded to ask Assurant to reconsider 
Mr As claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
Mr A did not respond to my provisional  decision. 
Assurant responded  to say they disagreed with my provisional decision.  They  said theyd 
initially declined the claim under a different policy exclusion  and asked me to consider this.  
The exclusion states: 
We do not cover  any loss of your device or any loss of money expected from any 
transaction, through the sale or trade of your device. 
Ref: DRN78137603This is because the device will have been actively passed to an individual or business  and, 
therefore, no loss or theft has taken place. We therefore recommend you take precautions if 
you sell your device, such asWaiting for payment (including waiting for cheques to clear) 
before releasing  your device.
Assurant said they think this exclusion applies in Mr As circumstances, as hed advertised  
his laptop for sale and made arrangements to meet the buyer. They  felt Mr A had agreed  the 
sale and intended  to complete the transaction, which  is why he was writing out a receipt. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Ive considered the second policy exclusion which Assurant have raised. I understand they 
initially declined Mr As claim on the basis of this exclusion,  but then later told him theyd 
used the wrong  reason to decline the claim.  
Ive carefully considered  whether I think this exclusion  applies here  and I dont think it 
does. 
In Mr As case, the laptop had not been actively passed to the third party. Mr A has 
explained he planned to deliver the laptop later - once hed received funds into his account. I 
think the fact he contacted his bank and chose to write a receipt  supports this. If the thief 
thought he was being given the laptop  (i.e. if Mr A intended to pass  it over)  I think its very 
unlikely he wouldve chosen to run away with it.
The exclusion recommends precautions  to take when selling a device,  and Mr A has taken 
the second one listed. Hes specifically said he decided to wait for payment to clear  before 
he passed over the laptop, and that he wasnt  happy to hand  it over until this had occurred.
Mr As testimony has been  consistent.  Assurant havent questioned what hes said and Ive 
seen no reason to do so. With that in mind,  and taking everything into account, I think its 
likely Mr A planned to give the third party  a receipt  because he didnt want  to hand over the 
laptop until the money was in his account.  So I cant agree that the exclusion applies 
because I dont think the laptop had been actively passed over to the third party. 
In relation to whether Mr A took reasonable care of his laptop,  Ive seen no reason  to depart 
from my provisional decision.  My reasons remain the same, and are detailed  above. I think 
Mr A took reasonable care of his laptop by keeping it within  his sight and reach. 
Ref: DRN78137604my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Assurant General Insurance Limited should  reconsider Mr As claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813760