K820x#14complaint
Mr U has complained that the market value esure Insurance  Limited  has decided for his car 
is too low. Mr U made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr U was involved in an incident in September 2018. He made  a claim to his insurer, esure.
esure instructed an engineer to inspect  Mr Us car. He reported  that Mr Us car wasnt 
economical to repair.  So esure said it would settle  Mr Us claim as a total loss. It gave Mr U a 
market value for his car of £2,800.
Mr U told us hes refused to accept esures settlement sum. He asked us to look at his 
complaint. He said the deduction esure took for pre existing damage  to his car is inflated.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Us complaint should be upheld. He checked the main 
motor trade  guides  and found esure had reached  a market value reasonably. It provided 
photos and an estimate  from the engineer to repair the pre existing damage.  As esures 
deduction from the settlement for pre existing damage was less than half the estimate, the 
investigator thought  esure had acted reasonably. 
Mr U didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  a market value for a car. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its 
valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Us policy  with esure says the most it will pay is the market value of his car at the time of 
loss. esure  defines  the term market value as; 
The market value  is the amount you could reasonably  have expected to sell your car 
for on the open  market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar  age, condition  
and mileage at the time of accident  or loss. This value is based  on research from 
motor trade  guides  including (trade guide  names  inserted  here) . This may not be the 
price you paid when  you purchased the car
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find that a reliable  way to 
decide a fair market value is to look at the main motor trade  guides.  As esures policy  says,  
they provide average valuations based  on likely  selling prices  for the make,  model, 
specification, age, mileage and condition. 
We find the trade guides are more reliable than advertised prices as adverts  vary widely.  
They also tend to be a starting point  and so a seller leaves room to negotiate the price  
downward.
Ref: DRN70060982We checked the main  trade guides  and found  that esures starting valuation for Mr Us car 
stood at £3,510.  One of the guides was out of kilter with the others  as it was much  lower. So 
esure didnt  use this valuation. We think this is a reasonable approach to take  irrespective 
of whether the out of kilter valuation is higher or lower. 
The remaining  guides  provided valuations between £3,434 and £3,585. So I think  esure reached 
its starting valuation of £3,510 in a fair way as it within  the range of the motor  trade  guides.  
The engineer provided a breakdown of the estimated costs to repair pre existing damage to 
Mr Us car. And esure has provided several  photos of the pre existing damage. The 
engineers estimate  to repair  the pre existing  damage came  to £2,115.90. But esure  
deducted only £710 from the market  value. This was much lower  than the estimate. 
I understand that Mr U doesnt agree. He believes he can get the pre existing damage 
repaired for between  £200 and £250. 
But I think esure has acted reasonably  as its provided evidence  to support its decision. Mr U 
hasnt provided  anything to contradict the engineers  report. So I think  it was reasonable for 
esure to rely on it.
The condition of Mr Us car just before the incident  happened will have had an impact on its 
value in the open market.  So I think esure  was entitled to make  a deduction for this damage.  
As the amount esure deducted was less than half of the estimated repair  costs,  I think 
esures decision to reduce  the market value  by £710 for pre existing damage was fair.
Taking everything into account,  I think esure  dealt with Mr Us claim in a reasonable way and 
in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7006098