K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that Close Brothers  Limited refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
Background 
In early September 2018 Mr M acquired a second  hand car costing £6,000, funded  by a 
conditional sale agreement and a deposit  of £600. The car was some 12 years old and had 
done some  93,000 miles. Within a few days he encountered problems and returned the car 
the dealer. He says it kept the car for about  three  weeks. The invoices dated  24 September  
and 25 October 2018 show that the car had was tested for fumes  coming into the cabin and 
a crossover pipe was split. This was repaired and Mr M took the car back.
He says that on driving home he feared the bonnet  would come  off and he had further 
concerns. He took the car to another garage for an inspection and in its report dated 
10 October it identified numerous faults.  Mr M contacted Close  Brothers the following day 
and said the diagnostic test he had done  showed 44 faults and he also mentioned the issue  
with the bonnet.
Close Brothers spoke to the dealer  who said it had sought to ensure the car was fit for 
purpose and it supplied 12 invoices for work  carried out in the months  before the car was 
sold. It also suggested Mr M had fitted CB radio  causing damage and had driven it off road. 
An independent inspection was arranged and this took place on 27 November.
The report  states  that We inspected  the under bonnet area of the vehicle and found multiple 
fasteners and clips missing from multiple items.  Clearly evident is that the fan cover is loose 
in fitment with clips and fasteners having  been displaced and also multiple  fasteners  were 
noted of hose retention clamps consistent  with power steering related hoses and also oil 
cooler hoses. There was a lower  area of the engine bay consistent with the previous removal  
and the clips being displaced and not refitted. We also inspected the fuel pump area which  
shows evidence of dampness to the fuel pump  component  consistent  with that of possible 
minor leakage which would require further  investigation. 
It goes on to state: We performed a diagnostic test on the vehicle which  revealed 32 fault 
codes which  all require further investigation and specialist diagnostics. There  was no 
evidence to the vehicle's condition of any modifications or usage  which  may have induced  
any of the noted  faults.  The report concluded  that: Taking the mileage and age into 
consideration of the vehicle we feel there is enough  evidence to suggest by that of previous 
documented history  of ongoing faults with the vehicle since the point of purchase that these 
would have been present  at the point of sale.
Close Brothers said it would pay for repairs, but didnt specify what  repairs, and suggested 
that Mr M obtain two estimates for the work. Mr M didnt do so. Close  Brother rejected his 
complaint and so he brought  it to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the issue  with the bonnet 
catch had been raised  within 30 days of the car being acquired, but other  problems had 
been raised after that date. He assumed this had been fixed by the dealer when it was first 
repaired as it wasnt mentioned in the independent  report. 
He said he hadnt  seen any evidence to suggest the issues with the fuel pump, deterioration  
of the prop shaft rubber coupling, loose  fan cover and missing hose clips were raised within 
the first 30 days and so he thought that the business  ought to be given one opportunity  to 
Ref: DRN70439202have these issues repaired. He said Mr M should obtain two estimates  and Close Brothers 
pay for the repairs.
Mr M didnt  agree and said he only had the car for five days  before it was returned to the 
dealer for repair. It kept the car for three  and a half weeks and he didnt have any opportunity 
to reject the car sooner.  I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I noted that within few days  Mr M encountered  problems with fumes coming into the cabin 
and I was satisfied  that he returned  the car within five days. I noted the invoices supplied  by 
the dealer the first of which is dated  24 September which confirmed that the car was 
repaired within a month of supply. 
I gathered Mr M first noted the bonnet catch wasnt secure after getting the car back and he 
also identified other faults.  The dealer took the view that Mr M had altered the car by 
installing a CB radio and had used it off road. I found the latter point  a little odd, given the 
vehicle was designed to be used off road.  However,  it was clear from the notes provided by 
Close Brothers that the dealer had little interest  in assisting Mr M.
The report  Mr M obtained showed a long list of issues  and this was further supported by the 
independent report  commissioned  by Close Brothers. The latter referred to 32 fault codes 
along with a faulty fuel pump, deteriorating prop shaft coupling  and numerous  missing or 
loose clips and covers. The reports were carried out a few weeks after the car had been 
repaired. 
I explained that this service  looks at the car as one item,  rather than each component  in the 
car. So there  isnt one chance to repair each  different fault, simply  one chance  to repair the 
car. The car was found to be faulty within a few days and repairs were  effected, but I found it 
hard to see how these could be held to be successful, if the car was returned  with so many  
other faults.  
At the most  basic level I thought it odd that a car could be deemed  to have been repaired 
when it was returned with, as the independent  inspector noted, multiple fasteners and clips 
missing from multiple items. That seemed to me to have been  the result  of shoddy and 
incomplete work by the dealer.
The independent report refers to 32 fault codes which require further investigation and 
specialist diagnostics. I said these  seem to have been glossed over and the prop shaft fault 
and oil leak have taken  precedence.  It appeared that despite the repair there  were  significant 
problems with the vehicle and I didnt  consider  it reasonable that the business be allowed a 
second opportunity  to make repairs which I suspected may be costly.
The dealer  supplied 14 repair invoices 12 of which were undertaken in the months before the 
car was sold. This suggested to me that the car needed significant work before  it was sold, 
but it appeared likely  that this work wasnt sufficient to bring it up to an acceptable standard.
I gathered Mr M didnt tell Close Brothers  about the initial problem and I considered  that to 
have been reasonable.  I presumed  that the dealer made it aware  of the repairs. In any event 
I considered the car not to have been fit for purpose at the point of sale and the attempted  
repair to have been unsuccessful.  That led me to conclude that Mr M should be allowed to 
reject the car.
Ref: DRN70439203Mr M agreed, but suggested  the compensation for his distress and inconvenience should be 
more than £300. He said he had been homeless for over two months and had to borrow 
money for a new car. He also lost income due to not having a car and had to hire cars and 
he had also paid to tax and insure the car for a year. Close Brothers  said it had nothing 
further to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
There is no disagreement with my conclusion that Mr M should be allowed to reject the car. 
The only matter which remains open is the issue of compensation.  Firstly I dont consider the 
business can be held liable for Mr M being homeless after him having separated from his 
partner. 
As for the matter of tax and insurance  I see that the DVLA  website shows  the car as having  
been untaxed since 28 February  2019 and the MOT due on 1 April 2019 wasnt done. As 
such I dont consider that it is reasonable for Close Brothers to bear the cost of any tax or 
insurance Mr M may have  incurred.
Mr M will have all payments he made refunded from November 2018 so this will take into 
account his lack of use of the car so while he may have incurred costs in hiring cars and 
subsequently buying a replacement the end result  is that in broad terms he will be put back 
in the positon he would  have been had the car not been faulty
Close Brothers, once it had been  notified,  acted reasonably in arranging  for an inspection,  It 
took a different view to that taken by me given  the inspector concluded  the faults were not 
likely to have been present at the point  of sale. So while I recognise its position I believe it 
Ref: DRN70439204reached the wrong decision. However,  I dont think its actions merit a greater sum of 
compensation than I recommended  in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr M had a difficult time, but I believe the proposals  I put forward  in my 
provisional decision are fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brothers  Limited to:
end the agreement with no further  liability to Mr M and record  the agreement  as 
settled on his credit file
collect the car from Mr M at no cost to him
pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience
refund  the deposit of £600  Mr M paid and pay interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement
refund  all the monthly instalments he paid after he ceased using the car and pay 
interest at 8% simple  from the date pad until the date of settlement. It is my 
understanding that he stopped using it at the end of November 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043920