K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained that Metro Bank PLC failed to process a returned payment, so the money 
wasnt available in his account.
background
Mr B told us that he hired a car, and expected a deposit to be paid back to him as soon  as 
the car was returned. He said the car hire firm had done everything  it was supposed to, but 
Metro still hadnt  given him his money back.  He said the hire firm told him that this problem 
regularly happened  with Metro bank, and it was to do with how Metro processes payments. 
Mr B said hed expected  to get his money back on 26 November,  but instead hed had to 
wait until 16 December. He thought  that this was Metros fault, and it should take steps to put 
this right,  including  paying  him the extra costs hed incurred because  he didnt have that 
money, and compensation for what  it had done.
Metro didnt agree with that. It said that the problem was that the hire firm whod taken the 
car hire payment hadnt reversed  it properly. It said that was why it hadnt been able to pay 
Mr B back  his money until 16 December, because  the hire firm still had it on hold until then, 
and couldve  claimed the payment. Metro said it had checked its clearing file at the time, but 
there was just nothing  with the right code  from this firm, to allow  Metro to release the money.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that Metro kept telling Mr B to contact the 
hire firm, and didnt  offer any other help. She thought that was poor service. So she thought 
that Metro should pay Mr B £75 to make up for what had gone  wrong.  
Metro didnt agree with that. It sent us a copy of the regulations provided by the card scheme  
operator, whose  symbol is on Mr Bs card. Those set out that its not enough  for a merchant 
(in this case, the hire firm) to finalise a transaction with a lower amount than the amount on 
the pre-authorisation  (which had earlier put Mr Bs deposit on hold). The bank working for 
the merchant  has to make sure that the merchant processes a reversal  request,  in a 
particular format, to release all the remaining money. And this merchant (the hire firm) and 
its bank didnt do that. Metro never received that reversal,  so it said that the hire firm would 
still have been  able to claim the money, although  it didnt think  the firm intended to do that.
Metro said that it knew  it had kept telling Mr B that he needed  to talk to the hire firm, but it 
said that was because this was the only way to sort this out. It wasnt  able to help Mr B in 
any other way, or to give Mr B an overdraft to cover this amount. Metro said that what  had 
gone wrong really  wasnt its fault.  
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind. She said that the last call Mr B had with Metro was 
key. The manager  had mentioned the possibility of a conference call with the hire firm when 
he spoke to Mr B, but that didnt go ahead. And the manager didnt escalate this issue, as 
had been agreed on the call. 
Our adjudicator said that Metros manager  had set Mr B's expectations on this call, then 
hadnt followed up on that. And our adjudicator still thought that Metro couldve done  more to 
help Mr B get access to this money,  after Mr B had explained the impact on him. 
Our adjudicator still thought that Metro should pay Mr B £75.
Ref: DRN73444832my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Metro showed  our service the card scheme operators own rules for making sure that 
pending payments  are properly and fully reversed. So I thought  that did require more 
than what Mr B showed us that the hire firm had done. I didnt think  that Metro was 
responsible for the fact that this pending payment continued to reduce Mr Bs available  
balance until mid-December.
-Mr B spoke  to Metro about  this on 30 November. He was told he would get a call back 
from a manager,  and he was told he could expect this within  the next two hours. Mr B 
didnt get that call back, so he rang Metro  back just before 5.30pm. 
-Mr B asked  Metro if it could offer him a temporary overdraft, to cover him over the 
weekend. Metro  said that it couldnt  offer a temporary overdraft particularly for this issue, 
it could take forward  an overdraft  application  for Mr B if he wanted, but Mr B didnt 
pursue that. I thought that was a fair summary  of the call Ive listened to. 
-
-Because Metro  didnt  cause this problem, and it wasnt able to solve this problem for Mr 
B, I didnt think that Metro  had to offer Mr B any additional lending or temporary credit at 
this time. 
-Mr B talked  to Metro again  on 11 December. When he spoke to Metro, he was convinced  
that the reason he hadnt yet got his money  back was because  of a software  problem 
with Metro bank.  The Metro bank call handler that he spoke to then said that the problem 
was Metros process. He repeatedly agreed  with the points that Mr B was making.  And 
he agreed to escalate the problem further.  I thought  that it was therefore  particularly poor 
customer service  for this call to be followed by a letter which  simply restated Metros  
previous position.  I agreed with our adjudicator that Metro had set a very different 
expectation on this call, and I also agreed  with her that this was poor customer service. 
-For those reasons, although  I didnt think that this core problem  with money being left on 
hold was Metros  fault, and I didnt think that Metro couldve sorted that problem out by 
itself, I did think Metro  couldve provided Mr B with better customer  service.  So I agreed 
that Metro should  pay Mr B some compensation. And although  I understood our 
adjudicator proposed  a payment of £75 for slightly different reasons, I thought  that a 
payment of £75 would provide  a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr B accepted my decision  with no further comments. Metro simply said it had nothing  to 
add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr B £75.
Ref: DRN73444833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7344483