K820x#14complaint
G Ltd, represented by Mr M a director, complains about the way National Westminster  Bank 
Plc handled a payment and that it provided  inaccurate  advice.
background
Mr M made a faster payment to a relative  from G Ltd.s business  account. He says he was 
misadvised by NatWest that the payment had been  made when in fact it hadnt and was held 
by its fraud  team. He says this resulted  in his relative missing  making  various payments and 
incurring charges. He wants £250 compensation.
NatWest said in its final response that it couldnt trace any calls or notes about  Mr Ms 
dissatisfaction but it didnt dispute  his account of events. It confirmed the payment had been 
successfully made and offered £65 compensation for his lost time,  trouble and upset caused.  
But it said it wouldnt cover any external charges as it hadnt  made  an error.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
NatWest made some  mistakes  which  meant  Mr M, on behalf of G Ltd, had to contact 
it a number of times to sort out the payment. But this only took about 25 minutes and 
NatWest told him its decision on his complaint the same day. 
G Ltd is NatWests customer not Mr M or his relative. So we cant consider  any 
losses Mr M has paid out or his relatives  losses, only those of G Ltd.
Overall NatWests offer to pay G Ltd £65 compensation for any inconvenience  it was 
caused is fair. And she cant  reasonably  ask NatWest  to pay any compensation to Mr 
M or his relative or increase its offer to £250  as Mr M would like.
Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest couldve dealt  with Mr M on behalf of G Ltd better. It couldve given him more 
accurate information  about what was happening with the faster  payment  he had made and 
told him sooner  that it was held up by its fraud  team.
As NatWest says Mr M mayve expected  the faster payment to have reached his relative  
more quickly than it actually did. But the terms and conditions of the business account do 
say some payments  may take a little longer. And that is what  happened  in this case when 
the payment was flagged up by NatWests systems for anti fraud  security  checks.  
Its important that businesses like NatWest have processes and procedures  in place to try 
and identify payments  that arent  genuine. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers, like G Ltd in this case, may be inconvenienced by them,  but thats not to 
say that NatWest shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt  have followed them  as it 
did here.
Ref: DRN78571622Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
G Ltd was caused  some  inconvenience as a result of what happened and what  Mr M was 
initially told. But the problem was quickly sorted out.
It may well be that Mr M was also personally inconvenienced by what happened and he 
mayve reimbursed his relative  for some of the charges his relative incurred. But in this case 
Mr M was acting  as a director and on behalf  of G Ltd, not in his own personal capacity in 
relation to an account held in his own name.
Consequently as neither Mr M nor his relative  is a customer of NatWest, I cannot require it to 
make a payment  of any compensation  to either of them.
Mr M wants NatWest  to increase its offer of compensation to G Ltd to £250. But I think that 
would be too much. Taking everything  into account  I think NatWests offer to pay £65 
compensation to G Ltd for the inconvenience  it was caused is fair. And I dont think  I can 
reasonably ask it to pay any more  as Mr M would like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ms frustration  I dont  see any compelling reason to change  
the proposed  outcome in this case. I simply leave  it to Mr M, on behalf of G Ltd, to decide, if 
he hasnt already done so, if he now wants to accept NatWests offer of £65 compensation. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, as a director 
of and on behalf of G Ltd, to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7857162