K822xcomplaint
Mr Ps unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society  has dealt with his credit card 
account.
background 
Mr P says he wasnt told of what he had to pay into his credit card account.  He says he had 
problems trying to contact Nationwide. And as a result of whats happened, he missed 
payments and his credit  file has been affected. He wants more than the compensation 
Nationwide than Nationwide has offered and his credit file amended.
Nationwide said in its final response that it hasnt  made any mistake when sending  Mr Ps 
credit card statements.  It uses Royal Mail to deliver them  to his address and it isnt 
Nationwides fault if he hasnt received them. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account 
say hes responsible for making payments whether or not he receives the statements. Its 
also been trying to contact Mr P for some  months  to talk about the arrears. It wasnt  
successful and it couldnt speak to him when he called in due to security  restrictions on his 
account. Mr P also disconnected  calls while being  transferred to other departments.  
Nationwide didnt cause  Mr P to miss multiple payments and it will not amend his credit file. 
But its level of service  couldve been better  at times  and its offered £100  compensation for 
this.
Nationwide has recently increased its offer of compensation to £225.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Nationwide has shown it was sending Mr P statements  and its not its fault if he didnt 
receive them. It hasnt  made  an error.
Mr P appears to have  cancelled his direct debits in June and not before. After  that 
time payments  to Nationwide and other businesses were returned  and he made 
some manual payments. Before then payments  were made  until his overdraft got to 
its limit. 
Although Mr P didnt  have credit card statements hed enough information to hand to 
be able to see what needed paying. He had previous credit  card statements and 
there were returned debit debits and payments on his current  account.
Nationwide couldve provided  a better  service  when Mr P contacted  it and he 
shouldnt have  needed to be passed to its fraud  team. But by the time he first spoke 
to the collections  team in October there were already arrears and he later paid 
minimum payments into the account.  The arrears  were  later cleared and his credit  file 
would at that point have shown  the account  as being up to date. There  isnt enough 
to say Nationwide should remove the negative markers on Mr Ps credit file which 
started in August  2018. 
Nationwide has increased its offer of compensation for its poor service to £225. Its 
done enough to put things right.
Ref: DRN70951742Mr P doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he doesnt think  
the compensation offered  is enough.  He says his credit history has been ruined and he 
wants it fixed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Nationwide has done anything  wrong.  Im 
satisfied on balance that it sent Mr P statements for his credit card to his address in the post. 
And it wasnt Nationwides fault if they didnt reach him
Ive also seen nothing  to suggest that Nationwide was responsible for Mr P not making  
payments into his account or causing  arrears to increase  on it. 
Whatever Mr P received in the post and whatever happened, it remained Mr Ps 
responsibility to ensure  he made  payments to his credit card account.  And I agree that the 
information he did have  available  from previous card statements and his current account  
which wouldve shown returned payments  - was enough for him to know  what needed  
paying. As such I dont  think  I can reasonably hold Nationwide responsible  for Mr P missing  
any payments into his credit card account  or for the arrears on it. 
Nationwide has an obligation  to ensure it accurately  records  the conduct of Mr Ps credit  
card account  with the credit reference  agencies.  On balance I think  its done so here and I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably ask it to amend Mr Ps credit  file as hed like.
I also note Nationwide  has recently increased  its offer of compensation for its poor service to 
£225.
Taking everything into account  I agree  with the investigator that Nationwide  has acted 
reasonably putting  things  right and I dont think I can fairly ask it to do anything  more as Mr P 
would like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7095174