K820x#14complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that First Central  Insurance Management Limited (First Central) added  
her details to the database of a fraud prevention agency.  
background
Mrs K has a son whose motor insurance  policy was cancelled. Because of this, Mrs K 
decided to take out a policy in her own name with her son as a named driver. She arranged  
for a third party  someone her son knew  to take out the insurance  on her behalf.  
The third party used  a comparison  website to purchase insurance for Mrs K with First 
Central, adding  her son as a named  driver.  When applying for the policy,  the third party  said 
Mrs K had 12 years no claims discount  (NCD).  
Soon after, First Central found that Mrs Ks son had two insurance  claims, which  hadnt  been 
disclosed when applying for the policy. Because of this, they requested  some  further  
information  including  proof  of Mrs Ks NCD.  Mrs K says that the third party  sent this 
information over to First Central.  
A few weeks  later, Mrs K called First Central  to ask whether  all the documents  had been 
received. She was told they were  waiting to validate  her NCD with her previous insurer, as 
theyd found that multiple quotes had been applied for on the comparison website. 
Later that same day, Mrs K called  back to say she no longer  had need  for the insurance and 
wanted to cancel it, as shed  now sold the car. First Central said they werent able to cancel 
the insurance until after the NCD validation  process. 
The next day, Mrs K called again and requested that the policy  be cancelled. She also told 
First Central that someone  else had set up the insurance for her. First Central explained  
again that they wouldnt cancel the policy until after the validation process had ended.   
First Central say that, a few days later, they were made aware that the NCD document  
theyd been provided with was false. They then went on to cancel Mrs Ks insurance,  and 
refunded any premiums shed paid.  They  also placed a marker on a fraud database.  
First Central say they did this on the basis that Mrs K provided them  with incorrect 
information when  taking out the policy. Mrs K isnt happy with this as she says she didnt 
submit any information herself  it was all done by the third party. She says she gave  the 
third party the correct information,  and feels she was a victim of his actions. She doesnt 
think her details should be reported to the fraud prevention agency  so shed like the 
information removed.  Because  of this, she brought her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt Mrs K 
was responsible for the information provided  to First Central by the third party  and that it was 
reasonable for First Central to record Mrs Ks details on the database. 
Mrs K disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
Ref: DRN77969132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mrs K has been clear with us that her complaint  is about her details being  added to a fraud  
database. She also made it clear during telephone  calls with First Central that she wanted  
the policy cancelled.  In fact, she specifically requested  this. So I havent  considered  the 
policy cancellation in itself any further.
What I have considered  is whether First Central  acted fairly and reasonably when they 
added Mrs Ks details to a fraud database.  
Im not able to say whether the actions of Mrs K or the third party constitute fraud  its not 
my role to do so. I am only able to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for First 
Central to report Mrs Ks details in the way they have. Taking everything into account, I 
believe it was. 
I say this because  the Statement of Fact for Mrs Ks policy  states that First Central may at 
any time: Share information about you withfraud prevention agencies  and databases.  And 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks policy state  that First Central wont  share her personal 
information without a good reason.
Mrs K has provided screenshots from a mobile phone, showing a message conversation 
between her son and the third party.  In this conversation, her son indicates that he doesnt  
have any claims. However  First Central  has explained they identified two claims for Mrs Ks 
son. So it appears that he knowingly  provided incorrect  information here. 
Ive seen evidence  to show that a number of quotes were  obtained for Mrs K for the First 
Central policy  and that different NCD was given in some of these. In some quotes, the 
NCD is zero and in others its 5 or 12 years. When the policy was eventually taken out, the 
third party registered  that Mrs K had 12 years NCD. Mrs K has acknowledged that this is 
incorrect. She says she told the third party that she didnt have any NCD. 
Two of the quotes the third party applied for were  sent to Mrs Ks son's email address. 
These two quotes  listed Mrs Ks NCD as 12 years. Given he was helping  his mother  
purchase the policy, I think its likely her son was aware this was wrong. So I think its likely 
he knew false information was being  provided  in the application. 
Many of the quotes  were sent to the email  address  that Mrs K says the third party set up for 
her. In one call with First Central,  Mrs K confirmed this email address was hers.  Shes 
subsequently explained that it wasnt, but that she was aware  the third party had set it up. 
Knowing this email account had been  set up and used to apply for the insurance, Mrs K was 
taking a risk that she wouldnt  receive her policy documentation, or see the correspondence 
between the third party and her insurer.  
When Mrs K initially spoke  to First Central,  they told her they were in the process of 
validating her NCD. Given Mrs K has told us she didnt have any NCD and that this is what 
she told the third party  when he applied for the insurance, I think she was made aware  at 
this point that incorrect information had been submitted on her behalf. However she did not 
challenge or dispute this with First Central  at this time.  
Ref: DRN77969133Mrs K has also mentioned she was unsure about  whether she had accumulated any NCD as 
shed previously been a named driver. But shes also told us that she told the third party she 
didnt have any NCD, so I dont think this is persuasive. And once the query had been raised 
by First Central, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs K wouldve questioned this  either with 
them or her previous insurer.  
Mrs K feels  she shouldnt  be held responsible  for the third partys actions. But she doesnt 
dispute that she asked the third party to take out the insurance on her behalf. The policy was 
taken out in her name  to her knowledge and on her request. Because of this, I think  Mrs K 
was responsible for ensuring that the third party  acting  on her behalf  provided accurate 
information. This also applies to the information  her son provided on her behalf.  Mrs K is 
responsible for any information provided by others  on her behalf to the insurance company, 
as the policy  is for her and in her name.
First Central have said that, on receipt  of Mrs Ks proof of NCD, they contacted  the insurer 
listed on this letter. However,  the other insurer told them that theyd never provided Mrs K 
with insurance. Because of this, they believe the proof of NCD was false.  
Given all of the above, I think incorrect and false information was submitted to First Central 
on Mrs Ks behalf. So taking everything into account, I think First Central acted fairly and 
reasonably when they reported Mrs Ks details  to a fraud prevention  agency.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796913