K821x#15complaint
Mrs Cs unhappy with Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline her claim.  
background
Mrs C was a member  of her employers group income protection policy  and she brings her 
complaint to us as a beneficiary under that policy. 
Mrs C became unwell  after her holiday in September 2016.  Upon returning to the UK she felt 
too unwell  to return to work. She was taken to hospital and diagnosed with deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT). Mrs C underwent  successful treatment  in October 2016, but afterwards,  
she was still not well enough to return to work. 
Mrs C said she also suffered  with chronic  pain in her chest and abdomen,  breathlessness 
and fatigue since  returning home. She explained whilst away she had to be rescued from the 
mountain she was climbing with what she initially  believed was altitude sickness. Mrs C said 
her symptoms persisted  when she returned  home and that this then became the main 
reason she was unable to go back to work.  
Mrs C would like Aviva to accept  her claim and pay her the money that she believes it owes 
her. 
Aviva said it declined Mrs Cs claim because she had not met its policy  terms. In particular, it 
said that there was little evidence to support Mrs Cs version of events and so it could not be 
satisfied she had met the deferred period.
Our investigator was persuaded that Mrs C was incapacitated during the 52 week deferral 
period and said that Aviva should pay her benefit from 21 September  2017  until the day 
she stopped working  for her employer altogether  which was 13 January 2018  as she 
took voluntary  redundancy and had not returned  to work during that time.
Aviva partially accepted  our investigators findings.  It agreed  there  was sufficient medical  
evidence to support  Mrs C had satisfied the deferral period and so it offered to pay full 
benefit, plus 8% simple interest, in line with our investigators suggestion. But it said itd only 
do this until November 2018. Aviva highlighted an independent medical report  (IME) issued 
that month  which said Mrs C was ready to return to work. 
Mrs C didnt accept this. She said the only reason  she opted to take voluntary redundancy 
was because Aviva had left her with money problems following its refusal  of her claim. Mrs C 
also explained that shed attended  a meeting with her employer in January 2018, but after an 
hour, she felt so unwell  that she could not continue and had to lay down and rest before she 
could return home. Mrs C said this was further  proof  that she wasnt well enough to return  to 
work. And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN79663922As the issue  with the deferral period has now been settled, the main  argument for me to 
decide here is whether Aviva should  pay total benefit until the Mrs Cs last day of 
employment. Avivas position is that the IME report of 17 November 2017 suggested that 
Mrs C is ready to return to work  on a part time basis. And this is why its prepared  to pay 
total benefit up until then. 
The IME suggested that Mrs C had fulfilled the 52 week deferred period  as set out under 
Avivas policy.  And so its unclear why Aviva  didnt accept Mrs Cs claim back  then.  It only 
did this when prompted by our investigator  which I didnt think  was fair. 
Its also worth highlighting that many of the symptoms that prevented Mrs C from returning  to 
work back in September 2016 were  still present during the time of the IME and were  
acknowledged by the doctor that completed the assessment. I think  Aviva  has not 
necessarily given this due consideration, rather,  it appears to have focussed mainly  on the 
DVT Mrs C was treated for. I accept this had been  resolved fairly early on, as does Mrs C, 
but her other issues with left-flank pain,  abdominal  and chest  pain, extreme fatigue and 
breathlessness appear not to have  been  given appropriate consideration by Aviva.
The IME Aviva relied on throughout its investigation into Mrs Cs claim refers to these 
problems throughout,  explaining theyre  still unresolved and being investigated; 
No convincing explanation  has been  found for the persisting abdominal  and chest pain and 
the current focus of investigation seems to be on possible bowel pathology, although  with 
little to support  such a diagnosis. Further investigations of the heart  and small bowel are in 
train, but dates  have not been provided  for either test. There seems to be significant  delay in 
receiving investigations,  and subsequent results, within the cardiological  service
And;
Referral to a respiratory physician  seems to be under consideration. I think  this would be 
helpful in determining whether there is any enduring reduction  in gas transfer from the lungs 
to the pulmonary  circulation
Further, the report also identified that these problems were  present from the start of Mrs Cs 
absence from work  back in September 2016 and that since then, she had been 
incapacitated and unable to return to work.  The report does suggest there had been some 
improvement, but it doesnt specifically identify where. And so given these  issues  were still 
unresolved I think Avivas suggestion that it should only pay total benefit until the date that 
the IME was issued is premature.  
The advice given  in relation to Mrs Cs return to work was;
On balance  of probabilities, Mrs C would struggle to cope  with full-time work. In my opinion,  
there is scope however  for exploration of part-time  work with reasonable adjustments  
Provided suitable environmental  adjustments can be offered, Mrs C could return  to modified 
work duties  at any mutually  convenient  time
The report  also goes on to explain that Mrs C would need additional support to return to 
work in the form of a graded  return, which would have allowed her to slowly build up her 
exposure to work and manage her symptoms more effectively. But within the two months 
that followed, its unclear whether this was discussed with Mrs C. Ive not seen any evidence 
that persuades  me that her employer, or Aviva, took steps to discuss  what  reasonable 
Ref: DRN79663923adjustments could  be offered, or whether they were even available  from November   when 
the report was issued. 
I note that just before Mrs C left her employer,  she attempted to attend a meeting in January 
2018, but its unclear whether this was to discuss her return to work. 
Aviva asked of the doctor whether there  were  any other measures that could facilitate a 
return to work and it was suggested that allowing time for further investigations would be 
beneficial, including  those  completed by a respiratory physician and for the outstanding 
planned investigations of capsule endoscopy and cardiac CT scan  to be concluded. It also 
suggested that referral  to a pain management  clinic  would be appropriate given Mrs Cs 
difficulties with her sitting tolerances. But Ive not seen any evidence of this happening either 
 perhaps because Mrs C decided to leave employment altogether  shortly after.
I think Aviva  should pay her total benefit from September  2017   upon satisfying the 
deferred period   until Mrs Cs last day of employment on 13 January 2018.  I say that 
because the IME didnt say Mrs C was ready to return to work  immediately.  It said there was 
scope to explore  part time work  provided  there were adjustments in place. Ive not seen that 
any steps were taken to discuss  or explore this further with Mrs C or her employer. And so I 
think it unfair to terminate the benefit  at the date of the report.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint and Aviva  Life and Pensions 
Limited must;
Pay Mrs Cs claim from the date she satisfied  the deferral period in September 2017 
 the date she left her employer in January 2018 plus 8% simple interest until the 
date of settlement  and;
Pay Mrs C £200 compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7966392