K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the way Bank of Scotland plc have administered  their 
mortgage. Specifically,  they complain about the following:
Bank of Scotland have been  applying interest to their mortgage  incorrectly. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs C believe  their monthly payments and the outstanding  balance 
were higher than they should  have  been;
Bank of Scotland have refused to meet with Mr and Mrs C and their solicitors to 
discuss the maturity  of the interest-only mortgage  and their proposed way forward;
The delay in Bank of Scotland considering Mr and Mrs Cs proposal to repay  the 
outstanding mortgage  balance, when  they put this to the bank in 2017. Overall,  
theyre unhappy with the communication theyve received from the bank on the 
matter.
Since this complaint was brought to us, Bank  of Scotland  have considered Mr and Mrs Cs 
proposal to repay the mortgage  balance.  Mr and Mrs C have now asked our service  to look 
into this outcome, which were doing under a separate complaint reference. So I wont  be 
considering that in this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs C have an interest-only mortgage with Bank of Scotland, the term of which 
expired in 2018. Due to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances,  the mortgage  has fallen in and out of 
arrears over the term.
In February 2018,  Bank of Scotland wrote  to Mr and Mrs C to tell them they were refunding 
the arrears management  fees that had been  charged on the mortgage account. This 
reduced the arrears  by £760.82.
In September  2018, Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr and Mrs C again  to tell them theyd 
changed the way they calculate their monthly mortgage payments. In this letter, it said 
Mr and Mrs Cs new monthly mortgage  payment would  be £30,143.93.  It also explained the 
arrears on the account were £85,540.08.
Mr and Mrs C have told us their house  has been  on the market for eight years, and theyve 
tried to sell it in order to repay  the mortgage. The most recent  proposal theyve put to Bank 
of Scotland involved converting the property  into flats and selling them off individually   as 
this may be more likely  to achieve sales.
Mr and Mrs C have been working with a solicitor  during this process,  and have requested 
meetings between the involved  parties with the bank, in order to find an agreeable way 
forward. Bank of Scotland did not agree to meet  with the solicitors  to discuss  this.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs C complained to the bank. They wanted more  time to sell the property 
before the bank  took legal  action.  They  also complained about the increase in the monthly 
mortgage payments,  and the impact this had on the arrears and the balance. They wanted a 
meeting with the bank and their solicitors  to agree a way forward.
Bank of Scotland issued a final response  letter in February 2019. They said theyd allowed 
sufficient time for Mr and Mrs C to sell their property, and as no payments had been made or 
arrangements agreed since  the term ended, the bank had the right to consider taking legal 
Ref: DRN74433912action. They said they would not be able to extend  the mortgage term unless the arrears 
were cleared.
The letter also explained  how the monthly  payments and interest were calculated.  They  said 
that interest  is charged on the amount outstanding, which includes the arrears  balance. The 
letter also said that if Mr and Mrs C wanted  the bank to meet  with their solicitors, the solicitor 
could request this  but it was not something the bank could arrange  themselves.
Following a telephone call between Bank of Scotland  and Mr C, the bank issued  another  
final response letter in March 2019.  This explained  theyd send Mr and Mrs C a breakdown  
of the calculation for the monthly payments and interest on the mortgage account,  but they 
confirmed they had not overcharged, and the outstanding balance was correct. The letter  
also said that the bank has guidelines  to ensure fair and consistent treatment of all 
customers, with policies and procedures they must adhere to. They  said theyre unable to 
arrange a proposal or hold a meeting with their legal representative.
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to our service. Since the complaint  came to us 
Bank of Scotland looked at things again.  They acknowledged theyd made a mistake when 
calculating the monthly  payment in September 2018. They also explained that 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account  would ordinarily  have been remediated  in line with 
guidance issued  by the regulator - The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), but as the term 
had ended this hadnt taken place.  So they provided our service with information  about how 
theyd restructure the account if this guidance  had been applied and offered to re-work 
Mr and Mrs Cs account in light of this. 
Our investigator looked into things and agreed the bank had made  a mistake when the 
monthly payment  was calculated, but thought the banks  offer to re-work the account was 
fair. He explained theres no requirement for the bank  to arrange or attend  a meeting 
between the solicitors to discuss  the mortgage  account, and so he didnt think  theyd acted 
unreasonably. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2020.  This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr and Mrs C have helpfully provided  a lot of information about their concerns over how 
Bank of Scotland have handled things. I understand they feel strongly about this complaint, 
and I want to assure them Ive considered everything theyve said when reaching my 
decision. However, I wont be referring  to everything  theyve said in detail  rather  Ill 
address what I consider  to be the crux of the matter here. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs concerns  with the banks actions are ongoing, this 
decision will consider how the bank handled things up until they sent their final response 
letter in March 2019. If Mr and Mrs C decide they want us to look into whats happened  since 
then, our service can consider that under a separate complaint.
Ref: DRN74433913The administration of the mortgage  account
Bank of Scotland have explained they made an error when re-calculating  Mr and Mrs Cs 
contractual monthly mortgage payment in 2018. They wrote to Mr and Mrs C to tell them 
theyd need to increase their payments to £30,143.93 each month.  Considering their 
previous monthly  payment had been around £5,000,  I understand why this would  cause 
Mr and Mrs C distress and confusion.  Although I think its relevant to note that Mr and Mrs C 
had not been able to make their full contractual monthly payments consistently  for some 
time.
Bank of Scotland have also given our service information to show how the account should 
have looked had they done things correctly, and followed the guidance issued by the FCA. 
This calculation shows  that the mortgage would have been in arrears  by just over £60,000  at 
the end of the mortgage term  which whilst this is still a significant amount, is lower than 
what Mr and Mrs C were told at the time.
The bank have  recognised this error and agreed  to re-work the mortgage account 
accordingly. Having  looked at the proposed calculations  and what the bank have  offered  to 
do, Im satisfied this would put the account  back in the position it would have been in had no 
error occurred. So Bank  of Scotland should  ensure this re-structure  of the mortgage  account 
is done, if they havent done so already. This wont change the overall balance owed  as 
the full outstanding balance is still due now the term has ended.
Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns  about how the interest has been applied to their 
account, and believe the balance is higher than it should be. Whilst its not the role of our 
service to provide  full audits of accounts,  I have considered the banks calculations, along 
with the mortgage statements, transaction history  and what  both parties have said.  Having  
done so Ive not seen  anything to suggest  the bank have applied  the interest to the account 
incorrectly. If Mr and Mrs C have more specific concerns about  the interest, Im happy to 
consider these  but overall based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded the bank 
have applied  this incorrectly.
Whilst the mortgage was due to end soon, and Mr and Mrs C hadnt  been able to make  their 
full monthly payments for some time,  I do still think it would have been distressing for them 
to receive a letter telling them their monthly  payment had increased  by such  a significant 
amount. Both Mr and Mrs C were  already  concerned about how they were  going to repay the 
full balance of the mortgage at the end of the term, and I think  this would only have added  to 
their concern  during an already difficult time.  It also took some time for Mr and Mrs C to 
receive clarity from the bank about what had happened. As a result, Im persuaded 
Bank of Scotland should pay them £200 to compensate for this unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience.
When Bank of Scotland re-work Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account  to the position it should 
have been in, they also need to ensure the correct account position is reported to the credit  
reference agencies.
Communication about the end of the mortgage  term
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way Bank  of Scotland  have handled the end of their 
mortgage term. Theyre not happy with the way the bank have communicated with them,  and 
feel the bank have not considered the proposals  theyve put to them. They  also complain 
about the fact the bank refused to meet with Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors  to discuss  the matter.  
Ref: DRN74433914Bank of Scotland have now considered Mr and Mrs Cs proposal  the outcome of which 
Mr C has told us he is still discussing with the bank. So Ive looked  at how the bank 
communicated with Mr and Mrs C up until they issued  their final response  letter  in March 
2019.
Bank of Scotland have provided  us with their contact notes  for the mortgage  account, and 
Mr and Mrs C have also sent us lots of information  which shows  how theyve attempted  to 
communicate. Ive considered  everything  provided  by both parties in order to get a picture of 
whats happened.
I can see that in August  2017, Mr C had a conversation with the bank about the end of the 
mortgage term and Mr and Mrs Cs plan to repay  the balance. In this conversation Mr C 
confirmed the plan was to sell the property and it was on the market. He expected it to sell 
as hed had interest.
In November 2017 another conversation took place,  and Mr C explained he was looking into 
obtaining planning permission to convert  the house  into apartments to help the sale of the 
property. He updated the bank in February  2018 to say that hed got the planning permission 
and was seeking a developer to buy the property. The bank  agreed  to give them  some time 
to sell the property.
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor wrote  to the bank  explaining  they were trying  to sell the 
property to developers.  Mr and Mrs C gave the bank authority  to speak directly to the 
solicitors to discuss the sale. 
In June 2018 Mr C asked the bank  if they could arrange a face to face meeting to discuss 
next steps for the mortgage.  The bank said this wouldnt be possible, and that if hes unable 
to find a buyer for the property  they would likely start legal action to take possession of the 
property. Whilst I appreciate Mr C wanted  to discuss the issue with the bank  face to face,  Im 
not persuaded this would have resulted in a different  outcome, or that hes lost out because  
this didnt happen. 
The bank have  engaged with him about  the issue over the phone,  and they held off starting 
legal action despite the significant arrears on the account, to allow Mr and Mrs C time to sell 
the property. Im not entirely clear  what Mr C hoped to gain from having these conversations 
face to face rather  than over the phone, but Im not satisfied hes suffered unfair  treatment as 
a result of the banks  refusal to do this. Mr C hasnt made us aware of any reason why he 
found telephone communication difficult for him, or that he had a need  to discuss  things  in 
person. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to turn down  his request.
In January 2019 Mr C called the bank to tell them the property was under offer from a 
corporate buyer. In February he explained  that there  were some delays with the buyer and 
so he was expecting  the sale to take a bit longer to complete. And then in March  he told the 
bank he wanted  his solicitors to speak to them. The bank said that was fine and he could  call 
them when hes with the solicitors to give the necessary authority to discuss the account. In 
the meantime,  hed raised a complaint with the bank.
Overall looking at what happened up until March 2019, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland 
were treating  Mr and Mrs C unfairly.  Whilst  there  was mention of potential legal action in 
some of the calls, this was in relation to the significant arrears  that had built up on the 
account, as opposed to the fact the mortgage had reached the end of its term.
Ref: DRN74433915In any case, during this time the bank didnt pursue legal action to recover  the balance,  and 
agreed time for Mr and Mrs C to sell the house themselves. Mr C was pro-active in keeping 
the bank updated, and as a result the bank agreed to wait for the sale of the property before 
doing anything  further. I appreciate the situation changed somewhat after this, when Mr and 
Mrs C changed their proposal to repay the balance.  But as Ive explained, Im not 
considering that time period in this decision.  Im satisfied Bank of Scotland treated Mr and 
Mrs C fairly  in the way they communicated within the time period Ive looked  at.
responses to my provisional  decision
Bank of Scotland responded to say they had no further comments to add.
Mr C responded to say that he wanted to highlight the stress  and costs  he and Mrs C have 
suffered as a result  of this experience, particularly in light of Mrs Cs health  condition. He 
also re-iterated the frustration hed experienced by having to deal with so many different 
offices at Bank of Scotland.
Mr C has also told us hes still receiving letters from the bank asking for monthly payments of 
around £30,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Cs most recent comments.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have been going through a lot in recent  years, and the added 
stress of having to deal with the end of their mortgage term has made  things particularly 
difficult. But Ive explained that I dont think Bank  of Scotland have treated Mr and Mrs C 
unfairly in the way theyve communicated about the end of the mortgage  term. And although 
Mr C is frustrated hes had to deal with different departments within Bank  of Scotland,  within 
the timeframe considered  in this decision,  Ive seen he and the bank have had regular, 
meaningful conversations  about the situation.  So Im not persuaded the fact that Mr C spoke 
to different  people in different departments is something Bank of Scotland should 
compensate Mr and Mrs C for.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I do think Bank of Scotland  sending  Mr and Mrs C 
a letter  saying their monthly payment was increasing  by such  a significant amount would 
have caused distress and inconvenience. Its disappointing if Bank of Scotland  still havent  
rectified this on their system and are still asking  Mr and Mrs C for the incorrect  amount each 
month. I recognise that this would be very frustrating for them.  But Im still satisfied  based  on 
what Ive heard from both sides  that £200  is a fair award to recognise this.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Bank of Scotland plc to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  account as if theyd correctly applied  the FCAs 
remediation guidance in 2018, if they havent already done this;
Ensure the correct account  position  is reported to the credit reference agencies;
Pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN74433916Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7443391