K821x#15complaint
Miss K says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about an open  ended  credit facility and twenty-six  high-cost short  term 
credit loans that Sunny provided  to Miss K from August 2014 onwards. Miss Ks last loan 
was provided in August 2018.  Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ks complaint and thought she 
shouldnt have been provided with any further  credit from the twelfth drawdown on the open-
ended credit facility. Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators  assessment  in full. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss K, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss K was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided the twelfth drawdown on the open ended  credit 
facility in September 2014. 
Ref: DRN76938222I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Miss Ks use 
of her open-ended facility suggested  that there  was no reasonable prospect of her clearing 
the balance within a reasonable period of time. And it also ought to have been  apparent  that    
Miss K was relying on the facility too. 
Sunny then transitioned Miss K from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt 
be used for an extended period of time to a series of instalment loans which  had the same 
effect. Miss K then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too long after 
repaying previous  ones.  And some  of them were even provided  when  Miss K already  had an 
outstanding balance on an existing loan. Sunny continued lending  to Miss K even when this 
pattern was repeated and in circumstances  where it ought reasonably to have realised that 
any further loans  were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss K paid on all products  from 8 July 2014  onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ks credit  file for loans 2 to 5. The 
number of loans  provided means that any information recorded about loans to 6 to 26 
on Miss Ks credit file is likely  to be adverse.  So all reference to these loans  should  
be removed from Miss Ks credit  file.
if any outstanding  balances remain on loans 23 to 26 after all the interest and 
charges applied from the outset have been  removed, Sunny can deduct these from 
the compensation it now needs  to pay Miss K should it wish to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ks complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss K compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7693822