K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs E took out PPI when  they applied for a mortgage  in one of the banks 
branches. The policy included life and critical illness cover in both of their names. It also 
gave Mr E protection for the mortgage  repayments  if he couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree saying, in summary,  
that theyve only claimed  once  under  the policy in 20 years, showing that it isnt something 
they needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  Ive based  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  
so, on what I think  is most  likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I havent seen  evidence to show Halifax didnt make  it clear  the PPI was optional. I think, in 
all likelihood, Halifax made  it reasonably clear that the PPI was a separate  product and that 
Mr and Mrs E didnt  need to take it for their mortgage application to be successful. 
Mr E was eligible for the policy  given his circumstances at the time and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to make sure it was suitable for 
them. The policy was in Mr Es name  only. Hes told us he wouldve received full pay from 
his employer if he couldnt work  due to sickness or an accident, but he couldnt remember  
how many  weeks or months  this would last for. The PPI would have paid out in addition to 
his work  benefits  and for up to 24 months. It also covered him if hed become unemployed, 
again for up to 24 months. The mortgage  was a significant long term financial commitment  
and Mr and Mrs Es home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So, overall, 
I dont think Mr Es existing arrangements made  the PPI unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs E say theyve only made  one claim under the policy which shows they didnt 
require it. But it doesnt follow  that if a claim isnt made  or in this case,  only one claim was 
made  that this means the policy was unsuitable.  The PPI couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs E if the insured risks became a reality   as indeed  they did on one occasion.
Ref: DRN72207092Mr E wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he and Mrs E needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether  the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs E 
before they agreed to purchase  it. I think they probably werent told that the PPI element of 
the policy would cost £16.89 each month  until after theyd applied for it. For this reason 
I have considered whether clearer information  about  the cost would have affected their 
decision to purchase  the policy. Theyd  chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would 
have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  
So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better  information  about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs 
recommendations were  unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs E would have  made a 
different decision about  taking  out the policy  if better  information had been provided  to them 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs E paid for it. But Halifax has offered to give them  back some of the cost of the 
PPI as a gesture of goodwill. I understand it has already paid this to them  so I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7220709