K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage with Halifax in 1998. They took out PPI for Mr B to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments  in the event that he couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators  
view. Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint is that they werent told PPI was optional and they 
dont recall any of the benefits being  explained. They feel that they had sufficient  other 
means they couldve relied on to pay their mortgage and didn't need PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
As Mr and Mrs B had a joint mortgage  Ive looked at both their circumstances when the 
insurance was taken out. 
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs B mightnt  be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when  they arranged their mortgage. This was a long time ago and I cant safely  
rely only on what they say now. I have  to decide what  I think is most likely taking into 
account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
have it for Mr B. I can see that theres  a section on their mortgage  application  headed 
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment Insurance. It says here: We recommend that you 
consider our Mortgage  Repayments Insurance Scheme. Mr B signed this part of the form to 
have PPI  next to where it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance. And Mr and Mrs B have both signed  the mortgage  application  at 
the end confirming that the information  theyve  given in their application is correct. 
Mr B also completed a separate PPI application  which shows his name as the person to be 
insured and he signed the completed  form to get the policy.  
I think the wording and layout of the paperwork makes it clear  that Mr and Mrs B were made 
aware that it was up to them  to choose if they wanted to take out the policy with their 
mortgage  and that they opted to do this for Mr B at the time.
Halifax recommended  the policy. So Ive checked  to see whether  it was right for 
Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN72257362Mr B was eligible for the PPI policy. Ive taken into account that Mr B told us he was entitled  
to 3 months full sick pay followed  by 3 months' half pay. But if Mr B made  a successful 
accident or sickness claim the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any work benefits and in full 
for significantly longer  - up to 12 months per claim. This couldve been useful if he had extra 
costs as a result of being too ill or disabled to work.    
And PPI wouldve covered him if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. The 
policy provided long term protection as Mr B couldve made repeated claims on it. 
Although Mr B also mentioned that he had good redundancy benefits this wouldnt have  
helped him if hed had an accident or was disabled and unable to go back to work. 
Looking at the information Ive got, it appears that Mr B was the main earner. So I can see 
how it made sense to take out the cover for him. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also told me that they came  into a five figure amount of money  around  
the time they decided to take out this mortgage.  But rather  than spend  this money on the 
move it seems they chose  to borrow the money  they needed to pay for their new home. This 
suggests to me that it was important to them to keep their lump  sum intact. Having  PPI 
meant Mr and Mrs B could protect  this lump sum and keep it to spend on other things or to 
provide them  with financial security. 
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B taking into account what  theyve told us 
about their situation  at the time.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  its likely that being  told more information  about this wouldve 
affected their decision to take it out. 
The monthly premium for the PPI was set out on the application  form Mr B filled in to get the 
cover. So they wouldve been aware of this extra cost when  he signed up for the policy. And 
it seems Mr and Mrs B were happy to pay for the cover they wanted at the time and it 
doesnt seem to have  caused them any money problems. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr B even if theyd been 
better informed as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7225736