K820x#14complaint
Mr D says The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mr D says he thought he had to take out the PPI, and that RBS didnt give him a proper 
choice. But I think RBS made  Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it. I say this because Mr D did tick the box on the credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover.
 RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. Mr D had to decide that for himself.
 Its possible the information RBS gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr D would have been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Mr D says he didnt claim on the policy when he was made redundant, and he considers this 
shows he didnt know how the cover worked.  Ive noted everything  Mr D has said. I accept 
he may not have realised  he could claim on the policy, but its also possible hed forgotten he 
had the cover. So this point doesnt  change my overall conclusions  about the complaint.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN79545332what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr D any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr D the difference  between  
what Mr D owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Mr D any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7954533