K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit  card application signed by Miss B in 2004. I can 
see the application form contains  a section about PPI. I note a box has been  marked with a 
cross to add PPI to the account. 
The cross was printed  on the application form and Ive thought about this. The credit  card 
was applied for during a meeting. The application form contains details of Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time. So I think the form was likely  completed  during a discussion, then 
printed and passed to Miss B to check and sign. I think  its likely  the PPI was discussed and 
accepted by Miss B during this conversation. 
I also note the PPI remained on the account for some  time and the premiums  would have  
appeared on Miss Bs monthly statements. If Miss B had not agreed to the PPI, or didnt 
want it, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not see any evidence  
that she did so.
Overall I think  Halifax made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this after so many 
years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Miss B has told us she wouldnt receive  sick pay from her employer if she was unable  to 
work. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if Miss B couldnt  
work. Itd also have paid out if she lost her job. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Miss B off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss B back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN75452182If it hasnt  done  so already Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Miss B now Ive issued  my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7545218