K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a credit card. Mrs T says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
her the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs T says the forms were sent to her following a call with Barclays but she wasnt  explained  
anything about  the policy. She says she just signed the forms and sent them back, and she 
was not given the option to opt out of the cover. 
But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think Barclays  did make  it clear Mrs T didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
I say this having seen a copy of the application  form Mrs T completed and signed. This 
included a section  with PPI where Mrs T has ticked the yes option to agree to the policy. But 
there is nothing here to suggest Mrs T had to tick this box in order to get the credit  so I 
think it was clear that PPI was an optional extra. Mrs T signed this application form so I think 
this reflected what she wanted  at the time.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. 
Mrs T feels that this shows the PPI was mis-sold. But Barclays were  not obliged  to advise 
customers about the policy, but it did have  to make sure Mrs T got the information she 
needed to decide if the policy  was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  And Mrs T feels strongly that she wasnt given any information about  the 
PPI. But, even though Mrs T cant remember what her employment was at the time,  based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Mrs T also didnt have  any savings  at the time and cant  remember if 
says had any sick pay  so I dont think better information about  the policy wouldve put her 
off taking out the cover. Mrs T has told us about  a life insurance policy she had at the time,  
but this policy was designed to cover her for different eventualities than the PPI. So this point 
doesnt change  my decision. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because : 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN71719312To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mrs T any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Barclays should pay back to Mrs T the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mrs T 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs T can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7171931