complaint
Mr H complains TSB have refused to reimburse  £20,087.83 which was stolen from his bank 
account after his daughter  fell victim to a scam.
TSB argues Mr H is responsible for the loss because he shared his sensitive security 
information with his daughter. It also doesnt  think that it should have intervened  in the 
transactions.
background
I set out the background  and my provisional  findings for this complaint in my provisional 
decision, where I upheld it in part. Ive attached  a copy of it and so dont intend to repeat all of 
the detail here. 
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr H has let us know he accepts my findings. TSB 
hasnt responded  and so Im proceeding to issue my final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr H has accepted my provisional decision and TSB 
hasnt responded  to it theres no new information for me to consider. With that in mind I see no 
reason to reach a different outcome to the one I reached previously and I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint in part.
putting things right
TSB Bank plc should:
refund  Mr H £7,635.33 (representing 50% of the unrecovered sum) of the loss he 
suffered as a result  of the scam,  and
pay interest at the applicable savings account  rate from the date the money was lost to 
the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268465Copy of provisional decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about Mr Hs complaint. Based on what  Ive seen so far, I 
intend to partially uphold it.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 3 March  2021.  But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines. 
complaint
Mr H complains TSB have  refused to reimburse £20,087.83 which  was stolen from his bank account  
after his daughter  fell victim to a scam.
TSB argues  Mr H is responsible for the loss because he shared his sensitive security  
information with his daughter. It also doesnt think that it should  have intervened  in the 
transactions.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I intend to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
1.Neither side disputes  that it was Ms H, Mr Hs daughter  and not a properly authorised used of 
the account,  who received a phone  call from someone impersonating a telecoms provider.  It 
is agreed that Mr H played no part in authorising  the transactions himself.  Consequently the 
payments must be treated as being unauthorised  for the purposes  of the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017).
2.TSB and our investigator agreed that Mr H had failed to keep his account security  information 
secure as hed shared  them  with his daughter. Under  the provisions  of the PSR 2017,  and 
the terms of his account, Mr H would therefore be responsible for the payments  as hed failed 
either with intent or gross negligence to keep his security credentials secure.
3.Our investigator argued this finding was the starting point for considering  liability and that 
TSBs obligations  to protect and monitor accounts should be taken  into account.  TSB argue 
that this finding should be the conclusion on liability, rather  than the starting point.
K800x#10
Ref: DRN72684654.I agree with our investigator that a finding of gross negligence or intent  is the starting point for 
assessing liability. Its important to note here that the actions of Ms H are not a consideration 
in the circumstances  of this case; there isnt an assessment of whether  her actions, in being  
convinced by the fraudster, were grossly negligent  or not. That is not a relevant  consideration 
under the account terms or the PSRs. Whats important  is Mr Hs actions. And Im satisfied he 
has failed with intent in sharing his security  credentials with his daughter.  And so the starting 
point is that he is liable for the disputed transactions. But, taking account of the law, 
regulatory rules  and guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and good industry practice  at the 
time, I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for TSB to:
a.Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks,  including  anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
b.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,  
which banks are generally more  familiar with than the average customer.
c.In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used,  have taken 
additional steps,  or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect  customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
5.Our investigator, in upholding this complaint,  felt that the first series of transactions that took 
place, namely  a transaction from Mr Hs savings account to his current account of £5,500 
followed by a transfer  to the scammer of £9,145 should have been questioned by TSB as 
suspicious. The external  transaction  was to a new payee, used almost all of the available 
balance of the current account  and was unusual  in nature  for the account.
6.TSB,  in their response to our investigators  initial assessment, submitted that there were, by 
way of example,  four comparable payments between one of Mr Hs savings accounts and his 
other accounts over the previous year  the largest being a £3,000 transaction on 5 July 
2017. TSB argued that the transfer between accounts, and particularly  from a savings to a 
current account is normal and expected customer behaviour.
7.It also argued that there had been similar payments made from Mr Hs current  account, both 
in size and in percentage of the overall  balance. The largest  payment it identified in the year 
prior to the event was a £2,000 faster payment carried  out on
14 August 2017. It also identified a £5,000 withdrawal  carried out about two years before the 
event. Finally it argued that, while the payments might have  reduced individual account 
balances to near zero,  the transactions  only consumed  about 45% of the overall balance of 
Mr Hs account holdings.
Ref: DRN72684658.I agree with TSB that it might not be unusual  for money  to be transferred from a savings 
account in a lump  sum. However, the first external transfer from Mr Hs current account  was 
more than four times  larger than any other payment that had been made in the previous 
year. One needs  to go back almost two years to find a transaction  which is only just over half 
as large as that first payment to the fraudster, a frequency of transactions  which couldnt  
reasonably be described as usual activity.
9.The £9,145 payment  was also to a new payee and (although TSB lack the records to 
demonstrate this) may well have been carried out using a device  that had not been used for 
online banking previously.  Im therefore persuaded that the first external  transaction  should  
have alerted TSBs fraud monitoring systems.
10.Had TSB taken additional steps before processing that payment, Im satisfied the scam would  
have been prevented. Attempts to contact Mr H would  have led to one of the following:
a.Mr H would have discussed the circumstances with the bank and the scam  revealed. 
This is a relatively well-known scam and, even if Mr H had asked to first consult with 
his daughter before  deciding whether the payments were genuine, the scam would 
surely have been revealed in any follow up conversation.
b.Mr H would not have been available to speak with the bank and so the 
payments would have been  stopped.
11.And if the bank had simply blocked the payment  whilst awaiting contact from Mr H, the scam 
would also likely have  been avoided. He would have eventually had to contact TSB himself if, 
after discussing  the payments with his daughter, he wished for them  to be unblocked and 
allowed to leave his account. Again the conversation would then more likely than not have 
turned to the purpose of the payments and their true nature revealed.
12.Any discussion with the bank ought to have involved  concerns being  identified and 
explained. The bank  ought  to have talked through the reasons it was calling and gone 
through the hallmarks  of a scam like the one Mr H was the victim  of. Had it done so Im 
satisfied the loss would have been  prevented.
13.Im satisfied then that TSB, in not reaching out to Mr H to ensure he wasnt at risk of 
suffering financial harm,  has been at fault and ought to repay  the loss suffered as a result of 
the scam.
14.Ive considered whether  Mr H should bear any responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. He has been at fault in breaching the terms and conditions of his account  by 
sharing his security credentials. That is clear  and so I dont believe  it would be fair and 
reasonable for TSB to bear sole responsibility for the loss. Neither  would it be fair and 
reasonable to hold Mr H solely responsible, given the fault on TSBs part.
Ref: DRN7268465K821x#1515.Im satisfied that Mr Hs decision to share his online banking details did materially 
contribute to the success of the scam and, because of this, its fair to reduce  the 
redress payable by TSB by 50%.
16.Some funds (£4,817.17) were recovered from the recipient bank and have been refunded 
to Mr H already. And so the redress payable  by TSB is on the outstanding  loss of 
£15,270.66. Which means TSB should refund Mr H £7,635.33. I dont believe it would  be 
fair to require TSB to pay 50% of the total loss, without first deducting the recovered  
funds, otherwise it would be refunding in excess of half the money  lost by Mr H and the 
position on shared  liability would not be equal.
17.TSB should add interest to the £7,635.33 at the applicable  savings account  rate from the 
date the money was lost to the date of settlement. That would appear  to be the fair rate to 
calculate an interest payment as it seems more  likely than not the money  would have 
otherwise remained in Mr Hs savings account, but for the scam.
 my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint along the lines Ive set out above.  Ill await any final 
submissions from both parties before issuing  my final decision.
Any further submissions should reach me by 3 March 2021 if they are to be considered.
Ben Murray
  ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268465