K822xComplaint
Mrs N complains that Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited (trading as Evans 
Halshaw) (PFI)  mis-sold her a finance  agreement for a new car.
Background 
Mrs N entered a conditional sale agreement  with a finance provider in 2015  to acquire a new 
car. Mrs N says that the finance agreement was misrepresented. She explained that her 
previous agreement had an annual mileage  of 10,000 miles and she had requested this for 
the agreement  but was told this would cost more. She says that she understood the 
agreement would have  an annual mileage of 8,000  miles. In 2017 Mrs N became aware that 
the annual mileage allowance was only 5,000  miles and also that the charge  for excess  
mileage was higher  than she had been told. She says she had budgeted for the excess  
mileage based  on an annual allowance of 8,000  miles  and didnt agree that she should pay 
the amount being charged.
PFI issued a final response letter dated July 2018.  It said that different quotes were provided  
and that a higher mileage amount would have resulted in higher monthly payments. It said 
that Mrs N signed  the agreement  with the 5,000 mileage allowance  clearly  stated. It thought  
that Mrs N had been provided  with adequate  information prior to and at the point of supply 
for her to be aware of the terms of the agreement  and in particular the mileage  allowance 
and excess mileage charge. 
Mrs N disagreed with PFIs response and brought her complaint  to our service.  She said that 
if shed known about the excess  mileage  charge she would have kept the car or part 
exchanged it at the same dealership. 
Our investigator said that the finance  agreement set out the annual mileage limit as 5,000  
miles and that Mrs N had signed  this. She noted  that several quotations were generated 
before the agreement  was signed in May 2015  each with slight variations  but with 
repayments of around £300 a month. The quotations  provided  were for an annual mileage of 
6,000 miles and then an annual mileage of 5,000  miles  and no quotations were provided for 
8,000 or 10,000 miles. She thought this suggested  a particular budget was being worked 
towards. 
Our investigator considered the quotations  provided and found that Mrs N could have taken 
the 6,000 annual mileage  option for a similar cost as the 5,000  miles option. She thought  it 
reasonable to accept  that the mileage allowance had been discussed at the point  of entering 
into the agreement  and that the allowance was an important factor for Mrs N. She accepted 
that a mileage allowance of 8,000 or 10,000  would  have  resulted in higher monthly 
repayments but thought  that Mrs N wasnt treated fairly by not being given the 6,000 mileage 
allowance which was at a similar cost.  Because of this she recommended  that PFI pay 
Mrs N an amount equivalent to the 9p excess mileage charge for 1,000  miles per year pro 
rata for the time the agreement was active and also £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
this had been caused. 
PFI didnt agree in that it thought Mrs N had been  provided with enough information at the 
point of supply  and had agreed to this by signing  the agreement. However,  it agreed  with our 
investigators overall recommendation.
Mrs N didnt agree with our investigators  view. 
Ref: DRN78681222My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigator  for the following reasons:
Mrs N signed a finance agreement for a new car and in doing  so agreed to its terms 
and conditions. The agreement  included  the annual mileage amount and the charge 
for excess mileage.
Several quotations  were generated before Mrs N signed the finance agreement. 
These had slightly different features, but the monthly payments were  all around £300. 
This suggests that a budget of £300 a month  was being  worked  towards.
Mrs N says that she initially wanted an annual mileage of 10,000 miles as she had 
this on her previous  agreement but was told this would  cost more and so an 8,000 
mileage allowance  was discussed. I accept that the mileage  allowance was an 
important feature for Mrs N. However,  the quotations generated were for annual  
mileage allowances  of 6,000 miles and then 5,000 miles. This suggests  that a higher 
mileage allowance  didnt meet  the other criteria. I would  expect that a mileage 
allowance of 8,000 per year (all other  things being equal)  would have  resulted in 
higher monthly  payments. 
The agreement Mrs N entered had monthly  repayment of £304.13. The quotes 
provided with an annual mileage of 6,000 miles had monthly repayment costs of 
£304.50. While the quotes didnt have  identical  assumptions, they were similar and 
given the small difference in the monthly repayment amounts and the importance of 
the mileage allowance to Mrs N I think it reasonable that an agreement with a 6,000 
miles annual allowance would  have been set up.
Overall, I think that Mrs N wasnt  treated  fairly, but I do not find evidence  to show that an 
8,000 mile annual  mileage allowance was agreed  or was available at the same monthly cost 
as the agreement that was set up. Therefore,  I agree with our investigators recommendation 
that the redress should be based on a 6,000 mile annual  mileage  allowance.
PFI agreed with our investigators recommendation to refund  Mrs N an amount equivalent to 
the 9p excess mileage  charge for 1,000 miles per year pro rata for the time the agreement  
was active and pay her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. I find this a 
reasonable outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that Pendragon  Finance and Insurance  Services Limited (trading as 
Evans Halshaw) should, as it has agreed, refund the 9p excess  mileage charge for 1,000 
miles per year pro rata for the time the agreement was active  and pay her £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2021.
Ref: DRN78681223Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7868122