K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Skipton  Building Society didnt treat them fairly whilst they were 
experiencing difficulty paying their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G had an interest only mortgage with Skipton.  The mortgage was originally 
taken out with Chesham Building  Society who merged with Skipton in June 2010. In 2009 
Mr and Mrs G separated,  and Mr G left the property.  Mrs G continued to make the mortgage 
payments, but in 2011 she told Skipton she was experiencing  financial difficulties, and 
arrears started to build  on the mortgage. 
From 2011  Skipton agreed several payment arrangements with Mrs G. During  this time 
Mrs G also asked about lower interest  rate products and capitalising  the arrears. However, 
Skipton declined these requests at the time and the mortgage remained on its standard  
variable rate (SVR). The mortgage term ended in April 2015.
In 2016 Skipton took legal  action  to recover the outstanding mortgage balance,  and a 
suspended possession order was granted. Mrs G made several proposals to clear the 
arrears on the mortgage, which Skipton considered. Skipton said it could extend the term of 
the mortgage, but explained it would need  information about both Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances to ensure  this would be affordable for them.  It said it wouldnt make any 
changes to the mortgage without consent from both parties.
Mrs G complained to Skipton. She was unhappy  that Skipton wouldnt agree to a term 
extension with a lower interest rate product  without  receiving  the income and expenditure 
information from her and Mr G. She complained that she felt unsupported throughout the 
time shed  had difficulty with the mortgage payments, and that Skipton should have done 
more to help.
Skipton didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It said that it had tried to help Mrs G with various  
short-term solutions  to her financial difficulties over a number of years, but it had reached  a 
point where it thought  it necessary to involve Mr G in further  proposals.  Skipton  reiterated 
that it would  only consider  making long term changes to the mortgage,  if both 
Mr and Mrs G were involved.
Mrs G didnt think that was fair so she raised a complaint  with our service. She made a 
number of points  about everything  she thought  Skipton had done wrong, but in summary, 
she was unhappy  that Skipton had increased  the interest rate on the mortgage, charged fees 
it said it wouldnt, wouldnt make  any changes to the mortgage without Mr Gs involvement 
and overall hadnt treated her fairly, given her circumstances, by applying to a court for 
possession of the property.
We initially didnt think we should  consider this case because it was referred to us without 
Mr Gs authority. However, Mr G subsequently gave us authority to look into what had 
happened, so thats what our investigator  did. 
By this point, Skipton had taken the property into possession. Mrs G made a number of 
additional points  about Skiptons treatment of her since she referred  this complaint to our 
service in 2016. However, as Skipton had not had the opportunity to address those points, 
our investigator set up a new complaint to address those issues  separately.
Ref: DRN75443832Overall our investigator thought that Skipton  had treated Mr and Mrs G fairly.  He accepted 
that Mrs G had found herself in very challenging circumstances,  but didnt think  it was unfair 
for Skipton to refuse to make any significant changes to the mortgage,  without  Mr Gs 
agreement. He also found that Skipton had treated Mrs G fairly by allowing her payment 
plans to attempt  to clear  the arrears on the mortgage.
Our investigator noted that Mrs G had made very few payments towards the mortgage since  
2015 and hadnt proposed a reasonable way forward. As a result,  he thought  it was fair for 
Skipton to apply to a court for possession  of the property in April 2016.
Lastly, he noted that Mrs G was unhappy that Skipton had not made efforts to make Mr G 
aware of everything  that had happened. He concluded that Skipton had taken appropriate 
steps to involve both Mr and Mrs G. 
Mrs G responded to say that she didnt think the complaint had been properly addressed.  In 
summary she said;
-Skipton had not made sufficient efforts to contact Mr G;
-Skipton didnt do what was required of it under a Department for Work  and Pensions  
(DWP) arrangement for interest payments; and
-Skipton didnt treat her fairly overall in relation to the offers she made to repay the 
arrears and did not act in her best interests.
Our investigator said that the comments Mrs G made had not changed his opinion on the 
case. He also said that Mrs G hadnt raised  a complaint with Skipton specifically about  DWP  
interest payments,  but based on what shed  said, he didnt think  it would have had any 
bearing on whether  or not Skipton  had acted fairly  in taking possession of the property.  
The case  was passed to me to make a decision.    
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 29 May 2020. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
As Ive mentioned  above, this decision will only deal with the issues complained  about  up 
until Skipton issued its final response in August 2016. Im also conscious  that Mrs G has 
sent us a number of detailed submissions about  everything  she thinks Skipton has done 
wrong. I dont intend to answer every  point shes made because  I dont think  that will be 
necessary to reach a fair outcome. My decision will focus on everything I consider to be 
relevant to the main points of this complaint. Specifically, that is whether or not Skipton 
treated Mr and Mrs G fairly whilst they were  experiencing difficulty paying their mortgage 
between 2011  and 2016. 
Skiptons treatment of Mrs G.
From what  both Mrs G and Skipton  have  said and shown us, Mrs G has clearly  been through 
a difficult time, and struggled to pay her and Mr Gs mortgage for a number of years  which  
Ref: DRN75443833resulted in significant arrears building on the account. When  that happens, lenders are 
required to treat borrowers  fairly,  and try to come  to a mutually acceptable  arrangement or 
way forward to address  the arrears. Having reviewed the contact Skipton had with Mrs G 
since learning of her difficulty in 2011,  I think its done that. 
Skipton was in regular  contact with Mrs G from 2011. It had a number of conversations  
about Mrs Gs ability  to make her mortgage  payments and payment arrangements were  put 
in place and regularly reviewed until 2015.  However,  from February 2015 until August 2015 
no payments were made.  Mrs G then paid a small amount  per month  from August 2015  until 
December 2015.   
Over the years Skipton  explored the different forbearance options that were available.  But 
the mortgage was already on interest  only, and Mrs Gs financial situation unfortunately 
hadnt improved  and so she wasnt able to demonstrate that capitalising  the arrears  would  
have been affordable for her either.  Without  a change in Mrs Gs personal  circumstances, I 
think there was little else I would have expected Skipton to do other than offer the short-term 
solutions that it did. So Im not persuaded that Skipton  should  have done more to help Mrs G 
considering her overall circumstances.
The mortgage term had ended in April 2015, and there  were  still significant arrears on the 
account. Skipton  had discussions  with Mrs G about  whether arranging the sale of the 
property was an option to repay the mortgage. However, Mrs G wanted  to stay in the 
property, and suggested different ways forward such as capitalising the arrears, and making  
monthly payments  of £500. However, neither she nor Mr G were able to demonstrate these 
options would be affordable for them. And given the payment  history  of the account, I think 
Skipton was acting  responsibly by requesting this was demonstrated before agreeing to 
these changes.  
Whilst I understand that things were extremely difficult for Mrs G, and she wanted to stay in 
her home, it was clear  that maintaining this mortgage was not sustainable for her. And Mr G 
hadnt provided any information  to show whether it was affordable  for him either.  So whilst I 
understand why it may feel to Mrs G that Skipton  taking legal action  was unfair, Im 
persuaded that it was in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests to help them out of a position  that was 
unaffordable for them. As a result, I dont think it was unfair of Skipton to apply to the courts 
for possession of the property in April 2016.
Mrs G has said that during this time it wasnt fair for Skipton to ask for Mr Gs involvement  
before agreeing to make  any changes to the mortgage, and that it didnt take sufficient steps 
to involve him. 
I understand why Mrs G is frustrated that Skipton wanted Mr Gs involvement,  given the 
circumstances. However,  as both Mr and Mrs G were named on the mortgage and were 
responsible for it, any changes to the mortgage could have affected both of them. As a 
result, I dont think it was unreasonable for Skipton to ask for Mr Gs involvement before 
making significant changes to the mortgage, such  as a term extension.
Ive thought about whether Skipton should  have offered an interest rate product to Mrs G 
when she asked them about this, even though Mr G hadnt given his consent for this to 
happen  given that it was Mrs G that was making  the payments to the mortgage  account. 
But looking  at whats happened, I dont think this would have made  a difference  to the overall 
position of the mortgage,  as the mortgage would have remained unaffordable, and the term 
still would  have ended in 2015, with the full balance needing  to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN75443834When Mrs G asked about interest rate products in 2011, the only rates available to her were 
higher than the standard variable rate she was already paying  so that wouldnt have 
helped her. Mrs G asked about  this again  in 2014, as well as the option of capitalising  the 
arrears. But the information Mrs G had sent about  her income  and expenditure at this time 
suggested the mortgage payments would not have been affordable  for her. The arrears still 
remained on the account, and there was less than a year left on the mortgage before the 
term was due to end. So overall, I dont think Skipton was acting  unfairly by not offering an 
interest rate product  at that stage. 
In 2016, Skipton said it would offer Mr and Mrs G an interest rate product if they could 
demonstrate they could  afford a term extension, and all parties agreed this as a way forward.  
Given the circumstances at the time  I think that was reasonable. As the mortgage  term had 
ended, and Skipton were trying to work  with Mr and Mrs G to establish what  they could 
afford.
I appreciate Mrs G feels Skipton should have done more  to contact Mr G and involve him in 
what was going  on. But Ive looked at the contact notes for the mortgage account, and Im 
satisfied Skipton took reasonable  steps  to contact  Mr G on several  occasions.
Overall, taking into account everything thats happened over the years, I think Skipton took 
appropriate steps to contact both Mr and Mrs G about both potential changes  to the 
mortgage as well as the court action it had initiated.  Im also satisfied Skipton treated 
Mr and Mrs G fairly when  Mrs G was unable to make the full mortgage  payments.
Making changes  in light of DWP  contributions
In relation to Mrs Gs point about  whether Skipton met its obligations under a DWP 
arrangement, I have seen  that she questioned  whether Skipton should have considered 
coming to a new arrangement to apply a new fixed rate as the DWP were making 
contributions to the account. Skipton told Mrs G that despite the DWP making  payments 
there was a shortfall in the monthly payments Mr and Mrs G were required  to make.  
Skipton wouldnt  make  changes to the mortgage until Mr G discussed  his financial position 
with it. Given that this was after the mortgage term had already ended and no extensions or 
other proposals had been agreed, Ive already explained I dont think this was unfair. And so 
Im not persuaded the fact the DWP  were making contributions to the account made a 
difference here, as it didnt address the more pressing issues of the fact the term had ended, 
and there  were significant arrears on the account.
 
Interest rate charged
Mrs G has complained about the interest  rate Skipton charged on her and Mr Gs mortgage 
despite the Bank of England (BoE) base rate having  been at 0.5% or lower  since 2009.
In this case, its unclear what interest rate Mr and Mrs G were  paying before June 2010, but 
since their mortgage has been with Skipton, they were paying  Skiptons standard variable 
rate (SVR). This rate was not intended to track the BoE base rate, and the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage allow the building society to set the rate and vary it (or not), 
providing any changes  made are for one of the reasons  covered  in the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN75443835Having said this, Skipton  has provided  our service with a history of the interest rates applied 
to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage. From June 2010  when Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage moved onto 
Skiptons SVR, the rate remained the same (4.95%)  until 2016, when it was reduced 
following a reduction  in the base  rate. 
The only exceptions to this were when Mr and Mrs G lost the benefit of the direct debit 
discount on a couple of occasions  they were charged the full SVR of 5.2%.  This direct  
debit discount  is a feature offered on all of Skiptons  mortgages, and means that borrowers 
can benefit from a lower interest rate if they choose  this payment method. 
Unfortunately, Mrs G wasnt  always able to make the direct debit payment, and so this 
benefit was removed on a couple  of occasions.  So whilst it may have felt to Mrs G like the 
rate was increasing,  she was actually just losing  the discount that had been applied  
previously. Given this discount is a feature Skipton has decided  to offer to borrowers who 
pay a certain way, I dont  think  it was acting unfairly  by removing it when  the requirements 
werent met.
Whilst the base  rate does generally  affect the interest  rates charged by lenders on 
mortgages, its not the only thing taken into account when lenders determine their rates. 
Skiptons SVR was not out of line with other  rates that were charged by comparable  lenders 
at the time, and Ive not seen anything to suggest it was unfairly  high.
So, overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think Skipton has acted unfairly  by failing to vary 
the interest rate applied to Mr and Mrs Gs account from 2010. 
Fees associated with court proceedings 
Lastly, Mrs G said that Skipton charged £750 in legal fees in relation to a scheduled court 
hearing, although it said it would cancel those  fees if Mr G contacted  it, which he did. 
However, having reviewed records Skipton has given this service  in relation to the fees in 
question, I havent found that it agreed to waive those legal fees.  The court hearing did go 
ahead, and so I think  its reasonable the relevant fees were charged to the account. So I 
dont agree that it ought to have  refunded  them.
Conclusions
In conclusion, whilst I acknowledge the challenging circumstances that Mrs G has faced 
since 2011, for the reasons explained  above, Im satisfied  that Skipton has treated 
Mr and Mrs G fairly whilst they experienced difficulty repaying their mortgage  between 2011 
and 2016.
responses to my provisional  decision
Skipton responded to the decision stating they had nothing further to add.
Mrs G explained she wasnt going  to accept the outcome Id reached. She said the outcome 
reached did not reflect her own experience of events.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mrs Gs most recent comments.
Ref: DRN75443836I understand Mrs G is disappointed with the outcome I reached in my provisional  decision. 
But she hasnt provided any more comments or information for me to take into account. As a 
result, my decision remains unchanged, and I have  nothing  further  to add to my reasoning  
set out in my provisional decision. Whilst I empathise with Mrs Gs situation and what  shes 
been through, Im still satisfied that Skipton treated  Mr and Mrs G fairly  when  they were  
experiencing financial difficulty.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7544383