K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  made a complaint about  how British  Gas Insurance  Limited has handled  
a claim they made on their home  emergency  insurance policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs S had an overnight trip booked within the UK on the 22 December 2018. This 
was important because  they were meeting  up with family members and were taking their 
child to see Father  Christmas. The overnight  stay cost them approximately  £400. 
In the early hours  of the 22 December there  was leak at Mr and Mrs Ss house. A plumber 
attended to fix the leak and explained an electrician would need  to attend because  the 
electrics had got wet. Mr and Mrs S were told that the electrician would attend by 4pm but 
that didnt happen. They were then told someone would be there before 10pm but no one 
attended. Mr S received a missed call in the early  hours of the 23 December but British  Gas 
hasnt been able to confirm whether this related  to an electrician attending or not. An 
electrician attended  at around 9.30am  on the 23 December. 
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy because they say they shouldve been told during their initial call 
to British Gas that an electrician couldnt  work on wet electrics. This is something theyve 
been told by British Gas since. And theyve said if the appointments had gone ahead  on time 
they still couldve made it to their overnight  trip. So they want British  Gas to cover  the cost of 
their missed  trip. 
British Gas acknowledges their service couldve been better. They  explained it wouldnt have 
been possible to say whether an electrician couldve worked  on the electrics until the 
plumber had been to the house. They also said this was a busy time of year and that jobs 
are allocated in order  of priority. Whilst they recognised that this was upsetting for Mr and 
Mrs S they said theyd attended  within a reasonable time frame as the electrician attended 
within 24 hours of that booking  being  made. British Gas offered Mr and Mrs S £50 
compensation and waived  a £60 excess in recognition of what had happened.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought  the offer made  by British Gas 
was fair. She acknowledged there  were  failings in the service they provided. However, she 
noted this had been a very busy period for British Gas and, although theyd  not attended 
within the original  timescales quoted, they had attended within  a reasonable timescale.  So 
she didnt think it was fair for British Gas to pay for the cost of the overnight stay. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They pointed  out that during one of the calls a manager  at British 
Gas had given  them the wrong information,  they had also been told they needed an 
electrician to attend as soon as possible and the scheduled appointment times were never 
met. Our investigator confirmed these points  didnt change  her thoughts  about  the outcome  
of this complaint  because  Mr and Mrs S were told the job had been allocated to the out of 
hours team and had been told it might  take until 10pm for someone to attend. She 
acknowledged the manager  had given the wrong  information but she didnt think that 
ultimately led to the trip being missed.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree because  they said that if British Gas had met the timeframes  
theyd have been able to go away. So I need to make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN70513732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules  and industry  guidance  British  Gas has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. The policy  terms 
say in relation  to timescales say:
Well carry  out any repairs or visits youre  entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I have a great deal of empathy for what happened  to Mr and Mrs S. They  had booked  an 
overnight trip with their family  which had cost a lot of money. And, their young child was 
looking forward to seeing the family and Father Christmas. So I can understand how 
upsetting it must have  been when they couldnt make their specially  arranged  trip and how 
disappointed their young child wouldve been. 
However, I dont think British Gas needs to do anything further to put things right. I say that 
because:
Mr S reported the leak at around 7am and the plumber attended around two hours 
later. Shortly before  10.30am  the same  day British Gas booked an appointment with 
an electrician. British Gas wouldnt  have been  in a position to know  whether  an 
electrician was needed until theyd heard back from the plumber or Mr S. The 
electrician attended within  24 hours  of that appointment  being  made,  which I think is 
a reasonable time frame and is line with the policy terms;
British Gas has explained they allocate jobs in order and taking into account the level 
of priority. Theyve also explained this was a particularly busy time and they were 
working through the jobs awaiting allocation in line with their internal guidelines.  So 
Im satisfied  they did their best to get someone  to Mr and Mrs S before their trip but 
this just wasnt possible because of the demand on their service that day;   
I agree  the communication between British Gas and Mr and Mrs S shouldve been 
much better. Mr and Mrs S were given two timeslots  which werent met. But, Im 
satisfied it just wasnt possible to get someone there within  the original timescales 
they were given for the reasons Ive already explained. If things had gone as they 
should, British  Gas wouldve contacted Mr and Mrs S to say the appointment 
wouldnt be going ahead until the next day. And that wouldve  meant Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve still sadly missed their trip. So I think the compensation offered is fair as it 
reflects the poor customer service Mr and Mrs S received. And I dont think its fair 
British Gas pays for the missed trip as, overall, I think the appointment went  ahead  
within a reasonable timescale;  
Ive taken into account the incorrect information  the manager  gave  when he said an 
electrician wouldnt have been able to work on the electrics for around  48 hours. 
British Gas has since clarified they wouldnt  have known whether the electrics could 
be worked on until the electrician attended. So this doesnt change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint or the compensation offered. 
Ref: DRN70513733my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as I dont think  British Gas Insurance Limited 
need to do anything further  to put things right. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept  or reject my decision before 
18 March 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051373