K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the additional premium that U K Insurance  Limited  has 
charged them for their travel insurance. 
background
Mr and Mrs S have  travel insurance with UKI. The insurance is linked to their bank account 
as part of a package of benefits  for which they pay a monthly fee. They told UKI about some 
medical conditions  and theyve complained about the basis on which  its charged an 
additional premium.
The policy terms and conditions require Mr and Mrs S to tell UKI about any medical condition 
for which theyve been prescribed medication in the previous twelve  months. In summary, 
Mr S has raised the following issues:
Mr S has an allergy, which causes hives in hot weather. Hes entitled to free 
prescriptions because he lives in a particular part of the UK, so he asked his GP to 
prescribe him anti-histamines. But being  prescribed medication means  he has to tell 
UKI about it. He says if he lived in a different part of the UK hed get over the counter 
medication and wouldnt have to tell UKI about it. He doesnt see that UKI has shown 
hes a higher risk than someone with the same allergy being treated with over the 
counter medication.  He also says UKI has wrongly discriminated against him (and 
others) who live in his part of the UK. 
Mr S has been prescribed statins  because hes previously had raised cholesterol 
levels as an alternative to diet based cholesterol control. But as hes prescribed 
medication he has to tell UKI about  it. He says as the statins control his cholesterol 
level he doesnt present a higher  risk to UKI.
He is concerned that UKI, its agent and/or the bank has received commission  for 
arranging the travel insurance  and additional  premium, but hasnt told him about it. 
The additional  medical conditions UKI has charged them for cost around  75% in 
addition to the base price of the travel  insurance.   
UKI said that Mr and Mrs S were required under the policy  terms to tell it about prescribed 
medication, whether  or not the prescription was free. This information was used by its 
underwriter in their judgement of risk. If the medication was over the counter then 
policyholders didnt have to tell UKI about  the medication. In this case, it agreed to waive  the 
additional premium  for Mr Ss allergy. But Mr S had had raised cholesterol levels  in the past 
and so the statins werent just precautionary,  so would attract  an additional premium. It said 
the pricing information was commercially  sensitive. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. In very brief summary  she said that 
UKI was entitled to make its own judgement of risk. Mr S didnt  agree  with her response.  He 
said the heart of the complaint was that UKI could act in what he considered to be an 
opportunist way, stemming from a lack of transparency  and competition.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72355522I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  my reasons, and in doing so Ill focus  on what 
I consider to be the central issues in this complaint. 
An insurer  is entitled to decide the level of risk that its prepared  to accept and whether, and 
to what extent, it will charge additional  premiums for particular medical conditions. 
Mr S says that if he wasnt entitled to free prescriptions then hed pay for his medication over 
the counter and therefore not have to declare his allergy to UKI. I take his point. But many  
people are entitled to free prescriptions, for various reasons. UKI doesnt  have  to assess  
applications on an individual  basis to take this into account. 
As our adjudicator has explained,  its not our role to decide whether  UKI has unlawfully 
discriminated against a consumer as thats  for the courts to decide. But I dont think UKI has 
treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. It would treat anyone receiving prescriptions in the same way 
 theyd need to tell UKI about  medical  conditions where medication has been  prescribed in 
the previous twelve  months, as set out in the policys terms and conditions. This applies 
whether or not the consumer lives in the part of the country where Mr and Mrs S live. 
I understand that in Mr Ss view his allergy doesnt  present  any increased risk to UKI. But 
UKI has shown that it has correctly medically screened Mr Ss allergy, using the same  
underwriting process  as anyone else receiving prescription medicine for that condition.  
Given Mr Ss concern and his strength of feeling  it agreed to waive  the additional premium it 
charged for his allergy. I think that was a reasonable response  to his complaint, but I dont 
think it was required to waive the additional  premium.
UKI is also entitled to take into account the risk of a consumer whos had raised cholesterol 
levels in the past, even  if cholesterol levels are currently controlled by medication.  The same  
applies to raised  blood  pressure controlled  by medication. Ultimately these issues  are risk 
factors for UKI, and it is entitled to take them into account when calculating  a premium.
Its not for this service to tell an insurer how much  it can charge for a particular risk, or to 
make a finding that the amount it charges is not competitive  compared  with other insurers.  
The price  that an insurer charges  for various  risk factors is commercially sensitive 
information, so UKI hasnt  released that information to Mr and Mrs S. I appreciate  that Mr S 
considers that UKI isnt being transparent  but I dont think it was required to give him more 
detail about the additional premium. And its because this information  is sensitive that weve 
agreed to accept it in confidence. But I can see that UKI has used  the correct  information to 
assess the risk presented  to it by Mr and Mrs Ss declared medical conditions, and its based 
the additional premium on that information.  I think its treated them fairly.
Mr S is concerned that UKI hasnt  told him and Mrs S about any commission  that might 
form part of the travel insurance additional premium that it has charged them.  Im aware of 
the legal  case  of Plevin that hes mentioned, which as our adjudicator explained involved 
payment protection policies and lending under  the Consumer Credit  Act. This doesnt apply 
here where  Mr and Mrs Ss travel insurance  is linked  to their packaged bank account. Ive 
not seen anything to show that UKIs  calculation of the additional premium for the disclosed 
medical conditions  included any commission based payment to another party,  whether an 
intermediary or the bank.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with the additional premium theyve had to pay, 
which Mr S says is an additional 75% payment  on top of the total amount they pay for their 
Ref: DRN72355523packaged bank  account fees each year. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think  UKI 
has acted unfairly and I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7235552