K820x#14complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about circumstances related to the closure, by Spreadex  Limited,  of her 
spread betting  positions on 7 August 2018. The main issues are about her reclassification as 
an elective professional client prior to the closure  and then about  the closure event itself.
background
In the main,  Ms D says:
The professional  client  reclassification was inappropriate  for her  she was induced 
by Spreadex to apply for it; Spreadex did not explain parts  of the assessment to her; 
it did not warn her of protection  for retail  clients  which  she would lose as a 
professional client,  which  she lost and which would have protected  her account from 
a negative balance  during  the events of 7 August;  and it failed  to verify the 
information she had provided as part of the assessment.
Spreadex had a conflict of interests in the closure of her positions, it closed them  to 
its advantage  and not hers and it deliberately closed them at lower  and lowest 
price(s) on the day.
Spreadex appears to have breached its RTS 27 obligation.
Spreadex disputes  the complaint. It says the chronology of events  and a summary of its 
position  as supported by documentary records/evidence  are mainly  as follows:
Ms D opened her retail account  in May 2017.She passed the appropriateness 
assessment for the account based  on answers  she gave which confirmed requisite 
knowledge and experience of spread bet and Contract for Differences (CFD)  trading.
In December 2017 it sent her notice of upcoming changes, by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), which were to have an impact on retail  
clients. In January 2018 it sent her information  about an option  to become a 
professional client,  she requested  further information about it and the application 
letter that was sent to her made  it clear  that she did not have to make the application 
and that she could remain a retail client. In May 2018 Ms D made a written  request 
for professional  status, she applied over the following two months  during which she 
provided more information about her profession, knowledge and experience  to pass  
the reclassification assessment  and her reclassification as a professional  client 
took place on 25 July 2018.
With regards to the reclassification assessment  it complied with the regulators rules  
and it has presented evidence of applying  the correct process and evidence of 
applying the quantitative and qualitative  tests correctly. 
There is documentary evidence that Ms D was warned about  the protection  for retail 
clients that could  be lost in the reclassification.  In addition and subsequent to the 
reclassification it took the discretionary decision to retain the protection  she had as a 
retail client  so the detriment she claims in this respect does not exist.  
There is also evidence that she was warned, in writing in June, about losing the 
protection against a negative account balance as part of the reclassification. This 
relates to the changes  introduced  by ESMA which applied from 1 August onwards, so 
even if Ms D had not been reclassified she would not have  had this protection during 
the events of 7 August because her positions  had been  opened  previously  in April 
and June.
Information about the assessment process was available on its website. It disputes 
the claim that there was a mistake  in assessing equity in property as part of Ms Ds 
Ref: DRN72648212financial instruments portfolio. Nevertheless, this related to one of the three 
quantitative tests,  she already  passed the other  two and needed  to pass only two out 
of the three, so this argument makes  no difference to the assessment.
It did not need to verify the information Ms D provided about her trading numbers 
because it relied on her past trading  data which it already had and used. It was 
entitled to rely upon the information she gave about her profession and it accepts that 
there was a discrepancy between  some of the information she gave about wider  
trading experience but it does not consider that there was a basis for it to doubt  the 
truth of the information she provided.
With regards to the closed positions, Ms D emailed an order to Spreadex  at 07:50 on 
7 August to sell some of her positions to a specified prospective buyer. It replied to 
her to confirm the order had been  sent to the specified person and it reminded her 
that if the price  for the positions dropped below a particular level (17.04p)  it would  
trigger liquidation  of her account  and that such liquidation  through closure and sale 
of her positions  would then take place.  The reply also said it would not be able to 
await funds at such a time so funds were needed in the account  in advance.
Neither a response nor funds were received. At 08:04 the price for the positions  
dropped below 17.04p; Ms Ds account went into close  out status; her positions were 
related to a total of around 1.4 million  shares; two auctions  took place, the first 
happened between  08:05 and 08:11 and the second between 08:13  and 08:19; two 
sets of her positions, related to 50,000 shares each, were sold in the second auction 
(booked at 08:21)  and the remainder  of the positions  were sold and booked  by 08:32; 
the size of the positions  which, in total,  was many times the exchange market size 
(EMS) for the relevant  shares   was a factor in the close  out exercise.
The RTS 27 related  allegation is not relevant  to the complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for reasons broadly similar to the points made by Spreadex. Ms D did not accept 
this outcome. In the main, she maintained her core arguments and, in addition,  said the 
ESMA related negative  account balance protection could have been misinterpreted as she 
believes it applies to accounts  in place from 1 August  (irrespective of when positions  were 
opened) and not only to positions  opened from 1 August; the RTS 27 issue  is relevant to her 
complaint in the context of transparency; her professional experience was not properly 
assessed/verified; and Spreadex  ought  not to have solicited her to become a professional  
client. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman. Ms D raised the possibility  that she might have 
additional comments to make and she was essentially told that the ombudsman will consider 
whether (or not) it is appropriate  to delay  a decision if there is a delay in her doing so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D sought  an extension of time up to the end of April this year to make any additional 
comments she might have wished to make. No such comments appear  to have been 
received since. I note information  within  the case file which  suggests  it is in both parties 
interests to conclude the complaint in order for them to know whether (or not) or how the 
matter of Ms Ds negative account balance is to be addressed. In this context and given  the 
absence of additional comments over the past six months, I do not consider that this 
decision should be delayed.
Ref: DRN72648213Professional Client Reclassification
I have taken on board all of the arguments and counter arguments made by the parties in 
this issue  and in relation to the specific complaint  points from Ms D. Overall and on 
balance, evidence suggests that the issue is somewhat limited and that the facts appear to 
render Ms Ds claims either redundant or of lesser  relevance than she has asserted.
The matters  of her reclassification as a professional client and of the assessment process  
she underwent do not appear to be isolated.  They  have been pleaded in relation to the close 
out event of 7 August 2018  and the negative  account balance that resulted from that. Ms Ds 
key argument  is that if she was not unduly  induced into applying  for the professional  client 
status and/or if her application was not approved on the basis  of a flawed assessment 
process, she would  have remained a retail client as of 7 August and she would have 
retained the level of protection  enjoyed  by a retail client   including the ESMA related 
negative account  balance protection  so no negative account balance  would have resulted 
from the close out of her positions.
I consider the following:
With regards to the pre-ESMA level of protection for retail clients,  Spreadexs 
evidence is that it made a decision  to allow Ms D to retain that same level of 
protection despite her reclassification  as a professional client. I have not seen 
evidence to dispute this and, as Spreadex says, the fact that she referred  her 
complaint to this service without its objection  on professional  client related  grounds 
 supports its assertion. It appears  that despite  the reclassification   and the 
arguments that have been made  about it  Ms D continued to enjoy the same pre-
ESMA level of protection given  to retail clients.
Spreadexs decision did not extend to the additional ESMA related protection  for 
retail clients,  which  came into effect on 1 August 2018. I am satisfied with available  
documentary evidence that it notified Ms D in June 2018 that, as a professional  
client, she will not be protected from a negative account balance. I appreciate that 
this has the effect of making her arguments against reclassification relevant. 
However, in response to her comments the investigator provided  her with guidance 
directly from ESMA  which  stated  as asserted by Spreadex and as concluded by the 
investigator  that the negative account  balance protection  does  not apply to 
positions opened prior to 1 August 2018.  Firms  had the discretion to apply the 
protection retroactively  but they were  not obliged to and Spreadexs notice to Ms D 
confirmed it was not prepared to. There is correspondence from her in which she 
shows awareness of this. It follows that even if Ms D had a retail client  account on 
7 August her positions  which she opened prior to August   would not have been 
captured by the negative balance protection.
The overall result is that the detriments which Ms D claims to have resulted from her 
reclassification as a professional client do not appear to have been established. If 
she was a retail account holder on 7 August the close out of her positions would have 
still resulted in the same negative account balance. 
For the sake of completeness, I do not consider that Ms D was unduly  induced into 
the reclassification. The option was presented  to her, she wilfully enquired further 
and wilfully applied for the professional account.  I consider that the reclassification 
Ref: DRN72648214was not flawed, the balance of evidence supports the conclusion that the process  
and tests were correct, that she gave informed input to the process and assessment, 
that trading data used by Spreadex was reliable and that it was entitled to expect that 
Ms D had given accurate  information about her profession and wider trading 
experience  or, in the alternative,  there  does not appear to have been a basis for it 
to doubt that. The investigator commented  that Spreadex  could  have done  more to 
clarify some discrepancy related to her profile. I agree, but I also retain  the view that 
this would not have been sufficient grounds  for Spreadex to doubt Ms Ds responses  
and that the discrepancy did not render  the assessment flawed.  There is evidence of 
sufficient correspondence  and broadly consistent  information from her to Spreadex  
about her profile   relevant to the assessment and presenting  her as a candidate for 
the reclassification with many years of professional experience in the financial sector  
and experience in trading (including CFDs and spread bets)  to conclude  that the 
discrepancy was not pivotal.
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  issues  that have been presented  
in relation to the matter of professional client reclassification.
Closure of Ms Ds positions
Spreadexs entitlement  to close the positions does  not appear  to be in dispute and I do not 
consider that it should be in dispute given that it was entitled, by the Close  Out Level 
provisions within the terms for the account,  to close positions when an account breaches its 
liquidation level  as it did in Ms Ds case on 7 August.
I am not persuaded by the argument  that Spreadex had a conflict of interests  in the positions  
and that it stood to benefit from their closures at a particular price. The positions were closed 
because the price fell to a point that made  them breach her accounts liquidation level, she 
was given forewarning  of this and invited  to fund the account to avoid such  an occurrence, 
but she did not  hence  the closure  that followed.  With Spreadexs reference to the hedged 
positions it took in relation to her trades, there does not appear to be a basis  upon which it 
profited from her loss  given that it faced  the same  exposure she faced. 
In terms of execution  of the close out, the total size of Ms Ds positions   related to over 
1.4 million shares   was significant. Its effect  on the speed of the close  out exercise cannot 
reasonably be ignored. I consider that the total size of her positions explains why only a 
portion of it could be sold in the second  auction and why the majority remainder had to be 
worked, sold and booked over the following 11 minutes. I do not consider that the process  
was unduly delayed. The close out exercise  began around a minute  before the first auction 
and that auction appears  to have been  missed for this reason;  the shares were suspended  
during the auction(s); after the first auction ended Spreadex sought to sell Ms Ds positions  
in the second auction; and as I said above  it could only sell some  of the positions in the 
auction and had to work  the rest thereafter. 
I am mindful  that Spreadex was not obliged to meet a prescribed method of closure, it had 
discretion in this respect  as stated  in the terms for the account  and I do not consider that 
it applied its discretion unreasonably.  It had other accounts in which  other sales  had to be 
worked, it had a sizable  total of positions to sell just for Ms Ds account alone  and it appears 
to have deployed methods to cater, with balance, for the breadth  of all its activities at the 
time. The result was a close  out exercise completed within 28 minutes, during which  12 
minutes were consumed by the two auctions and during which some of the positions were  
sold (and after which Spreadex managed  to sell the remainder positions,  related to over 1 
Ref: DRN72648215million shares, in 11 minutes). I am not persuaded that this constitutes  a mismanaged close 
out exercise by Spreadex.
RTS 27
This relates  to MiFID II Quality  of Execution Reporting, a regulatory matter which  as 
Spreadex says  is not directly  relevant  to the merits of Ms Ds complaint. Evidence of 
execution of her positions  has been made  available to her and to this service. It has been  
sufficient and we have addressed the complaint on that basis.  I consider that her point about 
transparency  as far as it relates  to her case  has been satisfied by available  evidence.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7264821