K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Silicon  Valley Bank (SVB) wont  refund payments  from 
its account that werent authorised.
background
S has two directors. SVB phoned one of them on the evening of 26 October 2018 to ask 
about payments  made using his company debit card that day. S says he didnt make a 
payment to a jewellers for £6,600  and a cash withdrawal of £250.  It says that neither director  
had received their debit  cards or PINs.
SVB said it wouldnt be refunding this money.  The payments had been made by chip and 
PIN. S had ordered debit cards  about six weeks earlier. SVB had emailed on 25 September  
2018 to say that the cards had been processed and would arrive within five to seven 
business days. The cards  and PINs had been sent to one directors  address  that 
registered for the company. Neither director had reported not receiving them and S had now 
indicated that the address used wasnt secure.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld  and concluded that S had 
consented to the payments. She said that:
-The account for S had been  opened in July 2018 and held funds of over £50,000. 
The debit  cards were requested on 17 September 2018. She understood that the 
cards and PINs were  sent on separate days in disguised mail.
-The first use of one of the cards was at 18:59  for a payment of £6,600  that was 
approved. Subsequent attempts to use the card at different jewellers were declined-  
the last being at 19:42. The card was then used to withdraw cash  of £250 at 19:55.
-SVB called the director  of S at 20:28 and there  was a further attempt to use the card 
at 20:47 that evening  which was declined.
-She was surprised that neither  director had reported not receiving the card earlier as 
they had been using  their personal  accounts  to make payments and one had 
indicated it was fairly urgent they be able to use a company  debit  card.
-There was some conflict  in what had been said about the address where the cards 
were sent. The director who lived there  said it was safe but the one who didnt said 
there were issues with post there.  The director who lived there had said his PIN 
advice was later found in one of the upstairs flats but the other  director  said that it 
had already been received before the disputed payments.
-She thought  it unlikely  that someone could have anticipated this mail coming and 
successfully intercepted the items  of post.
-The first transaction  was an unusual one for a fraudster. There  was no balance 
enquiry and the amount suggested  some knowledge of the available money in the 
account. She thought it would be risky for a fraudster to make repeated attempts to 
spend and then to try a cash withdrawal.
-SVB had said it would  co-operate with any police enquiry and it would be a matter for 
the directors to contact police to view any CCTV.
S didnt  agree and made detailed comments which Ill summarise.  It said it had shown one of 
the directors had booked tickets to be abroad at the time of the payments. And the other, 
whose card had been  used, had shown he had been  spending on a payment app close  to 
his home  at the time and from his phone location  was an hours journey away  from where 
the payments  were  made.  The fraud happened  only three weeks  after the time SVB had said 
it was sending the cards and S had received poor service before and being busy didnt 
Ref: DRN77704462chase this up. It has been assumed  the cards were  sent to the correct address  but this didnt 
happen. S says that the PIN for the card that wasnt used was only discovered after it had 
been possible to enter one of the other flats in the building where the director  lived. The 
address where  the cards were sent is secure  in the sense  that a key is needed to access a 
shared lobby. But post has gone to the other  (three)  flats in the past.  
S said that SVB didnt  take sufficient steps to protect  the card and PIN as it sent them at the 
same time, there was no activation  process and the cards hadnt been  blocked for unusual 
activity. Some subjective  assessment  had been  made by our investigator about the directors 
need for the cards and about  what a fraudster might  do. S said it was most likely a fraudster 
would attempt to use the card first and not make a balance enquiry. And that this person 
would try different  shops  and an attempt was made to use the card after it had been  blocked 
which was consistent  with a fraudsters behaviour. S said that SVB didnt tell it about the 
attempted payments. It said that the cards werent  lost by the directors along  with the PINs 
so they hadnt been  negligent. But that they were either  stolen in the post or taken by one of 
the other occupants of the building. It had arranged for CCTV to be given to police and said 
it wouldnt have been so proactive if that was going to show  either of the directors  making 
the payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised S wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
SVB bears the risk under  the PSR of sending the cards and PINs. And S is reasonably  
expected to notify SVB without undue delay of becoming aware of the loss or 
misappropriation of the cards and PINs.  
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did the directors of S authorise the payments on the account, which could have included 
allowing someone  else to use the card?
Im satisfied from the available evidence from SVB that the payments were  authenticated 
when the chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered.  The issue is whether  S 
consented to the payments. I wont be able to say exactly what  happened and Ill need to 
think about what is most likely on the issues key to the outcome here. That will involve me 
applying my judgement  having considered what SVB and S have submitted.
Im first going to look at the nature of the actual and attempted payments. I cant  know 
exactly what any fraudster would do. But I think it odd that no attempt was made  to use the 
cards before 26 October  2018 given they were going to be dispatched about a month earlier. 
And it was a bold move  to attempt a first purchase  for £6,600 in a jewellers  when as S says 
there was going  to be CCTV. There is no way I can see that an unknown third party  would 
have known how much  money was in the account and so that such a payment was likely  to 
be possible. And the evidence about the further  attempted payments indicates to me that the 
Ref: DRN77704463person using the card knew that there was a lot of money available and wasnt  fazed by 
subsequent declines. The attempted use of the card after it was blocked  could  have been  by 
a fraudster or could  have  been a check that it was no longer working as that was about  an 
hour after the previous attempt to use it. I appreciate that one of the directors says he was 
abroad at the time- and the other has given some evidence he says shows  he was making 
purchases elsewhere. That latter evidence is difficult to verify and not conclusive and the 
issue for me remains whether the person  using  the card was doing so with the consent  of S. 
I need to think  about  that pattern of payments alongside the evidence  about how the cards 
were dispatched. Ive seen an example of the type of envelope used to send these items in 
disguised mail with a discreet return address. SVB says its process is to send the card and 
PIN separately. The position of the directors of S is that they didnt know  when the cards 
would be received given past service issues. And so I dont see how anyone else could have 
anticipated the delivery either. 
Some apparent discrepancies in what the directors have said arent conclusive here. There 
is mixed evidence about just how urgently the cards were needed. And the director whose 
card was used for the payments did state in an email to SVB on 5 November 2018 that the 
other director was waiting for the key of one of the doors for one of the flats. And that at that 
time he already  understood the other directors PIN had been received. But the other director  
says he only found his PIN when he entered that flat. I take into account  that the director  at 
the address where the cards were sent likely  had the best understanding  of what  could  have 
happened to his mail there. In the latest  response to this service  S says there had been no 
significant issues with the post at [the directors]  address before which had received multiple 
banking cards before this issue,  and since this issue all of which  have arrived  at the correct 
address...  It seems  that S says a percentage of mail goes to the wrong address but the 
inference to me must be that if so it is generally recovered at other times. 
The cards were due at around  4 October 2018. And SVBs email  about this was an added  
security measure and reminded the directors about  the cards. To me its unlikely that all the 
mail went missing  in some way as described  by S here. 
Ive balanced  all these  factors  in reaching  my decision. Taking into account the pattern of 
actual and attempted payments with the card and the evidence  about how the cards  were 
dispatched I dont  think its most  likely that these payments were  made  without the consent 
of S. Im satisfied S had control of the card and PIN used here and the payments were 
authorised. 
As I find these payments  were authorised I dont consider that SVB ought to have put in 
place any other security measures as it wouldnt have  made  a difference. And nor that the 
time taken  by SVB to investigate  what  happened  was excessive. Its said it has co-operated 
with a police  investigation and which would consider any CCTV available  and all the 
attempted use. So in conclusion its fair and reasonable for SVB to hold S responsible  for the 
disputed payments.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Ref: DRN77704464Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770446