K820x#14complaint
Company S, represented by Mr J, have complained about Highway Insurance Company 
Limiteds (Highway) handling of a claim on their car insurance policy.
background
Mr J said that his company car had been  damaged  while parked and unattended at the end 
of December 2017. He reported the damage to Highway. Highway authorised repairs to the 
car, which were completed  in mid-February  2018.
Mr J sent Highway five invoices totalling over £1,400. He said they were  all charges for 
recovery services  he used  to transport his car and he wanted  the costs  reimbursed. Highway 
looked into the invoices and concluded they were  fraudulent. Highway cancelled the policy;  
reported the matter  to the fraud agencies; and asked S to refund the repair  costs,  which  they 
did. 
Mr J told Highway that three of the five invoices were genuine, but he accepted he had 
doctored two of the invoices. He said he did that because he had bought a wheel for £1,000 
to replace one that was damaged during the incident. But as he didnt  have a receipt  for the 
wheel, he feared he wouldnt be able to claim for it, so he decided to create  two recovery  
invoices worth over £700 so that he could recoup some of the wheel costs. Highway didnt 
accept his explanation and didnt  change their decision. S complained, but Highway didnt 
uphold their complaint.
S brought  their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint, 
but she said Highway  hadnt done anything wrong.
As S didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
S, but I wont be upholding this complaint.  Ill explain why.
In their complaint,  S have  made a number of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Highway have dealt with S in a fair and reasonable  way, and in line with the 
policy. 
The policy says that where the policyholder  provides  false documents to support a claim or 
makes a claim or part of any claim that is fraudulent, false  or exaggerated Highway may: 
cancel a policy; reject a claim; recover their costs paid out on a claim;  and report  the matter 
to fraud  agencies. 
Mr J has been at pains  to explain that he didnt  commit fraud with the aim of making  an 
unlawful financial gain. He said he wasnt trying  to make an unlawful gain because  he was 
entitled to £1,000 as he had paid that amount for a replacement wheel. He said he only 
discovered the damaged wheel after Highway had authorised  the repairs  to go ahead,  so he 
thought he wouldnt  be able to claim for the wheel.  He also said he didnt have  a receipt 
because he bought it from an individual as opposed  to a company. Mr J did supply  a copy  of 
Ref: DRN70487262his bank account showing a payment of £1,000 on 25 January 2018, which he said was 
proof that he paid for the wheel. 
But Highway concluded that the invoices S claimed  for, including  the two Mr J admitted he 
doctored, were  fraudulent.  The three other  invoices  Mr J said he didnt tamper with were all 
from one company. Mr J said they were  genuine transportation costs because  the car was 
taken to and from the repair garage  while waiting for Highways engineer to assess the car. 
But Highways investigation concluded those  too were fraudulent.  
Ive looked at the evidence Highway considered and Im satisfied that Highway reasonably 
investigated the invoices they said were fraudulent. Also, S has acknowledged that two of 
the invoices were fraudulent and whether there were five fraudulent documents or one, in 
those circumstances  the policy allows Highway to cancel the policy,  ask for reimbursement 
of their outlay. So I think Highways  actions  were reasonable and in line with the policy.  So I 
cant say that they have  done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
  
 
Ref: DRN7048726