K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which  started in June 1996.  This 
protected their mortgage repayments  in the event that Mr R couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs R mainly said that the PPI was added without their knowledge and it wasnt  
something they needed. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint. 
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The copy of the signed paperwork  Lloyds  provided  from when the PPI was sold isnt very 
clear. But I can see that in the section headed:  Applying for TSB MortgageSure (this is what 
TSB called its PPI) Mr and Mrs R could say if they wanted PPI  and theres a tick in one of 
the boxes (and from my knowledge of this form and what I can see generally, this looks  like 
the Yes box). 
The next part of the form is headed:  Checking  you are eligible for TSB MortgageSure and 
I can see that boxes  are ticked in answer  to the questions being asked. It appears one of the 
boxes has been  filled in indicating that 100% of the cover is required for the first named 
applicant  Mr R. 
The mortgage offer Lloyds  sent Mr and Mrs R also showed that their total mortgage monthly 
repayment included  PPI. And it confirmed that Mr R was the person who was insured.
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how this policy was sold. But, to be as fair as possible to 
Mr and Mrs R, Lloyds has looked at this complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs R completed 
their mortgage application  in one of its branches  which is what Mr and Mrs R thought  
happened. And it says it wouldve recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs R in these 
circumstances. Looking  at their complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  the best 
chance of succeeding  so I agree this is fair given  the lack of information. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs R arranged their mortgage  and 
took out PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs R to recall in detail what was 
said at the time. This means  that what Mr and Mrs R say now isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at all the available  information  and decide 
what I think is most likely.  
Ref: DRN72713292Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was a major  financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  
number of years. Their  home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have. I think theyd have known  that it was up to them  to say if they wanted it 
because this was information they were asked to provide on their mortgage application. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs R decided they wanted the benefits PPI 
offered and they decided to buy the policy to protect  their home.
This was a joint mortgage so Ive looked  at both their circumstances when the insurance was 
taken out. 
Mr R was eligible for the policy. It doesnt  look like Mr and Mrs R had any significant other 
means they couldve depended on to cover their mortgage monthly  repayments  for very long 
if Mr R wasnt  working.  Although Mr R couldve relied on getting  sick pay from his employer, 
this doesnt mean that PPI wasnt right for them  or that he couldnt have claimed on the 
policy. 
It would be very unusual for someone  to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole 
year. Looking at his employment circumstances I think  its more  likely he mightve had the 
benefit of 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. So I think  its likely  PPI 
wouldve provided Mr R with better cover than he couldve  depended on getting from his 
employer.
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim on top of any sick 
pay Mr R was entitled to. This couldve been  a useful benefit at whats  likely to have  been  a 
difficult time for Mr and Mrs R  especially if they mightve faced extra  costs  if Mr R was ill or 
became disabled. 
Although Mr R had a secure job, and Mr and Mrs R had some means they couldve relied on 
if he couldnt work, this does not mean that PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs. 
Even if the possibility of being made redundant seemed unlikely, there  could be no 
guarantee that Mr Rs job would  remain secure indefinitely. And PPI wouldve  paid out, in 
addition to any work benefits,  providing a useful  benefit at whats likely  to have been a 
difficult time if he wasnt working. 
Mr R was eligible for death in service  benefit  from his employer and he had critical illness 
cover. But PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. 
In coming to my decision Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs R told us they had 
substantial savings when  they took out this mortgage. But I think its likely they mightve  put 
at least some of this money  towards  buying  and setting up in their new home. And I dont 
know if they wouldve  always had savings to rely on if theyd needed  to make a claim as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
I also think that if Mr and Mrs R had the amount in savings that they mentioned, given that 
they didnt choose to use their savings to reduce the amount of their mortgage borrowing, 
this would suggest to me that it was important to them to keep savings intact. Having PPI 
meant Mr and Mrs R could rely on being  able to keep their savings to spend  on other things 
or to provide  them with financial security. 
Ref: DRN72713293Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Overall, it looks  to me like PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R based on what Ive seen  of 
their circumstances at the time.
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if this 
affected Mr R. The policy seems to have been  affordable for Mr and Mrs R when they took it 
out. They signed up to PPI when  they didnt have  to - so it looks  like they wanted this 
insurance at the time. The monthly premium  they had to pay for PPI was set out on their 
mortgage offer  so they wouldve seen  what the PPI was going to cost them each month.  
And, as they paid for this policy on a monthly  basis, they couldve cancelled it at any time 
without losing out financially if they decided  they didnt want  to pay to keep it running. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr and Mrs R still wouldve decided  to buy the policy 
to protect  Mr R even if theyd been  better  informed as it provided useful protection in their 
particular situation.  I dont think having clearer information wouldve put them off buying  it. 
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs R have  lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds mightve  done  
wrong.  
In coming to my provisional decision Ive thought carefully about  everything  that 
Mr and Mrs R have said, including the comments made in response  to our adjudicators 
view. I appreciate they feel very strongly about  this complaint. I understand that what Ive 
said will come  as a disappointment.  In my decision Ive dealt with all the main  points raised  
that have an impact on the outcome  of their complaint and I hope  that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs R have said that this policy wouldve been of no use to them and the lender  
never offered them an alternative policy. Theyre concerned that Mr R wouldnt have been 
able to claim for a year if hed been  made  redundant. And they feel that he wouldve been 
covered by his sick pay at work.  So overall, the policy  wasnt needed
Lloyds hasnt made any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive also checked  the policy document and I can see that Mr R couldve claimed under the 
policy if hed become unexpectedly  unemployed and he was out of work after just 60 
consecutive days  he wouldnt have  had to wait for a year before being  able to claim. 
Mr and Mrs R were free to look elsewhere if they had wanted to see what other policies were 
available  but Lloyds wasnt required to tell them  about policies  it didnt sell. Its obligations 
were limited to providing information about products it offered customers   and making  sure 
that any policy it recommended  was suitable. 
Ref: DRN72713294Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs R told me about Mr Rs sick pay and 
explained in my provisional decision  why I think the policy  was still suitable for them. 
So, after taking carefully into account  everything  thats been  said in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7271329