K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as The Money  Shop) was 
irresponsible to lend her money.
background
The Money Shop gave  Mrs A three loans between November 2011 and January 2013. All 
the loans were for £100. Mrs A rolled loan one over six times. Mrs A took out loan two 
immediately on repaying loan one. Mrs A applied for loan three  while loan two remained 
outstanding.
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs As complaint  be upheld in part. She didnt think that 
The Money Shop carried out adequate  checks  before  agreeing any of the loans.  But the 
adjudicator couldnt say what better checks wouldve shown.
The adjudicator didnt think that it was reasonable of The Money  Shop to keep rolling  over 
loan one. She asked  The Money  Shop to refund any interest  and charges that Mrs A had 
paid on the fourth roll over onwards. The adjudicator also asked The Money Shop to remove  
any negative information about the roll overs from Mrs As credit  file.
The Money Shop accepted the adjudicators  recommendation and said that it would apply 
the refund  against the outstanding balance on loans two and three. The Money Shop said 
that this meant there would still be an outstanding balance of £351.
Mrs A said that loan three was recorded  as closed in 2016. She said that as the loans are 
more than six years old they are statute barred. Mrs A didnt think  that The Money Shop 
should be asking  her to pay money  back on loans two and three.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to require The Money Shop 
to do more than it had agreed to so far.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that  
Mrs A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that The Money Shop  should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors included:
Ref: DRN75637202the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it is important for me to start by saying that The Money  Shop was required to 
establish whether  Mrs A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance  
defined sustainable  as being without  undue difficulties.
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it followed that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their make their repayments in a sustainable manner 
if they have a history  of rolling loans over.
loan one and the roll-overs
I couldnt reasonably  find that The Money  Shop was wrong to agree loan one based on 
knowing  Mrs  As net monthly  income. But I agreed with the adjudicator  that The Money  
Shop shouldnt have agreed  to roll the loan over as many times as it did. 
At the time that there wasnt a cap on the number of times a loan could be rolled over. The 
Money Shop has accepted the adjudicators  recommendation  to put things right in relation to 
the fourth  roll over onwards on loan one. I thought that this was fair and reasonable.
loans two and three
Mrs A needed to defer her repayment of loan one a total of six times. So when  Mrs A asked 
to borrow again  immediately after repaying loan one, I thought  that The Money  Shop 
shouldve suspected that she was most  likely borrowing again to cover the hole that was left 
in her finances by repaying loan one. I thought this meant it was unlikely that Mrs A could 
repay loan two in a sustainable way. 
Mrs A went  on to defer loan two twice. And she took out loan three when loan two was still 
running. I thought  that this pattern of borrowing demonstrated that The Money Shop 
shouldnt have kept lending to Mrs A  particularly given her low declared  monthly  income of 
just over £400.
Ref: DRN75637203I considered it fair to require The Money  Shop to refund any interest and charges that Mrs A 
paid on loans two and three.  And The Money Shop  should also write off any unpaid  interest  
and charges on the two loans.
Mrs A made the point  that more  than six years has passed since she took out loans two and 
three. So Mrs A didnt think that it was fair to allow The Money Shop to apply the refund 
against the outstanding  balances on the loans.  And Mrs A didnt think that The Money Shop 
should be able to ask her to pay the remaining balance.
I explained that this service  cant declare  a credit agreement to be unenforceable   that 
would be up to the courts to decide. And Mrs A also had the benefit of the money lent to her. 
This meant that although  Mrs A hadnt  been  asked to repay the debt for some  time, the debt 
still existed. So I didnt  think it was fair to tell The Money Shop that it couldnt off-set the 
refund against  any remaining principal balance  on loans  two and three  even if this meant 
Mrs A didnt actually receive  any of the refund.
As The Money Shop had sold the debt to a third party debt purchaser, I also set out what 
additional steps it should take.
further submissions
The Money Shop didnt  reply to my provisional decision. Mrs A is unhappy that she still has 
to clear the outstanding balance. Mrs A says the third party debt collector  never contacted 
her about  the debt so she wasnt aware  of it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate what Mrs A says about  the outstanding balance and that she hasnt been asked 
to make any repayments. But I dont think this means  that I can prevent The Money Shop 
from applying the refund against the outstanding  balance if it chooses. 
Clearly if The Money  Shop or any third party  asks Mrs A to make any further  repayments,  
she can raise  her objections with them directly. And if Mrs A is then unhappy with their 
response, I cant see why she wouldnt be able to bring a complaint about  that to this 
service.
Overall, I consider that its fair to make my final decision along  the same  lines as my 
provisional decision.
putting things right  The Money Shops should:
Refund all interest  and charges Mrs A paid on the fourth to sixth roll-overs  of loan one 
and on loans two and three;
 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  loans  two and three;
Ref: DRN75637204If it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loans two and 
three before paying any remaining balance (if there is any) to Mrs A; and
Remove any negative  entries about:
othe fourth, fifth and sixth rollovers on loan one; and
oloans two and three
As The Money Shop has sold the debt to a third party debt purchaser it should buy it back  
before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, The Money  Shop should  (in addition 
to the above if necessary):
Arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest  
and charges  including any added  by the third party;
Refund any interest and charges that Mrs A has already paid to the third party, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The Money Shop to take off tax from this interest. The 
Money Shop must give Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one. If The Money Shop  intends to apply  the refund to reduce any outstanding  balance, it 
must do so after deducting  the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, I require Instant  Cash  
Loans Limited (trading as The Money  Shop) to take the steps set out in the above bullet 
points.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7563720