K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr F bought  the policy in 1990 at the same time as taking out an M & S Chargecard.  Allianz  
have accepted responsibility for this sale. So Ill refer to the business as Allianz in my 
decision.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  because:
 I think Allianz made Mr F aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Fs application form. Section 5 on the form 
was for PPI. This section has an option  to add PPI. This option has been ticked  Mr F 
has signed the overall application  so I think this indicates what Mr F wanted. 
Mr Fs representative  has said ..it is quite feasible  that the sales agent  in the M & S 
store ticked  this box after the form has already  been signed in order to help achieve 
their sales  target. Whilst this is a serious allegation, I havent found evidence  to 
support what theyve said. 
Ive also kept in mind  that the PPI premiums would have appeared on Mr Fs monthly 
card statements when  he had an outstanding  balance. So, if in the less likely scenario 
that PPI had been added without Mr Fs consent, I think he would quite reasonably 
have questioned this with Allianz much sooner than he did. But I havent  seen 
evidence that he did and the PPI remained on the account for some time after it was 
taken out. 
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But they did still have to give Mr F good  enough information  so that he could 
decide if the policy was right for him and if he wanted to take it out.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  For example, whilst I think that Mr F would  reasonably have been 
aware that there was a cost for the PPI, I dont think that the actual cost of the PPI was 
made clear. This policy cost comparatively less (£64p per £100 of the outstanding 
monthly balance) than other PPI policies sold around this time. This policy offered to 
Ref: DRN76881282pay 15% of the outstanding balance in the event of a successful  claim which is 
comparatively higher  than some more  expensive costing policies sold around  this time.
Given the cost of the policy  and the benefit it provided, I dont think  better  information,  
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Mr F also doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances, including  his 
employment being abroad, it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. Mr F 
initially told us that he was entitled  to 6 months  full sick pay. At a later date he told us 
that he was entitled to 9 months  full sick pay. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to Mr Fs sick pay
So having  considered everything, including Mr Fs personal circumstances, I still dont 
think that better information would have changed Mr Fs decision about  buying the PPI.
Ive taken into account Mr Fs comments, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688128