K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about ten loans  Elevate provided  to Mr D between  February 2018 and July
2018. A table containing information  about  Mr Ds borrowing  history  is attached  below. 
I completed a provisional decision on 23 January 2020, setting out what I thought about 
Mr Ds complaint. Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision below, which  forms part of 
this decision. In summary, I thought  that Elevate shouldve carried out a full financial review 
of Mr Ds circumstances before lending him loans 5 onwards, and had it have done this, I 
think it wouldve shown that Mr D was having  trouble managing  his money  and so a 
responsible lender ought not to have lent to him further. So, I upheld  loans 5  8 on this 
basis.
I also considered whether  a pattern of repeat lending had developed  which  suggested Mr D 
was becoming reliant on short-term lending. I thought that pattern of repeat lending  was 
evident from loan 9 onwards  I explained why in my provisional  decision. So, I upheld  loans 
9 and 10 on this basis.  
Mr D has not responded with any comments  or further evidence  for me to consider. Elevate, 
however, have responded with some  additional  comments which  I have addressed below. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the new comments made by Elevate,  summarised below:
Mr D was only required to use a small portion of his monthly  income to make  the 
repayments due under  his loan agreements, so the loans were affordable, and the 
repayments were sustainable;  
He repaid most of his loans on time;
In reference  to a pattern of repeat lending, Elevate  dont agree that a period of five 
months constituted  an extended  period of time; 
Elevate do not agree  that Mr D had paid large  amounts of interest  to service his debt 
over a long period  of time; 
It is incorrect to assume that the number of loans  granted by Elevate alone, in the 
absence of other factors or evidence, necessarily  impaired Mr Ds ability to access 
mainstream credit. 
I dont think any of the above  points  alter my final decision. Elevate has received a number 
of final decisions from colleagues  and our approach to dealing with these types  of cases can 
be found on our website. We would expect Elevate to learn  from these decisions and from 
Ref: DRN70278022our approach when  considering these types of cases. However, in this decision I have 
addressed some of the points Elevate has made. 
As set out in my provisional  decision, Elevate needed to consider whether Mr D would be 
able substantially repay his loans. Although, as Elevate says,  the loans may have seemed 
affordable when looking at Mr Ds income and expenditure, this did not necessarily mean  
that they were. And even though Mr D repaid his loans early, doesnt  necessarily  mean he 
was not struggling  financially.  The regulations say that assessments needed to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and the consumer. It may be reasonable 
early on to rely on what the consumer has said or to rely on assumptions  about their 
circumstances, but it might not be reasonable to do so in all circumstances.
By the time Mr D was applying for loan 5, I think a more thorough check of Mr Ds 
circumstances wouldve been proportionate.  And had Elevate completed a full review of his 
circumstances, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision,  I think  it wouldve realised 
these loans were not affordable for Mr D. 
Elevate dont agree that five months is considered a long enough  period  of time to establish  
a pattern of lending.  But when considering  this I have  not only considered  the length of time, 
but also the number of loans and the way in which Mr D borrowed. 
The FCA and OFT have  both been  very clear that lenders need to consider the potential
harm caused by relending  and that not doing  so would  be irresponsible.  CONC 6.7.22G  
says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements  with the firm for 
high-cost short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements  would be that the total 
amount payable by the customer is unsustainable.  [Note: paragraph 6.25 (box) of ILG]
Section 6.25 of the ILG focuses specifically  on short-term credit products and says that it 
would be a deceptive and/or unfair  practice where a lender is:
Repeatedly refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's existing credit commitment  for a short-
term credit  product in a way that is unsustainable  or otherwise harmful.
Section 6.25 then goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate  agreements  for short-term loan products, one after another,  
where the overall effect is to increase  the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable  
manner
And
The purpose of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary cash flow 
problems experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting sustained 
borrowing over longer  periods,  for which other products  are likely to be more  suitable.
A Dear CEO letter from the FCA in March  2019 said that a high volume  of relending  may be
symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns:
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/correspondence/portfolio-letter-firms-high-cost-lending.pdf
The purpose of short-term loans was set out in OFT guidance (Section 6.25 referenced by
Ref: DRN70278023CONC Section 6.7). The FCA defined what is meant  by this short-term solution (credit  due to 
be repaid or substantially  repaid within 12 months of advancement). And in this complaint, I 
think by the time Mr D asked for Loan 6 he was not likely to have been borrowing to solve  a 
short-term problem but rather to meet an ongoing  need.
I am not concluding  that Mr D was unable to access any form of mainstream  credit  of any 
amount because of Elevates loans. But it is my experience that prolonged use of high-cost
short-term credit over extended periods is more likely  than not to be been viewed negatively  
by other  lenders. And so, I remain satisfied that there was a risk that agreeing further credit 
at this point would cause harm.
Elevate has also said Mr D didnt inform it of any difficulties he was having repaying  his 
loans. Whilst Mr D may not have declared  anything, as Ive already said,  his lending pattern 
should have indicated that something  wasnt right.
So having  thought about the points Elevate has made, these  havent  changed my mind  
about which loans  I think should be upheld. And for the reasons Ive outlined  above, and in 
my provisional decision I still think Elevate was wrong to have provided loans 5 to 10.
Ive taken everything Elevate has said in to consideration but it does not change my 
decision. Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint about loans 5 to 10.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Ds complaint about loans 5 onwards  for the reasons set out above and 
those outlined in my provisional  decision. Elevate Credit International Limited should put 
things right as outlined in my provisional  decision.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (Elevate) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  10 loans Elevate provided to Mr D between February  2018 and July 2018. Mr 
Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Ref: DRN70278024LoanDate taken  
outInstalmentsDate 
RepaidLoan 
amountLoan + interest
1 06/02/2018 6 09/05/2018 £150.00 £238.57
2 16/02/2018 6 23/03/2018 £100.00 £124.79
3 23/02/2018 6 27/04/2018 £50.00 £69.72
4 07/03/2018 6 17/04/2018 £100.00 £124.85
5 27/04/2018 6 26/10/2018 £300.00 £515.51
6 09/05/2018 6 27/07/2018 £100.00 £142.92
7 24/05/2018 6 24/08/2018 £50.00 £82.59
8 19/06/2018 6 27/07/2018 £50.00 £62.55
9 27/07/2018 6 26/10/2018 £150.00 £225.28
10 27/07/2018 6 25/10/2018 £50.00 £72.40
Our adjudicator felt that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt  be upheld. Mr D appears to have accepted the
adjudicators findings about these loans, so as these loans  are no longer in dispute, I wont
be considering them further. But I have thought  about  these loans in the context  of the
overall lending relationship.
Our adjudicator felt loans 4 onwards shouldnt  have been given. Elevate disagreed, and the
complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Elevate needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr D
could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a
number of different things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Elevate  should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could  be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN70278025I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Elevate was required to establish  whether  Mr D 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Elevate has told us that before agreeing to lend Mr D any of the loans it enquired about  his
income and expenses at the time to check they were affordable for him. But our adjudicator
felt that by loan 4 Elevate  shouldve realised that Mr D might have been  having problems
managing his money.  And that his history  with it so far ought to have made it aware that it was 
unlikely Mr D wouldve  been able to substantially  repay this loan or any subsequent
loan. Elevate responded disagreeing with this finding on the basis that, even though loans 1-3 were 
outstanding at this point, it felt Mr D had more than enough disposal income  to cover the combined  
minimum payments  for loans 1-4.
Ive re-considered the evidence and have thought about what Elevate has said.  Having
looked closely  at Mr Ds lending history I can see that loans 1  3 were all taken out within  a
month but were all for small amounts, and the amounts  borrowed decreased each time.  At
the time Elevate agreed to lend Mr D loan 4, loans 1  3 were still outstanding, and this is a
concern. But I agree that as the loan amount was still low in relation to Mr Ds declared
income and disposable funds, it was reasonable and proportionate  for Elevate to rely on
what Mr D had told them  about his financial  situation  to agree to loan 4. So Im not intending
to uphold Mr Ds complaint about this loan.
However, I do think Elevate shouldve completed a more thorough review  of Mr Ds financial
situation before agreeing  to lend him loan 5. I say this because  although by this point Mr D
had paid off loans 2 - 4, loan 3 was paid off on the same day as Mr D took out loan 5, and
loan 4 was paid off just a few days earlier. Also loan 5 was for a significantly larger  amount
than Mr Ds previous loans.  So, these things suggest Mr D may not have been managing  his
money well.
Having looked at the information  provided  I think a proportionate check before  approving
loans 5 - 8 wouldve  most likely shown that Mr D:
had outstanding loans  with a number  of other short-term lenders;
had other regular commitments which reduced the amount of expendable  income  available;
was regularly  overdrawn  on his bank account, suggesting he had more outgoings than 
income.
All of the above factors demonstrate that Mr D was having problems  managing  his money
and he would  be unlikely  to be able to repay this loan, and the subsequent  ones,
sustainably, So Im intending  to uphold Mr Ds complaint  about  loans 5 to 8.
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Elevates lending  history with Mr D, with a view to
seeing if there  was a point at which  Elevate  should reasonably have  seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Elevate should have realised  that
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Ref: DRN70278026Our adjudicator felt that this point had been reached by loan 6 on the basis that by the time
Mr D took our his 6th loan Elevate shouldve realised that Mr D had developed a pattern  of
lending and that it was more  likely than not Mr D was having to borrow to money to meet  an
ongoing need.  Elevate  responded to say that the nature of the product it provides allows  for
customers to take out up to four loans at the same time in order to give them more flexibility
to manage their finances. Elevate says that this was taken into consideration when each
loan application was assessed.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Elevate  has said and Ive considered  that Mr D did take out
some small loans out in quick  succession   so utilising  the flexibility that Elevate offered.
And looking at Mr Ds lending  pattern  I dont think Elevate ought to have reasonably realised
that further lending was unsustainable, and potentially  harmful, by loan 6. However, I do
think this point  had been reached  by loan 9. I say this because:
At this point Elevate  ought to have  realised  Mr D was not managing  to repay their loans 
sustainably. Mr D had taken out 8 loans within 5 months. And even though  some loans were 
for small  amounts and taken out close together, this is still a relatively  long time to be using 
short term lending. So, Elevate  ought  to have realised it was more likely than not Mr D was 
having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loans were leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
At the start of the loan chain, in February 2018 Mr Ds borrowing ranged from £50 to £150.  At 
the end of the chain,  in July 2018, Mr D borrowing still ranged from £50 to £150  and he was 
often borrowing  as much  each  month. So, Elevate ought to have known  that Mr D was not 
likely borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Elevate. Loan 10 was taken out 
5 months after Mr Ds first. And although Mr D was borrowing fairly small amounts each time, 
he was often taking out multiple loans in one month. So, Mr D had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Elevate over an extended  period.
I think  that Mr D lost out because Elevate continued to provide  borrowing from loan 9
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Mr D borrowed  was likely to have had 
negative implications  on Mr Ds ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these  high-cost  loans.
So I currently  also intend to uphold the complaint about loans 9 and 10 and intend to instruct
Elevate to put things right as set out below.
putting things  right
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans  5 - 10;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  5 - 8 from Mr Ds credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 9 onwards means any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So, all entries about loans  9 and 10 should be removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Elevate to take off tax from this interest.  Elevate must
Ref: DRN70278027give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to partially uphold Mr Ds complaint as outlined above.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 23 February  2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027802