K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy about Society of Lloyds declining his fire claim for misrepresentation (not 
correctly providing requested information)  and voiding (cancelled from the start) his home  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr D had a fire at his home and contacted Society  of Lloyds to make  a claim. Loss adjusters 
were appointed to inspect  and validate the claim.  When the property was inspected  the 
adjusters noted  that the house was a static  home.  The adjuster  passed  this information to 
Society of Lloyds for review. Society of Lloyds contacted Mr D to say it didnt cover  static 
homes and had it known it would never have offered cover,  it voided  his policy,  refunded  his 
premiums, and declined  his claim. Mr D didnt  accept  this and brought  his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr D didnt provide a clear answer when 
asked a question  about the type of property.  Our investigator noticed that the adviser  didnt 
clarify and just moved on to the next question. So she said Mr D didnt misrepresent any 
information. She noted that when he set the policy up through  a comparison website hed 
used the limited options that were available  to answer the questions put to him. She felt Mr D 
had picked the nearest equivalent  he could. Our investigator said Society  of Lloyds should 
reinstate Mr Ds policy and look into his claim. She also said Society of Lloyds  should  
remove any record from internal and external insurance databases about the policy  being 
voided.
Society of Lloyds didnt  accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 also known  as CIDRA. The Act states  a consumer  has a duty to "take  reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation" when  answering questions at the point when they buy 
or renew  an insurance  policy. If a consumer doesnt  take reasonable care and 
"misrepresents" something, and that impacts  on the policy, an insurer might have a remedy  
against the consumer. But if the consumer took reasonable care then, even if there was a 
misrepresentation, the insurer cant take any action  against the consumer.  Its stuck  with 
the contract  it entered  into.
I dont think its down  to Mr D to know what information Society of Lloyds wanted in order  for 
it to provide him with a policy. I think its Society of Lloyds responsibility  to ask questions  it 
needs answers to and to make sure that it gets those  answers.  In this case  a question was 
asked but it was clear  throughout  the call that the adviser was rushing through the important 
detail and unsurprisingly Mr D went along  with that. Mr D isnt the insurance  professional  and 
he never answered the question. Instead of reiterating the question  to Mr D the adviser  just 
answered it for him and moved on to the next question. That isnt a misrepresentation. 
Theres no indication at all that Mr D didnt  want to answer the question or that he gave 
incorrect information. 
Ref: DRN79349812I cant see any valid argument  from Society of Lloyds that Mr D didnt take reasonable care 
when the adviser  chose  to move on without him having answered. I think  there  could only be 
a misrepresentation  if Mr D failed to take reasonable care. Not being given a chance  to 
answer isnt a lack of reasonable care or a misrepresentation. For Society of Lloyds to void 
a policy  for misrepresentation it has to clearly show that a misrepresentation has taken 
place. I dont think it has done that. 
I dont dispute  Society  of Lloyds point about the property not being one it would want to 
insure. I accept this. However,  that doesnt  allow Society of Lloyds to void the policy  and 
decline the claim for misrepresentation when a misrepresentation hasnt occurred.
I think Society of Lloyds acted unreasonably  when it voided  Mr Ds policy.  I think  it should  
reinstate his policy, make arrangements with him to repay the refunded premiums, update 
internal and external databases about the removal of the voidance  and reconsider his claim 
based on the policy terms and conditions.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Society of Lloyds to:
reinstate the policy and arrange  premium payments;
remove the voidance  from Mr Ds policy;
update the records  on any internal and external databases correctly;
reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7934981