K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that NRAM Limited hasnt treated her fairly  during a period of financial  
difficulty.
background
Ms G has a buy-to-let mortgage with NRAM. She says that in the past two years  she has 
had health problems and some difficult personal circumstances. That has led to her 
mortgage falling into arrears. 
Ms G says that she intended to sell another property she owned to bring this mortgage  up to 
date. But she needed to carry out some  work  before it was ready  to sell. She says that 
NRAM hasnt offered her appropriate support and has been difficult to communicate with. In 
particular, Ms G says that it insisted  that she provide evidence that the property was up for 
sale and being  marketed before it would agree a payment plan, despite knowing about  her 
poor health and personal circumstances, and the need for work to be carried  out. Ms G 
thinks the arrears management  charges NRAM has applied are unfair.
Our investigator said that she thought  that although  NRAM  had helped  Ms G at times, it 
hadnt acted fairly when  on one hand it gave Ms G time to sell the property, but on the other 
hand wouldnt agree  a payment arrangement unless Ms G could show  that the property was 
actively being marketed.
The investigator said that NRAM knew about Ms Gs personal circumstances and it ought 
reasonably to have  given  more consideration to that and tailored its approach accordingly. 
She said that NRAM should reverse  the arrears fees it applied between January and 
October 2018 and pay Ms G £150  to reflect the trouble and upset she experienced because  
of the additional contact  from NRAM that wouldnt have bene  necessary had it acted 
reasonably.
NRAM responded to make a number of points:
It accepted that Ms Gs circumstances were exceptional but it was entitled  apply  arrears  
fee as there was no payment arrangement in place and to reflect  the additional work it 
carried out.
It was fair for it to attempt contact, even  in view of Ms G;s personal  circumstances. 
Especially as it had given her a grace period  of no contact and Ms G hadnt contacted  it 
as agreed.
Ms G had only made one payment during the time in question.
 It didnt  consider that considerable  distress had been caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN73758732NRAM was aware of Ms Gs personal  circumstances. I consider that it acted reasonably 
throughout 2017 by agreeing payment  arrangements and treating her sympathetically.
In 2018, when a payment arrangement was broken, NRAM spoke to Ms G. She said that 
she was going  to sell another property and would be able to clear the arrears once that 
happened. But NRAM said that it would  only agree  further payment arrangements once it 
had evidence the property was actively being marketed .Ms G explained that the property 
needed essential work before it could  be sold, but NRAM continued to say that it needed 
evidence of marketing  before it could do anything.
I think the approach  taken  by NRAM in this case wasnt appropriate or fair. It was 
unreasonable for it not to consider any concession until it had evidence  the property was 
being marketed.  It ought to have done more to listen to what Ms G was saying and to tailor  
its approach  particularly in view of what it knew about her circumstances. I think if it had 
done so it could have asked for evidence that work  was needed and that it was going to be 
carried out. It was unreasonable to continue asking for proof of the property being marketed 
when Ms G had explained  a number of times why that wasnt  possible.
If NRAM had taken  a reasonable approach, I see no reason why Ms G wouldnt have 
provided the necessary proof  and a payment arrangement have been agreed.  So I think  it 
would be fair for NRAM to reverse all of the arrears fees it has applied  since  1 January 2018 
until 4 October 2018. Im not sure of the position of the mortgage after that point.
It also seems  likely that NRAM  wouldnt  have  had to contact Ms G as much as it did had it 
adopted a reasonable  approach.  I think this additional contact has caused her additional 
trouble and upset,  over a period of around nine months and would not have helped  her 
heath at what  was already a difficult time for her. I accept that its likely that Ms G would 
have suffered some trouble and upset anyway. But I think that NRAMs unfair treatment  has 
added to that. In the individual circumstances of this complaint, I think  it would be fair for 
NRAM to pay Ms G £150 to reflect that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that NRAM Limited should:
Reverse all of the arrears management fees it has applied  to Ms Gs mortgage from 1 
January 2018  until 4 October 2018.
Pay Ms G £150 directly for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7375873