K822xcomplaint
Miss L complains that it was irresponsible of Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis)  to increase 
the credit  limit on her credit card.
background 
Miss L opened a credit  card account  with Vanquis in October 2011. The initial  credit  limit 
was £250. The limit was increased  four times  in the period from 2013 to 2016. The increases 
were offered  by Vanquis each time, without Miss L having to apply.
In 2018, Miss L complained to Vanquis about  the increases to the credit  limit. She said she 
had other  debts at the time of the increases and that there  were  defaults recorded on her 
credit file. She said this should have stopped Vanquis from increasing  her credit limit and 
that theyd been irresponsible in doing so. She asked them  to refund the interest  shes paid 
on the account and pay her interest on that.
Vanquis didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint  to begin  with. They  said theyd carried  out checks  
which were proportionate to the amount of credit being granted. And they didnt think  theyd 
acted irresponsibly by offering to increase  the credit limit.
Miss L wasnt  happy with Vanquis response so she brought her complaint  to this service.  
During the investigation by our adjudicator, Vanquis reviewed the complaint. They said they 
were satisfied that the first two credit  limit increases in 2013  were appropriate. But they said 
they didnt think  they should have offered to increase the limit in 2014.  
Miss Ls credit limit had increased from £1,750 to £2,500 on 6 June 2014. Vanquis offered to 
refund additional interest Miss L had paid from that date onwards where the account balance 
had been more than £1,750. They also offered to refund a late payment  charge from 
October 2016. And they offered to pay simple  interest of 8% per year on the amounts to be 
refunded. Vanquis  also said theyd  reduce  Miss Ls credit limit to £1,750.
Miss L asked Vanquis to refund  all the interest  shed  paid since 6 June 2014, not just the 
interest on balances  over £1,750. But our adjudicator thought what  Vanquis had offered was 
fair so he didnt ask them  to do any more.  Miss L asked for her complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information available, I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly by increasing Miss 
Ls credit limit in 2013. But I agree  with our adjudicator that the later increases shouldnt 
have been offered to Miss L, in light of information  about her financial situation which was 
available to Vanquis at the time.
I think the way that Vanquis have offered to put things  right is fair.
By refunding interest where the balance exceeded £1,750, Vanquis arent benefitting  from 
the unfair increase to the credit limit. But Im not going to ask them  to refund interest on 
balances up to £1,750. Thats because I think it was reasonable for them  to put the limit up 
Ref: DRN70978392to £1,750 when they did. It follows that, if it was reasonable for Vanquis to extend  that credit  
to Miss L, it was fair for them to charge  interest on it.
Vanquis have also offered  to pay interest  on the sums they propose  to refund. I think thats  
fair. It recognises the fact that, by paying interest  on the higher balance, Miss L was deprived 
of money shed otherwise have had. So its right that they should not only refund that 
interest, but also compensate her (in the form of interest) for the time she was out of pocket 
because of it.
 
Miss L has said that, as a result of Vanquis  increasing her credit limit in 2014, she had a 
larger balance to deal with which has taken her longer to pay off. I understand her point of 
view, but I have to be impartial.  Miss L didnt have to accept Vanquis offers  to increase the 
credit limit. And shes had the benefit of the money the increased limits provided. 
So I think Vanquis offer is fair in the circumstances here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis  Bank Limited  should:
Refund to Miss L interest applied since 6 June  2014 on account  balances over 
£1,750;
refund  to Miss L the late payment charge of £12 which was applied  in October 2016;
pay to Miss L simple interest of 8% per year on the interest  and charges referred to 
above, from the date Miss L paid them to the date of repayment; and
reduce the credit  limit on Miss Ls account to £1,750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097839