K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  has turned down a life insurance claim 
following the death of her daughter  Miss G. 
Ms G is the eligible complainant but this complaint has been brought  by the late Miss Gs 
partner, Mr S. So for ease  Ill refer to him throughout. 
background
In July 2015 the late Miss G took out a life insurance  policy through an Independent 
Financial Advisor with Aviva which named her mother  as a trustee and Mr S as the 
beneficiary. 
Sadly in May 2016 Miss G died.  In early 2017 Mr S made a claim under the life insurance 
policy. In May 2017 Aviva  decided not to accept the claim. It said there was an exclusion in 
the policy which meant it couldnt pay a life insurance claim where death is caused by 
suicide within twelve months  of the policy  start date. 
Mr S was unhappy with this decision  so he made  a complaint. He felt Avivas exclusion had 
been put into the policy to stop consumers taking  out a policy  with the intention  of claiming 
for suicide  in the first twelve months. He said there  was no indication at the time of taking the 
policy that Miss G intended to take her own life. So, he didnt think  it was fair for Aviva  to 
apply the exclusion. Aviva reviewed the complaint but still decided not to accept the claim. It 
said the policy exclusion was clear and applied regardless of the applicants previous  
medical history. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said another insurance company had 
accepted a claim under another policy so Aviva  should do the same. And the intention  in 
taking out such  a policy was to protect  Miss Gs family  from unforeseen events. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint. But despite  his sympathy for Mr S, he felt Aviva hadnt 
done anything  wrong and had applied the terms and conditions  fairly.
Mr S remained unhappy  and felt Aviva  was treating him unfairly. He said Miss G started to 
feel low around February/March 2016 and quickly became depressed  before taking her life 
unexpectedly. Mr S added  Aviva  didnt contact him or Miss Gs doctor  to ask any questions 
about her medical  history. So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to pass on my condolences to Mr S and his family.  I was very sorry to read about the 
tragic circumstances of Miss Gs death.  I can only imagine  the past few years  mustve been 
incredibly difficult for him and his family.  
After carefully weighing up all the evidence presented by both sides,  Im afraid Im not 
upholding this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing news for Mr S. I want to 
assure him and Miss Gs family  that I didnt take this decision  lightly.  While I dont want  to 
add to his distress,  I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly  by turning down the claim. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN78268812I need to consider whether Aviva  has correctly considered this claim. And I believe it has. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and policy summary to see if this is a claim which 
Aviva should  accept. There is an exclusion which says any claims for death wont  be 
covered within  the first twelve  months  of the start of the policy  if it results  from suicide.  I note 
the death of Miss G was within the first twelve months since the inception of the policy.  And 
it isnt in dispute that Miss G died by suicide  in May 2016. So I can understand why Aviva 
didnt ask any further questions or for any other medical records  for Miss G in the 
circumstances. So Im satisfied Aviva has correctly declined the claim  in line with the policy.  
While this may seem insensitive,  or to Mr S that Aviva is looking for reasons to avoid the 
claim, Im satisfied the exclusion is clear. An insurer has a responsibility to all its 
policyholders to ensure they are treated the same. It does this by reviewing claims in line 
with the terms and conditions and making sure it only pays out on valid claims.
I understand the points being raised  here about  Miss G becoming  depressed  quickly  and 
unexpectedly which Mr S says an insurance  policy should cover. But its also the case that 
not every  insurance  policy will cover every eventuality. And putting limitations within  a policy 
isnt unfair  or unreasonable as long as they are clear. Its up to Aviva what eventualities it 
wants to cover. And I agree with the investigator  that Aviva  is applying the policy  terms in 
line with how they are intended  to work  here. As a result, I cant  say it has treated Mr S 
unfairly. 
I note a different  insurer has paid out on another policy  Miss G took out. However,  I can only 
consider what actions Aviva has taken  in relation to its policy. So Im not going to comment 
any further on that here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826881