K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1993  at a meeting at the same  time as taking a mortgage.  He was 
employed at the time as a technician and had been  there two years.  From what hes told us, 
he was entitled  to less than six but at least three months full sick pay and redundancy pay 
and didnt have  any other means  with which to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work.
Mr B has told us of a health issue with which he missed two weeks  work  around 25 years  
before the sale. Hes also told us of a health issue he had around 15 years before the sale 
which, from what hes told us, didnt keep  him off work and he took medicine for but didnt 
see a doctor  for. Mr B hasnt told us of having any other or more  recent  health  issues  or of 
having any longer or more recent health-related  work  absences  before the time of the sale. 
Santander says its records  show Mr Bs policy initially cost £20.85 a month  and it has sent 
a policy  leaflet which shows this sum would buy a monthly benefit of £300.  According to this 
leaflet, subject to the policy exclusions and limitations, the benefit would be paid to help Mr B 
with mortgage  costs if he made a successful accident, sickness  or unemployment claim.
Based on what the parties have provided,  Ive nothing to show  that a Santander mortgage 
Mr B mightve taken the policy  out for was still running in April 2008. Santander says it has 
no record of a mortgage for Mr B and doesnt believe he had a mortgage with it that was 
running between  31 October 2004 and 6 April 2008. Mr B hasnt  said or given us anything  to 
make me think anything different.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Bs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Bs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told Mr B 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN73262272The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was likely either  with Santander and concluded before April 2008 
or with a third party and not Santander. That means  the unfair relationship provisions  set out 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN73262273The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN73262274did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Santander  hasnt been able to provide 
paperwork from Mr Bs sale to show  how a choice was given in Mr Bs case  - or paperwork 
from the time to show how the PPI was supposed  to be presented. But given  the time thats 
passed since the sale, it isnt surprising Santander cant  provide paperwork from the time.
Mr B has said he had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included as part of his 
mortgage package. I give Mr Bs recollections  some weight. But I also bear in mind more  
than 20 years had passed  since the sale when Mr B set out those recollections  for us - so I 
wouldnt expect Mr B to vividly  recall all the details of the sale.  
With all this in mind, on balance Mr Bs recollection arent, on their own,  enough to persuade 
me Santander didnt  give him a choice about the PPI. And I havent anything  else to make  
me think Mr B wasnt given a choice.  For example, Ive nothing to make  me think  Santander 
wouldnt normally have given customers like Mr B a choice about the PPI. 
With everything Ive said above  in mind, on balance, and while  theres not much to go on, 
what I have doesnt  persuade me Santander didnt give Mr B a choice about taking the PPI. 
Also, looking  at everything Mr B has told us about  the sale, Ive nothing  to suggest 
Santander pressured him into the PPI. So, taking everything  into account, I think  its more 
likely Mr B knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure  but it 
would be understandable  if he didnt  recall this now.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice during this sale. Mr B hasnt disagreed. Also,  if Santander 
did provide advice it had to do more.  With all this in mind, Im persuaded its fair to proceed 
on the basis that Santander  provided  advice. This means it had to advise  Mr B with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. There are no papers available from the sale, no record of what 
Santander discussed in relation to the policy and no evidence to show what steps it took to 
establish whether  Mr B would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the PPI didnt fully meet his needs. For example, theres nothing to 
suggest Santander considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, what  I have  doesnt persuade me, on the balance of probabilities,  that Santander did 
all it should have done to determine whether  the policy was suitable for Mr B given his 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration that, given the likely policy terms:
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely hed suffer  a loss of income if sickness or 
unemployment stopped him working  for a prolonged period  even allowing for the work 
benefits hed have been entitled  to. The PPI benefit wouldve helped  him manage the 
Ref: DRN73262275consequences and, by helping him cover mortgage related costs, helped  protect  his 
home at what could be a difficult time if Mr B were  unemployed or too sick work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. The policy wouldve  excluded certain  claims for work absences related to Mr Bs 
past health issues. Ive considered all he has told us about those issues,  including how 
long before the sale they occurred and the extent  to which  theyd affected his ability  to 
work. With all this in mind, I dont think Santander ought  to have considered Mr B 
missing work in future  due to those  past issues was a significant prospect - or that his 
not being able to claim for such absences made the cover unsuitable. I say this bearing 
in mind the situations Mr B would still be covered for. Also, from what  Ive seen,  there 
were no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the monthly  cost appears to have been 
affordable for him.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim for 
unemployment and 36 months for disability  and up to the first 12 weeks of any 
unemployment or disability wouldnt be covered. But the policy  still provided  useful  cover  
given Mr Bs circumstances,  the loss of income he could suffer were he unable to work  
for a prolonged period and the role his sick pay and redundancy pay could play in giving 
an income during  the 12-week qualification period. Also, I bear in mind the policy  helped  
protect the mortgage payments on Mr Bs home  and the potential  consequences were he 
to have become  unable  to make payments on loans secured against his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice or offering him the PPI, Santander gave 
Mr B sufficient information about the cover to enable him to understand what  Santander was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would help cover his mortgage related  costs  were 
he unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve taken the PPI 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr B all the information  he 
needed about the PPI to make an informed  decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ref: DRN73262276Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Bs representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr B has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Santander ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr B? To what extent did he suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy,  had Santander done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr B, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that whether or not Mr B has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had 
explained things  properly, Mr B would have  acted differently or whether he would have taken 
the policy in any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN73262277The evidence in this case suggests Mr B had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Santander offered him the PPI or advised him there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would help protect  his mortgage payments if he were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted  it. 
But he made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of sale that the policy  was not fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for him. Also I consider it 
more likely than not he knew he would have to pay something for it. But Ive nothing to show 
Santander told him the exact premium when  he applied. That said,  I dont think it likely Mr B 
wouldve taken the PPI without an idea of the approximate cost  and also if when he started 
to pay it the cost had been significantly different, he mightve raised this with Santander at 
the time or reconsidered his decision rather than paying it for a number  of years like he did.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B wouldve found the cost unacceptable if he had been given 
the exact figure during  the meeting in which he agreed to the cover.  
In addition, Ive seen nothing to show that Santander made clear what  Mr B would get if he 
made a successful claim. But Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest he had expectations  
about the monthly benefit amount that were  significantly different to the actual policy benefit. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy would exclude  certain claims relating to pre-existing or past health  issues  
Mr B knew  or ought to have known about at the policy start; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr B wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The policy would help protect  mortgage payments for up to 12 months for unemployment 
and 36 months for disability, rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to Mr B should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The policy wouldve excluded certain claims for work 
absences related to Mr Bs past health  issues. But all hes told us about  those,  including  how 
long before the sale they were and how long theyd affected his ability to work for, makes  me 
think it unlikely Mr B wouldve thought himself  at risk in future  of lengthy work absences  
related to those  past health  issues. 
So, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve been put off the PPI had he known more about its 
exclusions for existing  or past health  issues. And I havent seen anything to suggest  he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions   he was in permanent  
employment, for example. So, with all Ive said above in mind and given the cover the policy 
offered, I think Mr B still had some good reasons to take it.
Ref: DRN73262278Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy excluded back or mental  health  conditions or placed  
any additional restrictions or more onerous  evidential requirements in the event of a claim on 
those grounds than wouldve applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr B wouldve  expected to make  a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  Also, Ive seen nothing persuasive to suggest that to make a 
claim for disability Mr B needed to be anything other than unable  to do his normal job.
Santander may not have told Mr B that any claim he made  would be limited to 12 months for 
unemployment and 36 months for disability. And it may not have  told him the first 12 weeks 
of any unemployment  or disability  wouldnt be covered.  All this may have differed from what  
Mr B expected and mightve hoped for. But even 12 months was a longer than he wouldve  
received full sick pay - and his redundancy entitlement was also worth  significantly less than 
12 months pay.
In those circumstances, given also that he had work  benefits worth at least  three months 
pay, I consider  it likely Mr B wouldve still thought a policy  that after around three months  
would pay up to 12 monthly payments for unemployment - or 36 for disability - would benefit 
him and help him manage if he were  unable to work in the circumstances the policy  covered.  
The policy benefit  could  help reduce his outgoings  and help reduce the likelihood of his 
home being placed at risk if he lost his job or became  too sick to work.
 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr B would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him 
manage the consequences  if he were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr B would have  taken 
the policy in any event, notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN73262279Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible  Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
PPI, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Santander  should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr B thinks  Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr B, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1993 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr B and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7326227