K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) wont pay the full value of a claim he 
made when  his wife lost the diamond  from her engagement ring.
background
Mr M bought  a home insurance policy online through an intermediary. HDI didnt actually sell 
Mr M the policy,  but it is responsible meeting any claims made  on the policy.  For ease of 
reading Ill only refer to HDI from now on.
Mr M wanted cover for an expensive ring, and he listed this as a wedding  ring, worth  £5,000.  
Mr M accepted the premium quoted  for the policy, which included this ring as a listed item.
A few months after buying the policy Mrs M lost the diamond from her engagement  ring. Mr 
M contacted HDI, which agreed to consider his claim.
A specialist  valuer  was appointed to look at the claim. It said a replacement  diamond would 
cost just under £5,000, and that that the ring itself showed the sort of damage caused 
accidentally.
HDI said it would meet the claim.  But it limited the amount it paid out to £1,500.  It said that 
was because Mr M described the ring he wanted  insured  as a wedding  ring  but his wife 
had lost her engagement ring. So it would  only pay the claim up to the limit for unspecified 
items  which was £1,500.
Mr M thought that was unfair and complained, explaining he must have mistakenly  described  
the ring as a wedding  ring, although  he didnt remember doing  this. HDI wouldnt increase 
the payment so Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think HDI had acted fairly.  She said that most wedding rings  are worth 
a few hundred  pounds, whilst engagement rings frequently cost a lot more.  She didnt think 
Mr M should be penalised for describing  the ring incorrectly, and that HDI should pay Mr Ms 
claim up to the limit for the specified  item.
HDI didnt respond  to our investigators view about  what should happen, so Ive been asked 
to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M told us he doesnt recall describing  the ring as a wedding  ring. He says his wifes  
wedding ring is worth a few hundred pounds at most  and hed never have insured it for 
£5,000. Mr M also told us he never received  the policy documents when he first bought  the 
insurance  if he had hed have corrected  the mistake hed made  when he checked them.
I can see he asked about these  but that was after hed made the claim for the lost ring. 
HDI said it had sent them by email originally but supplied duplicates.
Ref: DRN71705722I dont know whether HDI sent the paperwork or not  it was by email, and its entirely 
possible they ended up in Mr Ms junk mail or werent attached to the confirmation email he 
did receive. But I dont  think whether Mr M got the paperwork when he first bought the policy  
stops me from reaching a fair decision.
I say that because:
Theres been no suggestion that Mr M didnt own an expensive  ring worth about  
£5,000. Hes provided proof of ownership  from 2014, and a certificate for the lost 
diamond.
The specialist that looked at the ring was satisfied it was damaged  accidentally.
HDI hasnt said the premium it charged  would have  changed if Mr M had been able 
to exchange the word  wedding for engagement as a description of the ring.
Im satisfied Mr M intended to insure an expensive ring and HDI was willing  to accept the risk 
in return for a premium.  So the only issue is the word used to describe  the ring, rather  than 
that Mr M might be claiming  for something he doesnt own.  I dont think thats a fair reason 
for HDI to limit the payment it makes to that for an unspecified item. 
It follows that Im going to uphold this complaint, and order HDI to meet Mr Ms claim up to 
the amount showed for the specified  item - £5,000. 
There are normally several ways in which an insurer can settle a claim like this. HDI might 
offer to repair the ring (by replacing the diamond etc) or give Mr M a cash settlement, up to 
the limit on his policy. It appears HDI has already  paid Mr M £1,500. If Mr M opts for the rest 
of the claim to be paid as a cash settlement rather than repair, then I think  it fair for HDI to 
compensate Mr M for the delay by adding interest  to any unpaid  amount as described below.
If Mr M wants HDI to arrange the repair then he will need to return any part payment he 
might have received.
Ref: DRN71705723my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. HDI Global Specialty SE must:
meet Mr Ms claim, subject to any relevant terms and conditions in his policy. 
If HDI pays a cash  settlement it must add interest to this payment. Interest* should be 
added at 8% simple per annum from the date of the claim to the date of payment.  
HDI can deduct any previously paid amount from a cash  settlement before 
calculating interest.
Any cash  payment should be within 28 days of the date we tell HOI Mr M has 
accepted this decision.
*HMRC may require HDI to deduct  tax from this amount before it pays Mr M. If it does so, 
HDI should give Mr M a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted  if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170572