K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with her boiler. She wants  compensation.
background
Mrs H had a home emergency policy with Amtrust, which  covered  her boiler and central 
heating. She said that Amtrust  failed to properly investigate and deal with an issue  with her 
boiler between  June 2018 and February 2019. Mrs H believed that this caused  her to be 
£400 in debt with her gas supplier as she said her boiler was switching itself on and using 
gas, and it didnt stop until an engineer replaced a faulty valve  on the third visit when he 
witnessed what was happening. Before this, Amtrust  had said the issue  was due to the 
temperature of the thermostat set by Mrs H.
Mrs H complained to Amtrust.  It said it had acted appropriately and in accordance with the 
policys terms and conditions, but didnt set out why it so believed.
Mrs H complained to us. Amtrust said that the fault was intermittent and its engineers had 
said that it was impossible to catch  unless present at the time the fault appeared. It also 
explained that the fault wasnt in the boiler,  but part of the heating system, and that Mrs H 
didnt mention the fault was continuing  until February 2019. 
The investigators view was that faults can be complex and difficult to diagnose, and a 
process of elimination  can be required to find the fault (which can mean  multiple visits). She 
noted that Mrs H didnt complain again  about the fault after June 2018 until February  2019,  
so Amtrust couldnt visit and fix the fault without knowing that it was still continuing in her 
view. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mrs H disagreed. She said Amtrust didnt believe the fault existed and failed to fix it until the 
third visit. Mrs H also said that it didnt matter how long shed waited to contact  Amtrust.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs policy covers repairs to her boiler,  controls and full central heating  system,  so the 
work required fell within  the terms and conditions  of the policy.  The issue really is whether 
Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably  in dealing with the fault.  Mrs H feels that its engineers 
shouldve stayed longer and inspected  the boiler and system in a more in-depth  manner;  
Amtrust says that unless  its engineers  were  present when the fault happened (which couldnt 
be predicted), there was nothing  it could do and Mrs H didnt tell it that the fault was 
continuing.
I think that Amtrust couldnt  fix a fault that it didnt know was continuing. On the first visit in 
June 2018 to look at the issue,  the engineer didnt witness  the fault happening and 
suggested that Mrs H reduced the temperature of her thermostat. This is part of the 
elimination process. Mrs H didnt tell Amtrust that the fault was continuing  until the following 
February. Amtrust  couldnt fix a continuing  fault that it didnt know  was continuing,  so I cant 
say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN78751552my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision before 1 
September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875155