K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about he service he received from Instant Cash  Loans Limited (trading as 
Moneyshop) when he tried to redeem two items.
background
In February 2018  Mr Y took two items  into a London store of Moneyshop. The agreements  
were for seven months  which meant  the items were due for redemption in mid September.
In October  Mr Y contacted the branch  to say hed like to settle the agreement in his local 
store and collect the items from there the following week. He said hed been ill and wasnt  
able to travel  to London. The store however said it couldnt move items from one store to 
another so hed need to come to London which he agreed to do. Moneyshop confirmed that 
the price for redemption  that day (15 October) was £593.33 but that interest  was added 
daily.
Mr Ys unhappy that when  he went to collect the items on 17 October the amount  to settle 
had gone up to £626.19. He says this was more  than hed been  told and he didnt have  
enough money to pay the extra. He thinks its unfair.
Moneyshop said it had explained in the call on the 15th that the figure  quoted was only valid 
for that day as it was calculated on a daily basis. Mr Y didnt go in until 2 days later so there 
was additional  interest to be paid but this was in line with the agreement  hed signed  so it 
didnt agree it was unfair. It noted  that the redemption date had in fact been mid-September 
and under the agreement it was now free to sell the goods if they werent redeemed. But it 
offered to freeze  the interest from 17 October to 7 December to allow  Mr Y time to collect his 
items. After that however  the items  would  be sold in line with the agreement.
Our investigator felt Moneyshop had dealt with this complaint fairly so she wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything  more. The credit agreements signed by Mr Y included  the clause 
Interest is calculated and applied daily to the amount of credit  outstanding and explained  
what the daily amount  would  be. It went on to explain the interest  on late payments as 
follows: If you do not return the Property on expiry of the duration of this agreement we will 
charge you interest  at the interest rate above until the amount due under this agreement is 
discharged in full, either by passing  of the Property  in pawn, its sale or redemption.  She felt 
this explained  Mr Y would need to pay extra interest  if he didnt redeem on time.
Shed also listened to the calls between Mr Y and Moneyshop, which  supported 
Moneyshops explanation  regarding the amount Mr Y would need to redeem his items. And 
although Moneyshop said it couldnt move the items  from one store to another for security 
reasons, it had offered to extend  the time for collection  to 7 December  at no extra cost to 
allow Mr Y the chance to make other arrangements.  She felt this was fair.
Shed taken into account Mr Y had been  unwell. And his frustration at the problems he was 
having in redeeming his goods.  But Moneybox  had acted in line with the terms of the 
agreement. It had also made a number of offers to Mr Y to help him collect  his items.  For 
that reason she couldnt agree it had done anything  wrong or acted unfairly.
Mr Y didnt agree and he was unhappy  that in the interim,  Moneyshop  had sold one of his 
items for less than he believed it was worth. He asked for it to be referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN72501772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont agree Money shop 
has done anything  wrong so I wont  be asking  it to do anything more  as Ill now explain.
Mr Y pledged two items in store in February 2018  using fixed  term agreements with Money  
shop. Ive reviewed the agreements  signed  by Mr Y and can see they set out the amount of 
credit, the rate of interest, the date for repayment  and the amount of daily and monthly 
interest that will be payable in the event  of late payment. The agreement also went  on to 
explain that in the event  of late payment, extra  interest would be added  from the agreed 
repayment date to the actual date of repayment.  Taking this into account I think the 
information provided was reasonable. And Ive also seen Mr Y says hed used Moneyshop 
for many years so I think it fair to believe  he understood the process
Ive also listened  to the calls between Moneyshop and Mr Y where the specific amount of 
interest for these items was discussed.  Ive heard Money shop say that interest  was added 
daily and that the figure  of £593.33  was only valid for that day. Mr Y didnt  go to the store 
that day with the result  there was extra interest to pay but that was in line with what  hed 
been told so I cant agree Moneyshop acted  unfairly.
And Ive seen Money shop then agreed  to hold the items until 7 December at no extra cost. 
This seems to me to have  been  a reasonable offer that gave Mr Y time to either collect  the 
items himself or make other arrangements.  And while Moneyshop  went  on to say that after 
the 7 December the items could be sold, this was always a possibility and set out in the 
agreement so again I dont consider this to be unfair.
Ive seen Mr Y pledged the items  in London but wanted to pay and collect  in his local store, 
some distance away. Moneyshop has explained why it wouldnt usually do this but Ive also 
seen that on 7 December it offered to make  this arrangement provided Mr Y paid the full 
redemption amount in store on that date. He didnt do so and the items werent redeemed  
but I dont consider Moneyshop is responsible for this.
Since Mr Y came to us, the two items  have  been sold by Moneyshop.  Ive seen Mr Y feels 
this is unfair  and that the price achieved  is less than the items were  worth.  However 
Moneyshop has provided information to show that gold items are assessed on the value of 
the gold and the weight.  And because the value of gold can go up and down  the rates are 
adjusted daily. Its not for me to say whether  this was the best price Mr Y could have got for 
these items  if theyd been sold elsewhere but I can see that the price  achieved was in line 
with its published  rates at the time. On that basis I cant reasonably say Moneyshop has 
made a mistake with the valuation. 
I appreciate that this had been a difficult time for Mr Y. Ive taken all this into account but, for 
the reasons given, I cant agree Money shop has made a mistake  or acted unfairly. It 
calculated the interest  in line with the agreement and also made  a number of offers to 
resolve the dispute. I know Mr Y feels it shouldnt have sold the items but as the items 
werent redeemed  either  by the date in the agreements or by the 7 December, then its 
entitled to do so and I cant say thats unfair. 
I realise Mr Y will be disappointed by my decision but in the circumstances I wont be asking 
Moneyshop to do anything more.
Ref: DRN72501773my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7250177