K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that NewDay Cards Ltd, or Aqua  as theyre  also known, didnt allow  
her request  for a permanent chargeback of around  £150 to her credit card.  
background
Miss M bought goods via eBay and paid for them via PayPal through her Aqua credit  card.  
When Miss M received  the goods, she concluded  they werent genuine. She tried 
unsuccessfully to obtain a refund via eBay and PayPal. She then tried via Aqua.
Miss M made a chargeback request to Aqua.  Aqua re-credited the sum but then re-debited  
the account when Miss M failed to reply  to a letter of theirs within the set time-limit. 
Miss M is unhappy that Aqua  re-debited her account. She says this also caused her to incur 
unnecessary charges  and interest.
Miss Ms main point  is that eBay  told her to destroy the goods in order to obtain  a refund. 
She doesnt blame eBay for her not receiving a refund. She says its PayPal and Aqua who 
havent helped  her as they should.
Aquas final response  to Miss Ms complaint said theyd turned down her chargeback  request 
because Miss M hadnt returned the goods  to the seller. In fact, the immediate reason Aqua 
had turned down  Miss Ms request was that she hadnt replied to their letter asking  her to 
provide more information to support her claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint. She described what the evidence 
indicated had happened, including  the letters Aqua sent to Miss M and their content. And 
she concluded Aqua  had acted within their rights to reverse the re-credit and not agree to 
the chargeback,  because  Miss M didnt respond  within the required time-limit to Aquas letter 
asking for more information.  
Although the point  hadnt specifically come  up, the investigator also mentioned she thought a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act wouldnt be successful.  
Miss M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I too 
have concluded  her complaint doesnt  succeed.  My reasons are basically the same  as the 
investigator gave. 
I can understand Miss Ms feeling  that she should be able to get her money  back from 
someone. The only question Im allowed  to deal with, however,  is whether  Aqua has acted 
fairly towards her. Aqua isnt responsible for what eBay told Miss M to do or for what  PayPal 
has done.
To be clear, Aqua isnt obliged to refund  Miss M just because she did what eBay told her to 
do.
Ref: DRN79700892The chargeback scheme  has its own rules  that parties have to keep to. The seller 
challenged the chargeback and Aqua wrote to Miss M asking  her for more information.  The 
letter referred to strict  time limits and asked  Miss M to reply  within  14 days;  if she didnt, 
Aqua would assume she no longer  wished  to proceed with her chargeback request and 
would re-debit the account. Miss M didnt reply,  and Aqua re-debited the account. 
I have to say that Miss Ms chargeback request was likely to have  failed in any case, as its a 
condition that the goods have to be returned to the seller, and Miss M couldnt do this 
because shed destroyed them in the light of what eBay told her to do. 
So, while I sympathise with Miss M and she must naturally be feeling  shes  out of pocket 
through no fault of her own, I dont think Aqua is or was obliged to agree to her chargeback 
request. Aqua received  her request and took it forward, but they werent obliged to go further 
with it when Miss M failed  to reply to their request for more  information. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7970089