K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has delayed  dealing with two claims under 
a home  insurance  policy.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision dated 8 April 2019  as 
follows:
Ms L has contacted  U K Insurance Limited  about two potential  claims; one for storm related 
damage from 2008; and more recently  subsidence. For the storm claim UKI sent Ms L a final 
response letter on 6 April 2018. In it UKI explained  that it was unable  to progress the claim 
without phone contact,  which  Ms L refused to have.  UKI told Ms L that she could appoint  a 
representative to deal with the matter on her behalf  but she didnt facilitate this either. UKI 
said Ms L hadnt sent a cause of damage  report either and so in all the circumstances UKI 
couldnt progress  her claim. UKI explained  to Ms L that she had six months to make  her 
complaint to us.
Ms L also sent a letter stating she had given notice of a potential  subsidence  claim in 2015 
and asked that this was dealt with. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but didnt think UKI had acted unfairly.  He 
explained that UKI hadnt in fact declined Ms Ls claim  but werent able to investigate the 
claim without  Ms Ls engagement.  UKI had tried to engage with Ms L on the telephone but 
she had refused this. And UKI had offered to deal with a representative  on her behalf.  
UKI uses a loss adjuster and that firm needed  to be able to speak with Ms L or someone  on 
her behalf  to arrange mutually agreeable times to visit the property. There was no reason  
that Ms L had anyone  aware of as to why speaking on the telephone was an issue other  
than she didnt think this would mean  there was a record of what was said. The investigator 
didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
The investigator noted that the storm damage  issue had been addressed originally by UKI in 
a final response dated  February 2014.  But there was a further related complaint made and in 
April 2018 UKI issued another final response  to Ms L. He said Ms L didnt complain to us 
until November 2018 and he thought this meant  we couldnt look at the complaint about 
storm.
I gave reasons in the provisional  decision stating  why I wasnt minded to uphold Ms Ls 
complaint:
UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. I think what prompt  means  will depend 
on the circumstances of the claim and how detailed, for example, an investigation 
reasonably needs to be and the engagement  from the parties involved. Handling a claim 
fairly I think  includes UKI engaging with Ms L and enabling her to provide the information she 
needs to, making  arrangements for damage  to be inspected  and giving reasonable guidance 
to make her claim and rectify damage  where appropriate.
The main  issue with this complaint  is that UKI has not been  able to establish meaningful 
contact with Ms L. The claim process  is necessarily a two-way process and requires 
meaningful contact between Ms L and UKI. While  I appreciate Ms L wants a record  of all her 
Ref: DRN76681712contacts with UKI telephone calls are routinely recorded by businesses and that would mean  
a record is available. 
There is nothing made available to suggest  that Ms L is in such  a position that she has 
anything that might require UKI to think about  reasonable adjustments in the way it 
communicates with her. But it has nonetheless  said it would deal with a representative on 
her behalf  to move things  forward.  Ms L could provide details of a relative or friend for 
example but that hasnt been  the case. And Ms L set up her complaint with us by telephone  
so Im not aware  of any reasonable impediment that means UKI can provide a different 
means of inspecting, assessing and remediating any insured damage. It has provided a 
direct contact number for its loss adjuster to Ms L and shes  able to use a phone.
The investigator said the storm complaint wasnt something we could assist  with given the 
complaint came to us in November 2018.  That isnt the case though  as Ms L contacted us in 
September and we let UKI know about the issue then. The relevance of the time period in 
this case is that unless exceptional  circumstances  exist we cant  look at a complaint brought 
to us more than six months  after a firms final response letter. 
While UKI issued a final response  in 2014 further  issues arose and Ms L made a new 
complaint which  UKI dealt  with as such, and issued a final response in April 2018. So by 
Ms L contacting us in September 2018  shes within the six months. So Im satisfied we are 
able to look at the storm matter. 
Taking everything into account  though  Im not persuaded that UKI has treated Ms L unfairly.  
It has offered assistance and ways forward on a number of occasions; it has provided a 
contact point and contact details; it has expressed its wish to assess the claim and repair  
any insured damage. But UKI cannot do that without  meaningful and practical  contact with 
Ms L. If she doesnt feel able to manage that on her own UKI is willing to deal with a 
representative of her choosing (such  as a friend or family member).  
replies to provisional decision
UKI said that it had nothing further  to add. Ms L replied as follows;
I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his decision:
1.Confirming that UKI, has expressed  its wish to assess the claim and repair any 
insured damage  for both the storm and subsidence claims.
2.Confirming that, UKI is willing to deal with my identified representative to settle both 
the storm damage and subsidence  claims  promptly,  fairly  and without  further 
delays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at everything again and taking into account the replies to my provisional 
decision Im not reaching a different  outcome. Im not persuaded that UKI treated Ms L 
unfairly;
it offered assistance and ways forward on a number of occasions;
it provided a contact point and contact details; 
it expressed its wish to assess the claim and repair  any insured damage.  
Ref: DRN76681713As said in my provisional decision, UKI cannot assess the claim(s) and carry out repairs  to 
insured damage  without  meaningful and practical  contact with Ms L. It seems to be from 
Ms Ls reply that she understands  this and so the onus lies with her to give details of her 
representative to UKI for things to move forward.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7668171