K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr Y complain  about Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) concerning  the time taken 
and process errors in the release of their savings bond. They  want  Al Rayan to accept its 
errors and apologise. 
background 
Mrs and Mr Y held a fixed rate savings bond with Al Rayan. This bond  was for a sizeable 
amount and it matured  on 15 January 2018. 
In previous correspondence, Al Rayan had explained  that Mrs and Mr Y did not need to do 
anything in preparation for the bond maturing,  and that it would be transferred to their 
designated account, with a third party bank, S. Mrs and Mr Y therefore  expected  the money 
to be transferred to S on 15 January 2018. 
Al Rayan  is not a clearing bank so it used  an intermediary  bank,  L to make  the payment to S. 
On 15 January 2018 Al Rayan transferred the funs to L, for onward payment to S. 
Mrs and Mr Y noticed that the funds had not been received so contacted Al Rayan on 16 
January to ask where the funds were. They were told that the funds had been sent to a 
clearing bank. 
On 17 January L sent a message to Al Rayan, requesting more information on the 
transaction for its security processes. 
Al Rayan  responded on the same  day providing  the requested information. L then 
transferred the money onwards to S. 
On 18 January, S sent a similar query for information to L, to pass  onto Al Rayan. This 
request set out that it required the information within 3 working days or it would return  the 
payment. 
L forwarded this request on to Al Rayan on 23 January. 
Al Rayan  then responded with the information  on 24 January, after the 3 working days set by 
S had elapsed. 
As S had not received the information in time, it returned the payment. The payment was 
sent via L and arrived  with Al Rayan on 29 January 2018. 
Throughout this time Mrs and Mr Y had been in regular contact with Al Rayan,  concerned 
about where their funds  were. 
On 30 January, Al Rayan advised  Mrs and Mr Y that the funds had been returned and said 
that it would  be unable to send the funds electronically again. It offered to send Mrs and Mr 
Y a cheque instead. 
Mrs and Mr Y replied  rejecting the cheque and asking that the funds be sent electronically 
direct to S. 
Ref: DRN76185572This was done on 31 January 2018. 
Mrs and Mr Y submitted a complaint to Al Rayan and received its final response on 31 
January 2018.  That response rejected that there had been  any bank error and did not 
uphold Mrs and Mr Ys complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Y were  not happy  with that view and came to us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that whilst it appeared that the main delays in this transaction  were caused  by L, Al 
Rayan was responsible for L, since L was acting as Al Rayans agent. The adjudicator  
therefore recommended that the business  pay compensation to Mrs and Mr Y for their lost 
interest, and for distress and inconvenience  of being without their money for two weeks. 
The business accepted this recommendation and offered Mrs and Mr Y £336.68 to reflect 
£136.68 interest and £200  compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs and Mr Y were  not happy  with this and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  They  did not 
feel that L was responsible and want Al Rayan to admit their mistakes.  They  felt that the 
communication between  the different businesses was poor and that Al Rayan had not 
prioritised the transaction  despite  their regular contact. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I very much understand Mrs and Mr Ys worry and distress  over this time.  They had a 
substantial amount of savings and to be uncertain  of its whereabouts or to think it may have 
been lost would have been  very distressing indeed. I can see that Mrs and Mr Y were  in 
regular contact with Al Rayan over this time and I think this demonstrates how worried  they 
were. 
I have looked  at the evidence of the messages that were passed between  the businesses,  
and at the messages that were sent to Mrs and Mr Y. 
Unhelpfully, the SWIFT  messages that were sent between the businesses do not contain  
clear dates, although I can see when the messages from Al Rayan were sent. This means 
that when one of the message was transferred on to another bank it may not be apparent  to 
the receiver when  it was originally sent. 
It is accepted that there was a delay  in L forwarding on the request for information to Al 
Rayan, and that this message was not relayed until 23 January. As the date is not clear on 
the request,  I do not think Al Rayan would have known that the 3 working days had already 
elapsed and that the request was by that time urgent. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr Y are not satisfied that Al Rayan responded on 24 January but I 
have seen evidence  to support that they did. Since  this was only the day after receiving the 
request, and it not being evident that the request  was by this time urgent, I do not think  this 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN76185573I agree  with the adjudicators view that the main delays  in this matter  were caused by L not 
passing messages  on sufficiently  quickly, and that this this led to the payment being  returned 
and further delayed. As L was acting as Al Rayans agent, I agree that Al Rayan  is 
responsible for the actions of L. 
Mrs and Mr Y are also concerned about the communication  they received from Al Rayan. 
They think  they were  lied to about  where their money was and that they were not prioritised. 
I have reviewed the evidence of communications and have  not seen any evidence of Al 
Rayan misrepresenting the situation  to Mrs and Mr Y. I think the communication between Al 
Rayan and L, and S (where  appropriate)  was not effective and this contributed  to the delay 
(including the funds  being  returned  by S), but I think all communication was done in good 
faith. 
Overall I think  that Al Rayan is responsible  for the failings of its agent,  and that its 
communication with its agents was inadequate  in this case. I agree with the adjudicators 
view that this led to a delay for Mrs and Mr Y, and caused them substantial worry and 
inconvenience. 
Al Rayan  has offered  to pay Mrs and Mr Y for the lost interest (at the same rate as its bond) 
for the period, and I think  this is fair. 
Al Rayan  has also offered  Mrs and Mr Y £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
I note that Mrs Y does  not think this reflects the time she has spent on the matter and the 
work she says she has lost, but I am satisfied that this amount is in line with awards  we 
would make in similar  circumstances.
Whilst I realise this will be disappointing  to Mrs and Mr Y, I think  that Al Rayan has acted 
appropriately in making this offer and I do not ask for it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ys complaint, but think  that Al Rayan 
bank PLC has made an appropriate  offer to address this. I therefore do not ask it do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618557