K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Santander UK plc didnt  pay a cheque  drawn  on their account and 
was unable to give a clear explanation why this had happened when Mr J attended a branch.
background
Mr J says on 12 September 2018  at 10.10  he attended a Santander branch and transferred 
£350 from his savings account to his current account. At 16.48  that same  day he received a 
text message advising him that a cheque  had not been paid as there were insufficient  funds 
in his account.
On Thursday 13 September 2018  he went to the branch to ascertain the reasons as he says 
there were sufficient funds in his account. But he wasnt  provided  with a clear  explanation. 
He says he was told when you issue a cheque you must have  funds in your account. He 
says he has never before  been told this stupid  explanation by incompetent  and rude 
members of staff at any bank.
Mr and Mrs J are particularly upset as the cheque was a payment on their mortgage  and 
their mortgage provider has marked a missed  payment on their credit file.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. After looking at their account 
statements he could see that when the cheque payment of £895 was attempted, there was 
only £799.78 in their account.  The £350 was transferred to the account on the same day 
however this was done after the cheque payment was attempted.  He noted the terms and 
conditions for the account advise that customers should make sure they have sufficient 
available funds in their account  when  the cheque is written. And there  would need to be 
enough funds  to pay the cheque when its presented  which  wasnt  the case on this 
occasion. Mr and Mrs J dont have  an overdraft facility on their account, so theyre only able 
to spend the funds they have available. The terms and conditions say that Santander can 
refuse any withdrawals or payments from the account if the consumer doesnt have enough 
available money  in their account. It also mentions that Santander can refuse  payments 
requested by using  their unarranged overdraft  service.  This means  that the only way of 
guaranteeing the payment  would  go through would be by ensuring there are enough funds 
when the cheque payment is paid. Since Mr and Mrs J didnt have enough  money in their 
account before the cheque was presented, he couldnt say that Santander have done 
anything wrong  in refusing the payment.
Regarding the service  Mr J received in branch he didnt feel there  was enough evidence for 
him to say that the member  of staff was rude. From what he could see about what  the 
member of staff said to Mr J, he couldnt  say that what they said was wrong   it appears they 
did give him the correct  information.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the adjudicators  view.  They think  his view is flawed. They say the 
facts are that Santander exceeded its standard banking procedures and operations of 
current accounts as it was negligent  in returning the cheque when there were sufficient funds 
in their account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74340602I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but the evidence Ive seen suggests that when  the 
cheque was presented for payment Santander  was entitled under the terms and conditions 
of the account  to refuse to make  the payment as they did not have enough available  money 
in their account. The mini statement they have  provided shows  the balance before the 
payment of the cheque was attempted was £799.78.  The cheque was for more than that, it 
was for £895. Although they did have sufficient money in their account later that day this was 
too late.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im not persuaded the Santander staff member  was rude 
although I can imagine  that learning the cheque hadnt been paid would have  been  
upsetting.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7434060