K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited said he had an outstanding 
balance and withheld his no claims discount  (NCD) after he cancelled  his motor insurance  
policy. 
background
Mr H bought a policy  through  One Call, a broker. A short while later One Call checked        
Mr Hs details against the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This is a shared  
database that records claims. One Call said CUE  showed Mr H had a previous claim he 
hadnt told it about when he bought his policy. Mr Hs insurer applied  an additional premium 
of £88.93 to his policy which included  a £39 administration charge. 
Mr H didnt think it was fair that he should pay this and said he hadnt had a previous  claim. 
So he asked One Call to cancel his policy. One Call said this left Mr H with a balance of 
£217.44. Mr H didnt  think he should  have to pay that and complained to One Call. 
One Call said it would  waive the £39 administration fee. It also said it would reduce the 
cancellation fee from £55.99 to £27.99 and pro rata the £85 fee hed been charged  for an 
additional product to £6.75. It said that meant  Mr H had an outstanding  balance of £72.20.
Mr H still thought this was too much and brought his complaint to us. He didnt think  he 
should have to pay anything as hed cancelled his policy. He also said One Call had withheld 
his NCD which meant  hed found it difficult to get new insurance. 
When we let One Call know  about Mr Hs complaint One Call said it would send him a copy  
of his NCD. Mr H also raised  concerns about One Call asking him to pay the outstanding 
balance when it said it had put it on hold while we looked into things.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 March  2019 where I explained why I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  In that decision I said:
In this decision I can only consider what One Call, as Mr Hs broker  might or might not have 
done wrong. Mr Hs complaint points about whether he should  have told One Call about a 
claim and any additional  premium it charged  would need to be directed towards the insurer.
This is because One Call was acting as the insurers agent  when carrying out these tasks.
That means Im only going to consider  whether One Call was right to ask Mr H to pay an 
outstanding balance and whether it withheld his NCD.
One Calls  £39 misrepresentation fee is set out in the our charges section of the policy.  But
One Call didnt ultimately amend Mr Hs policy  as he cancelled it. So I think  it was fair for it to 
waive that fee. The policy also says that Mr H will be charged £55.99  if he wants  to cancel 
his policy. I think its fair for One Call to charge a reasonable fee as it has to carry out the 
administrative task. As One Calls already reduced the fee set out in the policy to £27.99 Im 
not going to ask it to reduce it any further.
Mr H bought a non-refundable  add-on  to his policy which  cost £85. One Call said it would 
refund this on a pro rata basis  so Mr H was only paying for the time hed had the cover. This 
meant Mr H owed £6.75 for that policy. This seems a fair offer from One Call, however if
Mr H thinks hes paid too much for the time he was covered by that policy  hed need to take 
it up separately with the insurer  of that policy.
Ref: DRN70374562The remainder of the outstanding balance (£49.93)  is charged  by the insurer for the time
Mr H was covered by the policy.  As this was charged by the insurer  and not One Call I cant 
comment on whether or not it was fair for the insurer to charge it. If Mr H remains  unhappy  
about that cost hell need to complain about  it separately.
I understand Mr Hs unhappy  that One Call didnt provide him with a copy of his NCD after 
he cancelled  his policy. Mr H said he asked One Call for a copy and it refused to send it and 
provided a couple of phone numbers he might have called from.
I can see from One Calls search  records that its checked and cant  locate  a call from Mr H.
As Mr H hasnt  also been able to provide  anything  from his own records  to show he called,
Im not persuaded that he did.
I think it would have  been helpful for One Call to have sent Mr H a copy of his NCD earlier 
but it sent him a copy as soon as it became aware he wanted  it. And as Im not persuaded
Mr H asked for a copy at any other point Im not going to ask One Call to compensate  him 
for not doing  so.
Having taken everything into consideration, Im not going to interfere with One Calls 
decision to ask Mr H to pay his outstanding  balance.  I understand Mr H is unhappy that
One Call has contacted him to ask him to pay his outstanding balance while weve been 
looking into things. However I havent  made a finding on that as it didnt form the basis of
Mr Hs original complaint so would need to be dealt with separately. 
Mr H accepted my decision and One Call didnt add any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
As neither One Call nor Mr H provided  any further  comments I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. So Im not going  to interfere with One Calls decision to charge Mr H 
a cancellation  fee of £27.99 or to ask him for the £6.75 owed for the add-on policy he 
bought.
my final decision
I understand One Call Insurance  Services Limited  has offered to send Mr H a copy  of his 
NCD. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  So my final decision is 
that One Call Insurance Services Limited  should  send Mr H a copy  of his NCD if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70374563 
Ref: DRN7037456