K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  (Lloyds)  have handled
her claim for subsidence, under her buildings insurance policy.
At times during the complaint with Lloyds and with our service, Mrs P has been represented
by her son, Mr P. But for ease of reading  I will refer to Mrs P throughout this decision.
When I refer to Lloyds, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
background
In November 2013 Mrs P noticed cracks  around her house. She notified  Lloyds  and
submitted a claim.
Lloyds appointed an expert  to visit Mrs P. The visit took place in December 2013 and
investigations into the cause of the cracks began in January 2014. An arborist  was also
asked to attend Mrs Ps house in February  2014, as the house was surrounded  by
vegetation and large trees.
Subsidence was identified  as the cause of the cracks in March  2014, and it was felt that two
large trees at the rear of the house were responsible for this.
Investigations continued into the drainage at the house and monitoring of the house began 
in September  2014. A subsequent drain survey in October 2014 identified tree roots  in the
drains and the drains were unserviceable. It was agreed that the drains should be replaced.
While the monitoring was taking place, Lloyds were trying to contact Mrs Ps neighbour as
they felt the responsible trees were within the boundary of their property. An agreement
couldnt be reached so it was decided the best way forward was for Mrs P to arrange  for the
removal of the trees,  and Lloyds would reimburse  her for this. The trees were removed
between August 2015 and January 2016. Reimbursement was made  by Lloyds in April 2019,
including a payment of interest on that amount.
Lloyds also appointed another expert in February 2015 to manage  the claim.  He visited
Mrs P and oversaw the removal  of the trees. Following this, the expert was responsible for
arranging a Schedule of Works (SoW) to be completed for the required repairs  to the house.
It took some time for the SoW to be completed  but it was agreed in December 2016. The
SoW was put out to tender at this point.
Three tenders were received in early  January  2017. One was accepted and the works
agreed. The chosen contractors tender amount  was £52,820.  But before the work could
start, Lloyds  made the decision to change their approved expert. The new expert couldnt
agree to the SoW or the choice of contractor chosen  during the tender  process  and wanted
to re-visit Mrs Ps house to re-assess the damage  and complete their own SoW.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this and complained  to Lloyds. She wanted them to honour the
original SoW and agree for the original contractors  to carry out the work. If Lloyds werent
agreeing to that, then she wanted  the cash settlement for the original  tender,  along with
some associated costs for contingency and for the work to be overseen by a professional.
Mrs P was also unhappy with how long the claim was taking, and that the damage to her
windows wasnt being considered as part of the claim.
Ref: DRN72620052Lloyds didnt agree  with most of Mrs Ps complaint. They said that, as they were no longer
using the services of the original expert,  they wouldnt be asking them  or the chosen
contractors to carry out the work.  Lloyds reiterated that their new experts  use their own
contractors and any previous inspection reports would need to be reviewed. They wanted to
visit Mrs P and assess the damage, so that a new SoW could  be put together. Lloyds did
accept that they had caused some unnecessary delays to the claim and offered Mrs P a total
of £200 compensation.
Mrs P didnt accept Lloyds explanation so brought the complaint to our service. Our
investigator agreed that Lloyds had caused delays throughout the claim and increased the
compensation award to £500.  Lloyds  accepted  this, but Mrs P didnt. She said the complaint
had been with our service  for a long time and things had moved on. She provided a new
SoW by her own contractor, suggesting the repair costs were now in excess  of £100,000.
She wanted Lloyds  to accept this and cash settle  the claim on this basis.
Our investigator explained that he was only considering the complaint up until the final
response had been  issued by Lloyds in May 2018.  He also said that it was fair for Lloyds to
want to re-visit Mrs P and re-assess the work that needed  to be done.
As Mrs P didnt agree,  it was passed  to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 
23 December 2020. It said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to ask Lloyds to
do something more. Ill explain why.
Mrs P and Lloyds have sent in a lot of correspondence regarding this complaint. Id like to
assure them both that Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting on everything thats been
mentioned. Ill be concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
I accept that Lloyds decision to change their approved experts towards the end of Mrs Ps
claim will have  caused some  concern.  Even more so as it had taken some time to reach  a
stage where the repair works could be agreed, and a contractor chosen. But the decision
taken by Lloyds  to change is a commercial  one and isnt a decision I can look into.
Mrs P has said that Lloyds agreed  to accept the original  tender and SoW  even though  they
had changed their expert. She has provided an email she sent to Lloyds  confirming this
agreement, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest Lloyds accepted this. Indeed, Lloyds
have been rigid in their responses to Mrs P when discussing the original SoW and tender.
They have continued to explain that the original contractor isnt on their new experts
approved list and the tender wont be settled.  Lloyds have explained that they want  to re-visit
Mrs Ps house and undertake a new assessment of the damage. I think  its reasonable for
Lloyds to want to do this, considering the original  SoW was completed over three years ago.
Mrs P has explained that the situation has moved on considerably,  and the damage to the
house has worsened significantly.  She has provided  a new estimate  and SoW from her own
contractor suggesting  it will now cost in excess of £100,000 to repair the house  in its entirety.
And she would  like Lloyds  to offer her a cash settlement  to allow  her to get the work  done.
But I dont think its reasonable for Mrs P to expect Lloyds to agree to cash  settle the claim
now. The new SoW is more than double the original quoted in 2017. Lloyds havent said
theyre declining the claim or that more  damage  hasnt occurred - but I think  its reasonable
for them to want to re-assess the damage  using their own contractor so that a comparison
Ref: DRN72620053can be made.
The only way the claim can progress is if Mrs P allows Lloyds to arrange another visit and
complete a new SoW. It is only if this is allowed to happen that the claim can progress to a
resolution. And if Mrs P is unhappy with anything Lloyds tells her following the visit, including
the new SoW or any cash settlement offered,  she will be able to raise that with them as a
new complaint. But I dont think its reasonable for Mrs P to expect Lloyds to agree to her
contractors SoW and estimate  for repair, without  having  the opportunity to assess it for
themselves.
Mrs P has also mentioned that shes unhappy  that her windows  havent  been accepted as
part of the claim. Lloyds  have highlighted the report that states  the windows in question  are
over ten years old and do not appear  to have the correct support at the intersections, parts
of the window are mechanically jointed and not fusion welded. They are suggesting the
windows have moved because of poor design  and have declined to include them  in the
claim. I dont  agree  with this. The windows are situated at the rear of Mrs Ps house, where
its acknowledged the subsidence is at its worst.  And the report  concludes  by saying the bay
windows are out of level and square due to structural movement'. Im satisfied this shows  the 
subsidence is the reason why the windows have moved, rather  than their design. So, I think  
the windows should be included in any new SoW that is completed.
Its clear from looking at everything provided that Mrs Ps claim hasnt been without its
problems. Claims of this nature can take a while to put right,  and its only with the
cooperation of both parties that a fair resolution  can be found.  I dont think that cooperation
has been evident for the last couple  of years, and while the complaint has been  with our
service. Lloyds has accepted that it caused  delays during the monitoring and assessment of
the drains at Mrs Ps house. And that it didnt  always respond to correspondence  in a timely
way. There were also issues  when  drain repairs were supposed to be carried out, with wrong
equipment being brought and poor instruction being  given. Our investigator  has
recommended that Lloyds  pay Mrs P a total of £500  compensation for these delays - I see
no reason to depart from this. Im intending to ask Lloyds  to pay Mrs P a total of £500
compensation, taking  into account their previous offer of £200.
It is now for Mrs P to decide if she is willing to allow Lloyds to revisit  her house and try to
progress the claim  to a resolution. If she wants this to happen, she will need  to speak to
Lloyds about it and arrange  the appointment.
Both parties  responded to the provisional  decision. 
Mrs P accepted that the bay windows should  be included.  She also accepted  that a re-visit 
to the house was necessary by Lloyds. However, she said that an independent professional  
should be appointed to compile the new or updated SoW and oversee the repairs  work. She 
would like this cost to be included within the claim. 
Mrs P also explained  that shed  had to carry out some remedial work at the house  in 2019, 
and she wanted  those costs reimbursed. The amount she paid was approximately  £42,000. 
She also said that feels shes entitled to more compensation and suggested a figure  of 
£2,000.
Lloyds didnt accept  that the bay windows should be included  in any new or updated SoW. 
They said that the expert that sent the report on the windows in 2017  was a windows expert 
but wasnt a surveyor  or expert in the field of subsidence. And therefore,  wasnt qualified  to 
Ref: DRN72620054say the windows had moved  due to structural movement. Lloyds provided further comments 
from their expert to suggest  the windows moved because of poor design,  and the 
subsidence only exacerbated  this movement. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  Ill explain why.
Im pleased that Mrs P has agreed  to a re-visit by Lloyds. As I said in my provisional  
decision, this is the only way that the claim can be progressed. And, while  I accept her point  
that she feels the trust has disappeared  from the relationship between her and Lloyds, I dont 
think its fair for an independent expert  to be appointed and costs included in the claim at this 
stage. Lloyds appointed new experts in early 2017, and since  then they have been looking to 
re-visit Mrs P to re-assess the damage  and update the SoW that was originally completed in 
2017. I think its reasonable  that they are given the opportunity to do that now. 
Mrs P is welcome to appoint an independent  expert to help her with the claim and oversee 
any visits from Lloyds and their experts,  but I wont be asking Lloyds to include those costs  
in this decision. It is now for Mrs P and Lloyds to arrange a suitable  time for this visit to take 
place, taking account of the current restrictions.
I cant see that Mrs P has sent the information for the remedial work shes had completed to 
Lloyds to consider.  They  need to be given the opportunity to assess the work Mrs P has had 
done and provide their response to it. Mrs P can provide this information to Lloyds  when the 
re-visit takes place,  and it can be considered alongside the updated  SoW.  I wont  be 
commenting on the remedial work or costs  involved here. 
Similarly, Mrs P has asked for the compensation award to be increased. My provisional 
decision explains what compensation Im recommending, the reasons why and the timescale 
that I have  considered in my decision.  If Mrs P feels further delays have  been  caused since  
Lloyds issued their final response in May 2018,  then she will need to speak to Lloyds about 
this and allow them the opportunity to respond  before  our service can become involved. 
 
Lloyds have provided further information about  the windows, and the expert  that reported on 
them. I acknowledge their comments that the expert was only an expert in windows and 
wasnt qualified to make  a judgement that structural movement had caused the problem with 
them. And they have  provided further information from their subsidence experts to say that 
the windows have moved mainly because of their poor design.  
The original  report provided and the subsequent comments from Lloyds do confirm that the 
bay windows were  missing some of their relevant supports at their intersections, and this is 
part of the reason why the windows have  moved.  But I havent seen anything to persuade  
me that the windows wouldnt have moved if the correct supports had been  fitted.  I accept 
that the movement  seen  might be exaggerated because of the lack of support in key areas, 
but Im satisfied some structural  movement  would have been seen to the windows even if 
the correct supports had been  fitted. The windows are situated at the part of the house that 
has suffered the severest subsidence movement.  And any movement to the windows would 
have meant  they needed to be included in the SoW. 
Ref: DRN72620055Lloyds have argued that replacing the windows will be classed as betterment. The term 
betterment refers  to situations  where an insurer considers that repairing or replacing 
something will leave the customer better  off, which isnt the intention of the policy.  I accept 
that the new windows will be in a better condition  but Lloyds are expected to carry out a 
lasting and effective  repair, and for that to happen new windows must be fitted. There  isnt 
any alternative in this situation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
need to:
 Pay Mrs P a total of £500 compensation for the delays experienced in handling  her
  claim  up until May 2018;
 Include  the rear bay windows in any new SoW  completed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262005