K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr M complain about  how Legal & General  Insurance Limited handled  and 
settled a claim they made under  their home  insurance policy for water damage.
background
On 27 March 2018 Miss S and Mr M contacted Legal & General (L&G) to make a claim for 
water damage they said occurred following  a boiler leak and bad weather in early 
March 2018. 
Miss S and Mr M instructed a company, which Ill refer to as B, to repair  their boiler. B said 
the pressure release  valve on their boiler was blocked. It replaced  this valve  on around 
20 March 2018.  
Miss S and Mr M said when their boiler broke in the loft it caused water  to overflow 
continuously and exit their house  via an overflow pipe down the side of their house. 
At the time their boiler broke Miss S and Mr M say they experienced a period of bad 
weather, which  consisted of constant  heavy snow, rainfall and very low temperatures 
causing water that had leaked outside the house to freeze. When the ice thawed  they say 
the water  entered their extension  via the flat roof.
Miss S and Mr M sent L&G photographs which showed ice on the side of their house and 
extension and the damage  their property had sustained. They also provided L&G with a 
report theyd obtained from a builder who had inspected the damage. They told L&G they 
thought the damage had been  caused by water  leaking  from the boiler. 
L&G appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as C within  this decision, to determine  the cause 
of the damage. C said the damage had been caused by a defective roof felt upstand and 
defective mortar joints to the gable  wall. C said this was wear and tear which  had happened 
over a period  of time.  And it said water wouldnt have penetrated the roof if it had been 
maintained properly.
L&G told Miss S and Mr M wear  and tear wasnt covered by their policy and declined their 
claim on this basis. But they didnt agree with L&G. They said they had never had a leak 
prior or since the one theyd reported.  And they felt the weight of snow and the ice had 
caused the damage to their extension.
Miss S and Mr M say L&G told them  it would  cover the cost of repairing the damage if they 
could provide proof from B that it had repaired their boiler. They  provided a letter  from B to 
L&G. But when L&G showed this letter to C it maintained its view that the water  ingress  had 
been due to wear  and tear of the roof. It said the condition  of the roof had deteriorated over 
a period of time and, so, was excluded under their policy.
Unhappy with this, Miss S and Mr M brought their complaint to our service. However, our 
investigator didnt  uphold it. She agreed  with L&Gs outcome  and thought it had acted fairly 
in declining to cover this claim. But Miss S and Mr M disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. 
Ref: DRN77915892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that extensive  water  damage occurred to Miss S and Mr Ms property. 
However, theres a disagreement between the parties about  the cause of the damage  and 
correct outcome of this claim. 
I can see Miss S and Mr M have  gone  to some  trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed submissions and feel very strongly  that their claim should be paid. I want  to assure 
them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope they will understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve  made in this decision.  I intend to concentrate on what  I consider is 
key to the complaint  namely  whether L&G acted  reasonably in declining  this claim. And Ill 
explain why I think it has.
Miss S and Mr Ms policy provides cover for damage  caused by a range of perils that might  
happen. These are specific  one-off events and include storm, for example. In order  for a 
claim to be successful, a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by a storm.
L&G considered whether  or not a storm had caused  the damage. I think that this was 
reasonable because Miss S and Mr M told L&G they thought the internal damage to their 
home had been  caused  by the weight of the snow on their roof.
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In weighing  up the first question  Ive looked to see if Miss S and Mr Ms policy defines storm. 
I can see on page 8 of the policy  booklet storm is defined as having wind  speeds  with gusts 
of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least one inch/25mm per hour or 
snow to a depth of at least  one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail of such  intensity that it causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.  
Ive reviewed weather  records to see what it was like in Miss S and Mr Ms locality at around  
the time of the damage. Having done  so, I can see that the highest  snowfall recorded  was 
15-17cm (12cm of snow accumulating in the 24 hours to 9.00am). This was on 
1 March 2018. I can see that our investigator  checked weather records from another source,  
which gave comparable results.  
Ive seen Miss S and Mr Ms photos of their house covered in ice. But under the terms of 
their policy the weather  recorded doesnt meet  the conditions of a storm. So, Im not satisfied 
that storm conditions  existed at around  the date of the damage.
I think  that the adverse weather that Miss S and Mr M experienced in March 2018 has 
exposed the underlying deterioration of their roof and caused that to worsen. But based  on 
the information provided I think  the roof damage  was caused by wear  and tear, which 
Ref: DRN77915893happened over a period of time. Im not persuaded it was caused by a one-off storm event  or 
the boiler breaking.
On page 2 of the policy booklet L&G makes it clear that its policy  covers  the costs  of 
unexpected loss or damage It goes on to state  that it doesnt cover  wear and tear, 
maintenance costs  such as refixing loose roof tiles, repointing brickwork  or replacing 
guttering or damage  that happens  over a period of time, for example damp, rot and damage
from vermin. This is in common with most home  insurance policies  because  insurance is 
intended to cover the unforeseen, and something  wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt 
unforeseen.
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear  and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case  L&G is able to rely on Cs opinion that the damage 
was caused by a poorly  maintained roof and pre-existing issues with the mortar. Ive seen 
the report from Miss S and Mr Ms builder. They think  this report shows  the damage wasnt 
due to wear and tear. But this report says mortar had been washed out of the brickwork on 
the gable end wall and that this had caused water ingress into the property. 
Miss S and Mr Ms think the water was coming out of the overflow pipe outside  their property 
causing damage to their roof. But the overflow  pipe is designed  to take water away  in 
circumstances when  the valve inside isnt working. 
While I appreciate the valve inside their house  wasnt working Im satisfied  that the overflow 
pipe was doing the job it was intended to do. And I dont  think  the mortar washed away  
because of the water leaving their house  via the overflow pipe. 
Mortar washing  away is something that happens  gradually. It doesnt happen due to water 
pouring from an overflow pipe as happened in Miss S and Mr Ms case.  Mortar  is intended  to 
be weather and water resistant though it will deteriorate over time when exposed to 
extremes of weather. And I think the report they obtained supports L&Gs argument that the 
damage to the roof is most likely due to wear and tear instead  of a single one off leak, which  
is what is covered by Miss S and Mr Ms policy. 
As the damage  is most  likely due to wear and tear and something  thats  happened  gradually 
it isnt covered under the terms  and conditions of Miss S and Mr Ms insurance policy. So I 
dont think L&G made an error in declining their claim. 
Ill now address some  service complaints Miss S and Mr M raised  about  the way in which 
they were dealt with by L&G.  I can see that theyve complained  about  the content  of 
messages L&G play to policyholders while theyre  on hold. They  say they heard  a message 
saying L&G cover  all weather related damages, except fence panels. They feel this was 
misleading and unfair  given their claim was declined.
L&G has told our service  that this is a generic  message and I think thats fair. I say this 
because we wouldnt expect an insurer  to use different messages for policyholders whose  
claims it had declined.  Miss S and Mr M may feel the message they heard doesnt go on to 
specify policy exclusions. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect messages to contain the 
full terms and conditions  of a policy. 
Miss S and Mr M say L&G misled them because it told them if they provided  a report from B 
stating what had caused the leak it would  cover the damage caused. But Ive listened to the 
phone recording during which this discussion took place. And I can hear L&Gs agent 
Ref: DRN77915894explaining clearly  to Miss S and Mr M why their claim had been  declined and that L&G would 
consider any further information it received from them. I dont think the information  
Miss S and Mr M were  given was incorrect or misleading.
When L&G reviewed the report B provided  it maintained its view that the damage had been 
caused by wear and tear. It didnt think Bs report identified a cause for the damage 
Miss S and Mr Ms property had sustained. And it also didnt think the boiler valve  breaking  
was consistent  with the damage that Miss S and Mr Ms roof sustained.  Based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I dont think L&Gs decision about their claim was unreasonable.
Miss S and Mr M are also unhappy because they say C failed to attend their property on the 
agreed date with no prior warning.  They  say this resulted in them unnecessarily  taking a day 
off work. L&G disputes this. Its shown our service evidence  that C was initially due to visit 
Miss S and Mr Ms property on 29 March 2018 but they called to cancel that appointment the 
same day. L&G has provided  evidence that C then attended their property on 5 April to 
inspect the damage. I can see that Miss S and Mr M refute this evidence.
I appreciate it may have  been frustrating and inconvenient to Miss S and Mr M for Cs visit to 
have been put off. I can see they were proactively trying to progress their claim with L&G.  
But, C was able to attend their property within ten days of them  making a claim for damage. I 
think this shows that all parties were dealing with this claim in a timely manner. 
Miss S and Mr M say there were  periods  of time where they were chasing L&G for 
information about their claim. But claims for an escape  of water can be complex and tend to 
take some  time to resolve.  While Miss S and Mr M may feel there were  periods of inactivity I 
can see L&G were assessing the cause of damage  and considering information Miss S and 
Mr M provided as wed expect. 
I acknowledge that, as loyal paying customers,  Miss S and Mr M feel let down by L&G. They  
say theyre unable to afford to repair the damage  caused and theyre  suffering considerable 
distress. But, overall, Im satisfied L&G handled their claim fairly and I think it applied the 
terms of their policy reasonably in declining their claim. It follows  that I dont think  it would be 
fair to require L&G to pay their claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7791589