K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that when  he called  on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) to repair a leak
under his home emergency insurance  policy:
BGI was slow in attending and repairing  the leak; and
when its engineer did attend,  the repair was faulty and caused further damage.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 February  2019,  a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr P has accepted my provisional decision.  BGI hasnt responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr P nor BGI has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited 
to:
1.pay Mr P a contribution of £500 towards  the work of repair  and redecoration now 
required instead of the £200  it has previously offered; and
2.pay Mr P £230 as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its poor service 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that when he called  on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) to repair a leak under 
his home emergency insurance policy:
    BGI was slow in attending and repairing the leak; and
    when its engineer did attend,  the repair was faulty and caused further damage.
background
Ref: DRN78721902Mr P owned a residential property which was rented to a tenant. He took out a home  emergency  
policy with BGI to cover the propertys central heating system,  plumbing,  drains and electrics.
In April 2018,  Mr Ps tenant found there was a leak from the bathroom,  which was causing  water to 
run down the wall of the room below. He phoned  BGI to ask it to attend. BGI said it wouldnt at that 
stage. Mr P rang BGI and insisted  that it send an engineer.
The engineer who attended (the first engineer)  said the leak wasnt serious at that stage. He 
wouldnt deal with the repair then, but said BGI would arrange a repair on or before a date nine 
days away. The next day the tenant found the leak had substantially increased. There was now a 
significant flow down the wall. Mr P again insisted  that BGI attend  and repair the leak.
An engineer (the second engineer)  did attend  and repaired the leak. However  some ten days 
later, the tenant found water was again  coming down the wall from the same area as before. He 
called BGI who attended  the following  day. This engineer  (the third engineer)  found  the previous  
BGI repair  was faulty. He replaced this faulty repair.
Mr P complained  to BGI. He said he would now have to replaster the wall, replace the damaged 
ceiling, and redecorate both. If the first engineer had repaired the leak when he
first reported it to BGI, this amount of work wouldnt have been needed. At most, the affected
wall and ceiling would have needed to be repainted.
BGI accepted his complaint. It acknowledged  the first engineer hadnt properly  diagnosed the 
seriousness of the leak, and the second engineer carried out a faulty repair. However  it said 
BGI hadnt  caused the initial leak. It thought most of the damage  would have been caused 
before it became involved,  and under  the policy  terms it wasnt responsible for this.
In its view,  the additional  damage that arose after its involvement was minimal. Mr P had 
estimates suggesting the cost of making good the damage would be some £1,000.  BGI 
offered a contribution of £200 towards this, plus £230 as compensation for the service 
failures by the first and second engineers.
Mr P didnt accept this offer. In his view, most of the damage happened  after the initial visit of the 
first engineer.  So he thought BGI should pay all or a substantial part of the repair  costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He had looked at photos  
taken at different stages.  He thought that before Mr P contacted BGI, the ceiling and wall had already 
suffered water damage. And under the policy terms, BGI wasnt responsible for that.
He thought the wall and ceiling would already have been saturated before water became visible. 
So the majority of the damage had occurred before BGI became involved, and would  have 
needed to have been repaired. He said the cost of repairing the additional damage for which  
BGI was responsible would be minimal.
He thought BGIs offer to contribute £200 towards the repair  costs was reasonable.  He also 
thought its offer of £230 as compensation for the trouble  and upset its poor service caused Mr 
P was fair.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that if the first engineer  had dealt properly  with the repair 
when he first attended, he wouldnt have needed to have  repaired the wall or replaced part of 
the ceiling. Only redecoration would  have been needed.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN78721903Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a number  of photos on BGIs file showing the affected areas at different stages  of 
the leak:
    The first photo was taken by Mr Ps tenant  about the time the first engineer  attended.
The photo shows the wall, with little damage visible. It doesnt show the ceiling. I
think this is likely to have been  because little or no damage to the ceiling was evident 
at that stage.
    The second photo was taken  by Mr Ps tenant about the time the second engineer  
attended. Again, this photo  shows the wall, with staining from water running  down the 
wall and water  visible on the carpet below. Again  the photo  doesnt show  the ceiling.  
Again I think this is likely  to have been  because  there wasnt significant  damage to
the ceiling at that stage.
    The third and fourth photos were taken by BGI once  the leak had been repaired by 
the third engineer. The wall is shown to be cracked, and the ceiling  is heavily stained 
over a large area.
I understand  the point BGI makes  that water damage can take some time to become
evident. BGI says that when the first engineer visited and declined to repair the leak, the wall and 
ceiling would have already been so damaged that they would have needed replastering and 
replacing.
On the evidence  available to me, I think, on balance this is unlikely. I think  its probable that only 
redecoration would have been required  at that stage if the first engineer had repaired the leak then. 
So I think its fair that BGI makes a greater contribution to the work required.
Mr P has obtained two estimates for the repairs and redecoration  now required. He says he intends 
to accept the lower quote for £975.  I think its fair and reasonable that BGI pays Mr P a contribution of 
£500 towards this work,  rather than the £200 it has previously offered.
I think the £230 BGI has offered as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its poor service 
caused Mr P is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence  I receive from 
either Mr P or from BGI by 4 March 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
British Gas Insurance  Limited to:
1.  pay Mr P a contribution of £500 towards the work of repair and redecoration now 
required instead of the £200  it has previously  offered;  and
2.  pay Mr P £230  as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its poor service 
caused him.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872190