K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy with a boiler she purchased using a loan provided by Hitachi  Capital (UK) 
Plc. She has been represented throughout this complaint but for simplicitys sake,  Ive only 
referred to Miss M throughout  this decision.
background
In February 2018,  Miss M took out a loan with Hitachi  which  paid for the installation of a new 
boiler. The boiler was supplied  and installed by a separate company which Ive referred to as 
B.
Miss M says she had particular requirements  in relation to the performance of the boiler -
specifically, in respect of water pressure. She says a representative of B assured her that 
this particular boiler would meet those requirements.  She says she was told that the water  
pressure in the shower would not be affected by running other  water-using appliances at the 
same time. Shortly after installation, Miss M complained that the performance of the boiler 
was significantly below  the standard shed been  led to expect.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. She concluded that Miss M 
had entered into this agreement on the basis of an inaccurate  statement  made  by B. Hitachi 
didnt agree with the investigators  opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April in which I said:
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Consumer  Rights Act 
2015. Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  says that, under specific 
circumstances where  a consumer has paid for goods or services on credit,  the 
provider of the credit can be held jointly  responsible for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of those  goods  or services. In this case  I am 
satisfied that Miss M contracted  with the supplier  for the goods and services 
purchased on credit  and has a like claim against  Hitachi under s75 for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in relation  to these.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a number of terms into this contract. It says 
(amongst other things) that, if a consumer makes  known any particular purpose for 
which theyre buying goods, the contract should  be treated as including a term that 
the goods are reasonably fit for that purpose.
As I understand it, Miss M has bought  a working boiler. However,  she says that she 
told the sales representative that the flow of hot water throughout her home would 
need to support multiple outlets being  in use at the same time. She says she was 
given the assurance  that the new boiler  would meet this requirement.  She told us that 
the sales representative said:
You could be having a shower,  whilst someone  is washing up and the 
washing machine  is on and you wont have a drop in pressure.
Ref: DRN78198572However, Bs own engineer carried out an inspection of the boiler. In his report, he 
wrote:
This is a case of bad advice or wrong information given at the point of sale  
I would not have advised the customer that the combination boiler would do 
what the [representative] claimed  it would 
[]
 as the customer is renovating the property  I would have advised that 
either a full sized un-vented cylinder  to supply the whole propertys hot water 
requirements, or a smaller one was installed  to supply  just the shower  still 
making use of the efficiency of the combination boilers ability  to supply  
instantaneous hot water elsewhere  The customer was not given this 
option.
Miss M has been consistent  in her recollections  of the conversations with Bs 
representative throughout this complaint. Ive also looked at the paperwork  that was 
completed at the time Miss M came to the agreement with the supplier. Nothing in 
these documents  contradicts what Miss M has had to say. Furthermore,  the fact that 
she raised her concerns  so soon after the installation  strongly  supports the argument 
shes made about the performance expectations she had for the boiler.  Overall,  I see 
no reasonable basis for doubting her when  she says that she was given these  
assurances. 
As I understand it, the boiler is not defective.  However, the evidence Ive seen 
suggests that Miss M made  the supplier of the goods aware of her specific  
requirements and it assured her the goods  would be suited to them. And as the boiler  
appears to underperform in view of this requirement,  I dont think its fit for its 
particular purpose.  Considering the relevant  law (including s75), I think  that its fair 
and reasonable for Hitachi to do something  to put this right.
I proposed two potential  ways of working out how Miss M ought to be compensated in the 
circumstances. 
Option 1 was that the boiler be removed,  refunded  and Miss M would arrange for a suitable 
alternative that did meet her needs.  Under  this option, I said that Miss M should be refunded  
the retail cost of the boiler and an estimate  of the costs directly related to the installation,  
setup and testing  of a new boiler  which shed likely to have  to pay again  to any engineer 
installing a new one.
But I also said that any settlement would need to have deducted from it costs relating  to the 
relocation of the boiler from that was part of a bigger plan Miss M appeared to have for the 
renovation of her bathroom. This included the installation of a new flue, upgrading pipework 
and running utilities  to the new boiler location.  I recommended  that any settlement have 
deducted from it the a typical  cost of a power flush and the installation  of smart controls and 
a new flue  all things  which appeared wouldnt require repeating once they installed  a new 
boiler.
I also recommended an award  of £500 for distress and inconvenience  and said the following 
regarding such awards in cases like this one:
Ref: DRN78198573Allowing Miss M to organise replacement should minimise the inconvenience. And 
now the re-location work has been  carried out, it should be a more straightforward 
job. But it is inevitable that there  will be some disruption. Under  a section 75 
complaint, Im only looking at what the finance  provider  in this case  Hitachi  have 
done or need to do in response to Miss Ms like claim against  the supplier. Its 
therefore relevant  to consider what compensation a court might  award  against  the 
supplier in similar circumstances. Compensation for distress and inconvenience  is 
often limited in this type of contract as with any building  work  there  is an expectation 
of a level of disruption  and inconvenience.
However, I do recognise that having  the boiler taken out again is going to cause 
some level of physical  inconvenience  and discomfort that wouldnt have happened if 
things had gone as planned. And this is something  I can ask Hitachi  to compensate 
her for, as its directly  linked to the remedy Im asking them to apply in this complaint.
My provisional award then was:
retail cost of the boiler (£900)
estimated cost of the installation of the boiler (£600)
an award for distress  and inconvenience (£500)
From this total (£2,000) I suggested Hitachi retain the cost of a power flush (estimated at 
£350) and the installation  of smart controls (£125). 
Option 2 involved Miss M keeping the original boiler  but accepting  a price  reduction, but it 
was clear from subsequent correspondence that this wasnt a viable option for her.
responses to these provisional  findings
Hitachi didnt respond to my provisional findings.  Miss M responded in some  detail and 
questioned some of the assumptions regarding  costs.  
She identified a much more expensive system  that she felt would meet her needs and said 
that she felt Hitachi  should pay a third party installer the costs associated with installing such 
a system. I think this would be disproportionate. Although the price  of the contract was 
£2,995, Miss M hasnt  paid that full amount yet. She paid a deposit of £1,497.50, has made 
(at the time of writing) around five monthly repayments of £32.20  and has had to pay for the 
boiler to be serviced.  Any award of compensation needs to take into account the total 
amount Miss M has paid under this agreement.
She said that it would  be unreasonable to deduct  the cost of the smart controls,  the flush  and 
the installation  of a new flue because each  of these things would need  to be carried out a 
second time if a new boiler was installed.  Our investigator contacted the business  Miss M 
intends to use to install a new system who confirmed  this to be the case  so I wont allow 
Hitachi to deduct  these sums from the total compensation  it needs to pay to Miss M.
Miss M also pointed out that in the time since she made this complaint,  shes  started making  
monthly repayments on the credit agreement (repayment had been deferred for the first 12 
months of the agreement) and felt that these costs  should  be refunded too. She also said 
that shed paid for the boiler to receive an annual service because  she was in a position of 
uncertainty as to whether  shed be keeping the boiler or changing it. She thinks Hitachi 
Ref: DRN78198574should refund this cost too. Given that she wouldnt have incurred these additional costs but 
for the breach of contract,  I think  its reasonable for Hitachi  to compensate  her for them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. On production of an invoice for the work to 
replace the boiler, Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc needs to end the finance agreement  with nothing  
further for Miss M to pay. It then needs to pay Miss M:
1.the retail price of the boiler (£900)
2.an estimated cost of the installation of that boiler  (£600)
3.cost of the boiler service (£56)
4.all monthly  payments made under the finance  agreement
5.a sum in recognition of the inconvenience of having to arrange for a second boiler to 
be installed (£500)
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc also needs to pay 8% simple interest  per year on items 1-4 from the 
date Miss M paid them until the date it pays a settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7819857