K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms S are unhappy with the service they received from BUPA  Insurance  Services 
Limited and that it didnt  inform them when changing the healthcare  provider network it used 
in the USA. 
background
Mr H took out a global health policy with BUPA in or around 2001, which he continued to 
renew each year. In 2007 he added  Ms S to the policy.
In 2014 / 2015,  BUPA  began the process  of transferring its policyholders  over to a new 
healthcare provider network in the USA.  Mr H says he only found out about this towards the 
end of 2017. Hes unhappy because Ms S had separate medical insurance which covered 
healthcare in a particular  USA state  with the same healthcare  provider whod joined forces 
with BUPA  in 2015. As a result, he says, Ms S had duplicate cover and hed unnecessarily 
paid over $30,000 for her to be covered between 2015 and 2017 with BUPA. He chose  not 
to renew the policy for Ms S when it was due to lapse at the end of November 2017.
Mr H is also unhappy with the service he received when trying to renew  the policy with 
BUPA in November 2017. He didnt receive a call back on 16 November, which hed been  
promised after BUPA had been contacted  on 15 November. And despite  chasing, he says 
no-one from BUPA contacted him until 28 November,  during which  he was given wrong 
information but this was subsequently corrected on 30 November 2017. Hes also unhappy  
that despite making a formal request for BUPA  to send  him recordings of certain phone calls 
on 18 January 2018, these werent provided until two days  after the statutory timeframe of 
40 days. He also says the recordings  show that he wasnt given  the information BUPA 
purports it gave him during those calls. 
BUPA says Mr H was made aware  of the change in healthcare provider network.  It also says 
the coverage Ms S had under its policy didnt duplicate the other health insurance  she had in 
place. So, it didnt offer to refund the premiums Mr H paid for Ms S to be covered on the policy 
between 2015  and 2017. It has, however, apologised  for the poor customer  service given in 
November 2017  and offered $100  as compensation  to acknowledge that. Its also 
acknowledged that the call recordings were sent to him a bit later than they shouldve  been but 
it says Mr H received updates so hed been made  aware that there might be a short delay. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She didnt think BUPA needed to do anything  
more. Mr H and Ms S dont  agree so their complaint has been passed  to me to look at 
everything afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why. 
I dont know whether BUPA advised  Mr H to take out the global  health insurance policy.  But I 
dont think joining forces with the particular healthcare provider to provide services in the 
USA made  the policy unsuitable for him or Ms S. 
Ref: DRN71583342From what  Ive seen, other  than the change of healthcare provider, the terms of the policy 
didnt change in 2015 when the policy was renewed.  And because  of this I dont  think  the 
change of provider  made the policy unsuitable  for Mr Hs and Ms Ss needs. 
Ms S did have a health policy with the provider which joined forces with BUPA in 2014 / 
2015 to provide healthcare services  but I dont think that made the policy  unsuitable either. 
From what  Ive seen, the coverage provided by the other policy  Ms S had didnt replicate the 
global health  policy she had the benefit of through BUPA,  and it wasnt  a like for like policy.
I also accept what BUPA says about the effect  of legislation  that came into force  in the USA 
in 2014 which resulted  in enrolment into compulsory health  insurance contracts; that it was 
advisable for USA residents to hold a local health  policy in addition  to its global policy as that 
policy wasnt designed to meet local requirements  of each country  it covered  healthcare  in. 
Regardless of whether  BUPA  advised  Mr H and Ms S to take out the policy, it still had to 
give them  clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the main terms of the policy upon 
renewal of the policy  including  in 2015. Even if I was persuaded that the identity of the 
service partner was a significant term of the policy, Im satisfied Mr H was given  this 
information in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. BUPA  has provided me with a leaflet 
which it says was sent to Mr H along  with other  documents in 2015, shortly  before the policy  
was due to renew.  That leaflet  explains that BUPA was joining  forces  with a different service 
partner to approve cover, locate medical  services, processing claims and providing medical 
support in the USA. Its provided a screenshot which reflects that renewal documents  were 
posted to Mr H and made  available  to him on his portal online.  Screenshots  support that 
renewal documents  were  sent out and uploaded in mid-October 2015  and Mr H accessed 
the portal a few weeks later. 
I cant know for sure whether the leaflet  was sent to Mr H or uploaded to the portal;  its 
possible that it wasnt. But, on the balance of probabilities,  I think  it was. So even if Mr H 
didnt read that particular  document,  I dont think BUPA had a duty to follow  this up with him. 
Besides, it looks like Mr H was sent new membership cards and if he didnt  understand why 
that was the case  - or why he had different membership numbers - he couldve questioned 
BUPA. He didnt do that at the time because he says he never received them,  and never 
claimed on the cards. Again, thats  possible.  But the letter  is addressed to him and displays 
the correct address so I think its likely that he did receive them,  although he might not 
recollect that now considering the length  of time thats passed.
So, all in all, I dont  think BUPA did anything wrong when renewing the policy  in 2015. And it 
follows that Im not asking  it to refund any premiums paid by Mr H for Ms Ss policy between 
the period 2015 and 2017.
BUPA accepts that the level of service  it provided  to Mr H in November 2017 was below par. 
I accept this wouldve  caused a moderate level of inconvenience and frustration for Mr H. 
Particularly as he was told on 28 November 2017  that BUPA wouldnt be able to renew  the 
policy for him when  it was due to expire a couple of days  later.  However, BUPA  confirmed 
on 30 November 2017 that the information hed been given wasnt  right and he was able to 
renew the policy. I think $100  fairly  compensates Mr H for the impact BUPAs  service and 
initial error had on him. 
Ref: DRN71583343Ive also taken on board what Mr H says about receiving the call recordings hed requested  
from BUPA two days after the timeframe it had given him. However, it did keep him updated 
after the deadline passed and I dont think the delay of two days had any impact on Mr H or 
caused him any personal distress or inconvenience to Mr H. 
Mr H is also unhappy that the recordings he received of two calls he had with BUPA  in 2015 
showed no evidence  of him (or Ms S) being told about the effect the change in USA 
legislation was going to have on their policy, even though BUPA had said that the calls did 
confirm that he was told this. From  what Ive seen, Im not persuaded BUPA has said this 
information was given to him during either  of those two phone  calls. BUPA only says in an 
email to Mr Hs assistant  dated 18 January 2018  that one of the calls showed he was told all 
members were again covered for insurance  in the USA, and the call Ive listened to from 
October 2015 confirms  he was told that. So, I dont think BUPA has later misrepresented to 
Mr H what was said in those calls.
my final decision
BUPA Insurance Services Limited doesnt  need to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7158334