K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss D. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy,  taken  out in 2001 by phone, to cover  an existing store 
credit account. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Miss D 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss D has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
I dont think Miss D is saying the PPI was added without her proper agreement  and indeed 
there isnt evidence of this. 
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Ds 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss D to decide  whether  it was suitable.
Miss D does say it wasnt properly explained  that she was buying a PPI policy  that covered 
sickness and unemployment. Instead  she thought it was price protection  for her purchases.  
She says that, if shed  properly understood, she wouldnt have taken the PPI. She says she 
had good sick pay benefits from her employer and also savings.  She would have been able 
to pay off the balance if she lost her income.  
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to say FICL gave her incomplete information on the 
phone, unless I had reasonable supporting evidence. And I wouldnt be surprised if Miss D 
didnt remember all the details of what happened, given  that this happened about 18 years 
ago. I accept she did have other  means to pay the credit bill, and these would have lasted 
quite a while. But I cant say that those other means were  so good that she wouldnt have 
taken the PPI, even  with the fullest information on the policy, its costs and benefits. 
I say this because  its fairly likely the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full 
employer sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or 
redundancy pay. Her sick pay and savings  would have been needed for all her living  costs,  
and not just to pay this credit bill. And, with PPI, she could  have  kept her savings in reserve  
for longer. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions  in the policy. 
Ref: DRN79383992my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7938399