K820x#14complaint
The representatives of Ms Ls estate have complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds 
refusal to accept a claim for treatment costs  under  the late Ms Ls private medical 
insurance policy.
background
Ms L was admitted  to an NHS hospital after suffering a stroke.  BUPA  was asked if it would 
authorise a transfer  to a private hospital, however it wanted more  information about Ms Ls 
condition. Ms Ls family arranged for her to be transferred to a private hospital, regardless 
of not having BUPAs  authorisation.
BUPA ultimately decided  that Ms L didnt have an eligible claim under the policy. However, 
it paid £600 total compensation due to its handling  of the claim. It also noted it had paid
£2,555 for Ms Ls treatment costs in error, and confirmed it wouldnt require this to be 
paid back. Unhappy with BUPAs decision, a complaint  was brought  to this service by the 
representatives of the estate.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed  with BUPA that the 
claim wasnt eligible. He noted Ms L had received  home nursing care after being 
discharged from hospital. However, he thought that even if payment were due for this, it 
was more than covered  by the £2,555 that BUPA had paid in error.  He thought the 
compensation BUPA had paid for its handling  of the claim was reasonable.
The representatives of the estate have asked for an ombudsmans  decision, therefore  
the matter has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
Exclusion 19 Intensive care (other than routinely needed after private day-patient 
treatment or in-patient treatment)
We do not pay for any intensive care if:
    it follows an unplanned or an emergency admission to an NHS hospital or facility
    it follows a transfer (whether or an emergency basis  or not) to an NHS hospital  or
facility from a private recognised facility
    it follows a transfer from an NHS critical care unit to a private critical care unit
    it is carried out in a unit or facility which is not a critical care unit.
We do not pay for any intensive care, or any other  treatment in a critical care unit, if it is 
not routinely required as a medically  essential  part of the eligible treatment being carried  
out.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment for intensive care but only as set out in benefit 3 
in the section Benefits.
Ref: DRN72679932Benefit 3 in the section Benefits says the following about intensive care:
We only pay for intensive care
    when needed as an essential part of your eligible treatment if all the 
following conditions are met:
o the intensive care is required routinely by patients undergoing the 
same type of treatment as yours
o you are receiving  private eligible treatment in a recognised facility  
equipped with a critical care unit
o the intensive care is carried  out in the critical care unit; and
o it follows your planned admission to the recognised  facility  for private
treatment
Intensive care is defined within the policy as:
eligible treatment for intensive care, intensive therapy, high dependency care, coronary 
care or progressive care.
Ms L was taken by ambulance to an NHS  hospital  and admitted  via accident 
and emergency.  She was therefore an emergency  admission.
Ms L was then transferred to a general  ward  at the NHS hospital, where she stayed for 
more than 24 hours. Her family then arranged for her to be transferred to a high 
dependency unit
in a private hospital.
As Ms L was receiving  high dependency care at the private hospital, this falls within  the 
policy definition of intensive  care. The policy excludes intensive  care if it follows an 
unplanned or emergency admission to an NHS hospital. Ms Ls admission to the high 
dependency unit at the private hospital  did follow an emergency  admission  to an NHS 
hospital (albeit not immediately). Im therefore  satisfied the claim falls under  the 
exclusion.
The legal representative to the executors of the estate says the exclusion is clearly 
intended to refer only to intensive  care carried out in an NHS hospital. I disagree. The 
exclusion relates to any claim for intensive care treatment, regardless of where its carried  
out. Though of course an NHS hospital  doesnt charge UK residents for hospital treatment 
(other than admissions to private wards), so claims would relate  to intensive care 
treatment undertaken  in a private  hospital  or facility.
The exclusion does have an exception to it, where intensive care will be covered in 
certain circumstances.  Ive therefore considered  whether the claim falls under the 
exception.
After transferring from the NHS  hospital,  Ms L was admitted immediately to the high 
dependency care unit at the private hospital. That admission to intensive care didnt follow  
a planned admission for private treatment. That being the case, Im satisfied the intensive  
care treatment doesnt fall under the exception and remains  excluded.
After receiving treatment on the high dependency  unit, Ms L was transferred to a 
general ward. BUPA says that because  Ms Ls initial admission wasnt  covered by the 
Ref: DRN72679933policy, then any subsequent treatment provided on a general ward  during the same  
admission also wouldnt be covered. I dont agree.
The policy explains  the circumstances in which it will cover  intensive care treatment, and 
Ive explained  why Im satisfied the claim wouldnt be covered under this. However,  the 
policy doesnt say that any treatment received subsequent to the intensive care treatment  
also wouldnt  be covered.
Ive therefore  considered  the medical  evidence, as well as the policy  terms to see if Ms 
Ls treatment on the general  ward in the private hospital would be covered.
Ms L was transferred  to the private hospitals  general ward on 24 October 2017, 
and remained there until she was discharged on 23 November  2017.
Ms Ls treating consultant (Dr G) completed  a report on 20 October 2017. He explained  
that Ms L was receiving  very good  nursing care under the supervision of the intensive 
care consultants. He said it was thought  it was the right time to move from the intensive 
care environment to a ward, providing the nursing care was maintained at a satisfactory  
level.
A form completed  by Dr G in November 2017  referred to Ms Ls in-patient  stay needing  to 
be extended from 11 October 2017 to 14 November 2017 so she could receive physio, 
occupational therapy,  and speech  and language therapy.
The policy says:
Exclusion 9 Convalescence, rehabilitation and general nursing care
We do not pay for recognised  facility accommodation if it is primarily used for any of 
the following  purposes:
    convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than 
receiving eligible treatment
    receiving general nursing care or any other services which  could have been  
provided in a nursing home  or in any other establishment which is not a recognised  
facility
    receiving services from a therapist, complementary medicine  practitioner  or 
mental health and wellbeing  therapist.
The evidence from Dr G indicates that Ms L received  physio, occupational health  therapy 
and speech and language  therapy  until 14 November 2017. 
Ive also seen information from the hospital which outlines what nursing care Ms L 
received from the date she was admitted to the general ward until the date she was 
discharged from the hospital. I havent  seen evidence  that she required any other medical  
treatment.
It would therefore seem that whilst  on the general ward, Ms L received general  nursing 
care, as well as some rehabilitation by way of therapy and physio to help her recover  from 
her stroke.  Im satisfied that this falls under the above exclusion, and therefore her stay on 
the general ward  also isnt covered.
The above  exclusion  does  have  an exception,  where BUPA will pay for up to 21 days
rehabilitation which is aimed at restoring someones  health or mobility, such as after a
Ref: DRN72679934stroke. However, this is only covered where  the rehabilitation  is an integral part of eligible 
in- patient treatment.  As Ive found  that Ms Ls in-patient treatment was excluded  under the 
policy, this means she wasnt receiving eligible in-patient treatment and so the 
rehabilitation she received also wouldnt be covered.
Once Ms L had been discharged from the private hospital, she received home nursing 
care for several months  until she sadly passed away.
I see the policy will pay up to £600  per policy  year for home nursing care.  Ms Ls home 
nursing care spanned  two policy years, therefore there is the potential  for up to £1,200  to 
be paid by BUPA towards this.
The policy says that BUPA will pay for home nursing  immediately following private  eligible  
in- patient treatment.  Again, as Ive found  that Ms Ls in-patient treatment was excluded  
under the policy,  she therefore wasnt receiving eligible in-patient treatment. Consequently, 
the home nursing care she received also wouldnt be covered.
Turning to BUPAs handling of the claim.  BUPA has provided Ms Ls family with confusing  
and conflicting  information throughout the claim,  which BUPA  has accepted. I agree with 
the executors  of the estate that BUPA has in some  of its written correspondence made it 
seem as though  some  of the claim would be payable. However, I dont think  Ms Ls family 
relied on
that when making decisions about Ms Ls treatment. I think it was apparent  that regardless  
of whether or not BUPA  paid for any of the treatment costs,  they were still going  to ensure 
Ms L had her treatment  in a private  hospital.
BUPA has apologised for its handling of the claim,  and paid total compensation of £600. 
Its also waived the £2,555 it had paid towards  Ms Ls treatment costs  in error. Overall,  I 
think this was fair and I dont require BUPA to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Ms Ls estate to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7267993