K820x#14complaint
Ms N has complained about the way RAC Insurance Limited handled  a claim she made 
under her European  Breakdown Cover policy.
background
In July 2018 Ms N was travelling to France by ferry when she realised she couldnt put her 
car into reverse gear. She called RAC for assistance. It arranged  for her car to be taken to a 
garage when she arrived in France as Ms N decided to continue her journey on the ferry. 
In August  2018  Ms N complained to RAC. In summary, she was unhappy with the repair 
estimate the garage  gave her in France  and that RAC wouldnt agree to repatriate her car 
back to the UK. Ms N had obtained  a repair estimate from her garage in the UK for below 
£1,000. But the garage in France wasnt prepared to order parts  from the UK or use second 
hand parts  to repair Ms Ns car. Its estimate  came  to €2,655.67. The relationship  between  
Ms N and the garage broke down. She was also unhappy with an excess charge a hire car 
company charged  her. 
In September  2018 RAC said that the excess  charged by the hire car company was outside 
its control, and fortunately Ms N had no cause to claim while using the hire car. 
It said the repair estimate provided  by the garage in France was more  than Ms Ns car was 
worth. This meant that RAC didnt provide  cover  for the repairs  or repatriation home to the 
UK. As the garage  isnt an agent  of RACs, it couldnt do anything about the garages refusal 
to repair  Ms Ns car the way she wanted. 
RAC said that if Ms N could find an alternative  garage in France to look at her car, it would 
arrange recovery there. But Ms N owed  storage  costs to the first garage from 9 August 2018. 
So shed need to pay these first. RAC said it would cover storage costs  from 1 August 2018 
 the date costs  began incurring  to 9 August 2018. 
Ms N didnt pay the garages storage  costs.  And so Ms Ns car has remained at the garage  
in France. 
In October  2018 she asked us to look at her complaint. She felt let down by RAC  and 
wanted compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms N explained 
she was still without a car. 
Our investigator thought that RAC had acted  reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Ms N didnt agree. She says she feels RAC never  intended to repair  her car. She feels  its 
unacceptable that as a single mother  shes been  left without a family car. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN77721082Ms Ns policy  with RAC says it will provide assistance if Ms N breaks down in Europe. As 
with most insurance policies, RACs policy has conditions and exclusions which are set out 
in the policy  booklet.
On 23 July 2018 Ms N decided to continue her journey onto the ferry although  she said she 
could only drive forward. RAC assisted Ms N by recovering  her car to a garage when she 
arrived in France.  
RACs policy says:
Not Covered
Repair costs, including  garage labour costs  and;
if the vehicle repair costs  will be more than its market value
The repair estimate  provided by the garage  in France was €2,655.67. I understand Ms N 
spoke to her garage  in the UK and was told it would cost less than £1,000 including  parts 
and labour to repair her car. So Ms N thought  it was unreasonable of the garage  in France  
not to repair  her car using parts ordered from the UK. 
But the garage in France isnt an agent  of RACs. And so this means  RAC isnt responsible  
for the garages  decision as to how  or whether its prepared to  carry out repairs  to Ms Ns 
car. Any agreement  made  in relation  to repairs was between Ms N and the garage.   
RAC told Ms N on 8 August 2018  that the garage  would charge for storage from 1 August 
2018. RAC said it will cover storage costs up to and including 9 August 2018. If Ms N wanted 
to take her car to an alternative  garage nearby to see if it could be repaired for less, RAC 
said it would  arrange  this. I think this was reasonable. 
Ms N disagrees. She says she couldnt ask RAC  to move her car because she had to pay 
the storage costs  first. She doesnt feel it was fair to expect her to find an alternative garage 
when she doesnt  even speak the language.  
I understand the situation overall  wasnt ideal and caused Ms N some frustration. But RACs 
offer to move Ms Ns car to a second garage  was above its obligations under the policy. And 
I think Ms N was aware of the storage charges before the date she became responsible for 
them. In all cases we look at whether a customer acted in a way to mitigate their 
circumstances. From what Ive seen, I cant say that RAC is responsible for Ms N not being 
able to move  her car to an alternative garage.
The market  value for Ms Ns car according to the main motor trade guides was in the region  
of £1,095 in August 2018. And RACs policy limited  its contribution toward repair  costs in any 
event at £1,000.  So because the repair estimate provided by the garage in France was more 
than Ms Ns car was worth, I dont  think RAC  was responsible  for repatriating her car back to 
the UK.
Ms N said the hire car company imposed  an excess of £1,000 and refused to accept her 
offer to pay for insurance cover on the excess. RAC  explained that it asks hire car 
companies in Europe  not to offer insurance against the excess  - as often it finds  this can 
lead to charges  the customer isnt aware  of. But as Ms N asked about insurance cover, RAC 
says the hire car company should have offered it to her. However, RAC says it isnt able to 
influence the level of excess the hire car company charges.
Ref: DRN77721083I know Ms N is upset  that she hasnt had use of her car since  it broke down in July 2018.  But 
I think RAC acted within the terms of the policy  and in a reasonable way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7772108