K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  National House-Building  Council  (NHBC). It provides 
the building  warranty  for their home.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought their home  with a warranty which began  in 2002. They report that they 
always had problems with the roof which were often  addressed verbally with the developer, 
who lived locally. In 2011 they reported water damage to NHBC and it said the developer 
had to carry out repairs. These were done in 2012.
Problems persisted  for Mr and Mrs W. In 2016  NHBC  accepted there was still on-going 
issues of water ingress in the same areas as previous repairs  and further remedial work was 
undertaken in early  2017. 
In the summer  of 2017, Mr and Mrs W reported further water damage.  NHBC initially 
declined to assist.  In 2018 it reviewed  that position  and visited  Mr and Mrs Ws home to 
assess the damage.  It accepted that water was ingressing in the same area as a previous 
repair. A problem with the tile overlap was identified and NHBC agreed to resolve this in the 
area where  water was getting  in.
Mr and Mrs W said NHBC should  resolve the tile problem where it occurred across the 
whole of their roof. They said NHBC had failed them by passing a property  which had a roof 
that wasnt fit for purpose.  Mr and Mrs W sad this wasnt about what  the policy  provided for 
but that it shouldnt be up to them to have to fix the roof when theyd  bought a property that 
was meant  to have  been checked and which  had a warranty. They said this had been  going 
on for years and NHBCs service  had been  poor.
NHBC apologised for having  initially declined to assist Mr and Mrs W when they came  back 
to it in 2017. It also accepted that it had caused delays in 2016/2017.  It offered £700 
compensation for the upset caused. But it explained  that it wouldnt be resolving the issue  
across the whole of Mr and Mrs Ws roof; just in the area identified in its report  of and visit in 
2018. It said the issue of the overlap had only been identified outside  of the term of the 
warranty. But, in any event, the issue didnt equate to a defect as defined by the warranty 
(which in certain circumstances it would  be required  to resolve). Mr and Mrs W complained 
to this service.
Our investigator explained that not every activity carried out by NHBC falls under our 
jurisdiction for consideration. She felt that NHBC had acted in line with the warranty  and said 
she couldnt reasonably recommend that it carry out further repairs.  She noted it had caused 
delays but felt that the compensation offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy. They said they felt NHBCs role was to protect them.  What  
had happened  here, they said, was that they were being left in the position of having to fix 
their roof themselves because every  repair NHBC did failed within  6 years.  They couldnt 
understand why NHCB had fixed the overlap issue in one area but wouldnt do so across the 
whole roof. They said that the repair that had been  done wasnt  satisfactory because the 
replacement tiles didnt  match  or fit properly with the existing ones. 
Ref: DRN72774432my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all complaints or all aspects of all complaints, that are brought  to this service can be 
considered by us. When we receive a complaint we always check  whether its within  our 
jurisdiction. We do this by considering the rules laid down in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook.
The rules  say that we can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a 
firm in carrying on regulated activities. The rules go on to say that, for an insurer  those 
activities are effecting or (more usually) carrying out contracts of insurance.
NHBC isnt an insurer  in the conventional sense. Part of its remit is to provide insurance but 
it also carries  out a number of other (non-insurance, non-regulated) activities  including 
setting standards  for UK house builders, ensuring  that new homes  are built to certain 
standards and providing a dispute resolution  service for the homeowner and developer in the 
first two years of the warranty. 
So whilst I feel for Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyve found  themselves in, I cant  get 
involved with or comment  on the concerns theyve raised about NHBC not checking their 
property, or not doing so properly, whilst it was being built.
What I have to focus on is whether NHBC, in its role as insurer, has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And if it didnt, what does it need to do to put matters right. 
The warranty was in effect for 10 years,  starting  in 2002. Whilst I know  Mr and Mrs W had 
some contact with the developer prior to 2011,  it was only in 2011 that issues  with the roof 
were notified  to NHBC. And theres  no record  or none that Ive been  shown  that shows  a 
problem with the roof tiles was brought to the attention  of the developer  during the first two-
year, defect  period, of the warranty. 
As water ingress from the roof was first notified to NHBC in 2011, the issue fell for 
consideration under the cover provided  for years 3  10 of the warranty. The cover  at this 
point is more limited than that provided  in the first two years.  During years 3  10, NHBC is 
only liable for resolving physical damage  caused by a defect  in certain areas  of the home.
In resolving physical  damage NHBC,  like any other  insurer  carrying out a repair,  has to 
ensure the work is effective. That might mean,  in some circumstances, that NHBC will 
resolve the defect,  or an area of it, as well (in order to protect  the damage repair).  It also 
means that if repairs fail even once the warranty has ended NHBC cant  reasonably  just 
deny liability  for the problem  purely on the basis that the warranty  has ended.
Whilst in 2011  NHBC  left the water ingress issue  to the builder to resolve  it did identify that 
the problem at that time was likely being  caused by a defect with the roof valley.  And that, to 
ensure that the water  damage repairs were effective, the defective valley  would need  
resolving as well. The repairs that NHBC then carried  out in 2018, after the warranty had 
ended, stemmed  from the fact that the developers  repairs had failed. At that stage  though a 
new problem was found, and fixed in the area of the water damage repair   the tiles not 
overlapping sufficiently. I think  that was likely done to ensure further damage to the repaired 
area didnt  occur. NHBCs investigations showed that repairs  in other areas  hadnt failed.
Ref: DRN72774433  
But if new areas of damage  appear, or new defects are found, when the warranty  is no 
longer in effect, NHBC doesnt have any liability under  the warranty for resolving either.  
Thats because the warranty only applies  over a fixed term and, as explained, in respect of 
certain aspects at specific times within that period. So when  the problem with the roof tiles 
was found NHBC didnt have any liability under the warranty for that issue.
NHBC also says that the problem with the tiles doesnt equate to a defect as defined.  So 
even if it had been found during the term of the warranty  it wouldnt have resolved it anyway. 
The policy defines  what NHBC views a defect  to be. Essentially  anything  that isnt in line with 
its technical requirements. Its technical  requirements are a set, or sets,  or criteria it has 
drawn up that it considers buildings subject to its warranties  should comply with. So it isnt 
enough to show  that a house is suffering from a problem  such  as a leaking roof, or that a 
part of a house has, in some way, been  built contrary  to manufacturers guidance issued in 
respect of the materials used, for example.  
Therefore, with regret for any upset this causes Mr and Mrs W, Im satisfied that NHBC, in 
only resolving the tile overlap issue in a small area of the roof has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Its acted in line with the policy and carried out work as Id expect it to, to make 
sure its insured repairs remain effective. I cant reasonably  require it to do more  than that.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs W have some  concerns about the repairs NHBC carried  out in 
2018, after their complaint  was made  to this service. Repairs do have  to be satisfactory. But 
as the repair  in question here occurred after Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was made  to this 
service, any concerns they have should be put to NHBC in the first instance.  If they remain 
unhappy with its response they can make a further complaint.
I do think NHBC could have  handled  things better at times.  Certainly  there were delays 
following it accepting in 2016 that more  work  was required. And again in 2017  when it 
refused to offer to assist  Mr and Mrs W further. I note NHBC has accepted  that. I also note 
how upset and frustrated  Mr and Mrs W feel. I have to bear in mind though that much of their 
frustration stems from the fact their house  passed inspection and they are now left with a 
costly issue that NHBC refused to resolve.  And Ive found it isnt liable for resolving.  Further,  
as Ive explained, NHCBs inspection activities dont fall under our jurisdiction to consider. 
Having looked  at everything, Im satisfied  that the £700 compensation offered by NHBC is 
fair and reasonable. If Mr and Mrs W wish to receive this sum,  they should  contact  NHBC.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7277443