K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA)  unfairly  declined  a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
background
In August  2018  Mrs R purchased a single  trip travel  insurance policy  underwritten  by AXA 
through a comparison  website.  The policy provided cover for the period 23 October 2018 to 
26 October 2018.
Mrs R was unable to go on holiday as her employers cancelled  her leave so she made a 
claim under her policy. AXA declined the claim and say that the holiday wasnt  cancelled. 
Instead, Mrs Rs travel  companion amended the names on the holiday booking  and a mutual 
relative went on the holiday in place of Mrs R.
Mrs R says that as she was unable to go on holiday she should  be able to claim for her 
proportion of the holiday costs. She says that the policy doesnt make  it clear that it wont  
pay out if someone else takes  the holiday.  And adds it was her travel companion, who was 
the lead name on the holiday booking that amended the booking.
AXA say that as someone went  in her place the holiday wasnt  cancelled and there were no 
unused travel or accommodation  costs. So they declined the claim.
Mrs R was unhappy with AXAs  response and brought her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigators view was that she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly  in declining the claim.
Mrs R has asked for an ombudsman to decide her case.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Rs employers, who are part of the emergency  services, cancelled her leave which 
meant she was unable to go on the holiday shed arranged with her relative. And I can 
understand this was disappointing for Mrs R.  
The cancellation section  of Mrs Rs policy  sets out what  is covered, and it says:-
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation  costs  and 
other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with 
your proportion only of any reasonable additional travel expenses  incurred  if
a) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b) the trip is curtailed before completion
as a result  of any of the following events..
One of the events being:-
Ref: DRN73664712You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed  Forces, Territorial  Army,  Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised  
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons,  provided  that the 
cancellation or curtailment  could not reasonably have been expected at the time 
when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
The policy sets out on the same page what is not covered  and it includes the following:-
         We  will only consider the unused  pre-paid  expenses of a person who is insured  under 
this policy.
The policy also states what AXA require to evidence a claim and this includes:-.
         Booking confirmation  together with a cancellation invoice from your travel agent, tour 
operator or provider of transport/accommodation.
At the centre  of this dispute is whether or not the holiday was cancelled and if there were 
any unused travel and accommodation costs. 
In a telephone call with this service  Mrs Rs representative said that Mrs R withdrew herself  
from the holiday when  her leave was cancelled.  And her travel companion subsequently 
changed the name on the holiday booking to that of another relative. So the trip wasnt 
cancelled, theres  no cancellation invoice and the travel and accommodation was used. 
I appreciate Mrs R hasnt enjoyed the holiday  shed  planned and this was through  no fault of 
her own.  However, Mrs R didnt cancel the trip, she simply didnt go on it and someone went 
in her place.  Im satisfied  the policy makes clear  it covers  unused travel and accommodation 
costs following cancellation of the trip and this should be evidenced  by a cancellation 
invoice. And in this case there was no unused travel  or accommodation cost,  the trip wasnt  
cancelled and there is no cancellation  invoice.
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Im satisfied its 
fair that AXAs decision stands. Had the trip been cancelled,  and Mrs R provided a 
cancellation invoice  she may well have had a valid claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7366471