K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  their home  buildings  and contents insurance. As the 
underwriter of the policies, Gresham Insurance Company Limited is responsible  for 
responding to the complaint. 
background 
Many years ago, Mr and Mrs R took out separate buildings and contents insurance policies 
through their mortgage provider. In 2006,  the mortgage provider  decided  to change  the 
underwriter of its policies  to Gresham. At the next renewal of each policy, Mr and Mrs Rs 
policies switched to new policies provided by Gresham. 
Gresham says that, in agreement with the mortgage provider, it transferred Mr and Mrs R 
onto its Finer policies,  as that was the closest match to their existing cover.  The reason for 
that choice was so as not to transfer  them to a policy  that provided either an inferior  policy or 
one that provided  a lower level of cover than they previously had. At renewal, Mr and Mrs R 
were informed of the changes in writing.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R complained that:
The Finer buildings insurance policy  was not suitable for them, as it was designed  for 
properties with at least six bedrooms or a rebuilding cost of more than £500,000. Their 
property had three bedrooms and a rebuilding cost in 2017  of £390,000. 
They shouldve been automatically put onto Greshams Standard buildings  insurance  
policy, which they feel is more suitable and wouldve been much less expensive. Or at 
least been made aware of the Standard  policy, at which point theyd have chosen this 
instead. 
The Finer contents policy,  which Mr and Mrs R say was appropriate for their needs, 
was overpriced from the outset. In 2017,  Mrs R obtained a quote  as a new  customer,  
which was about 70% cheaper than their renewal quote. 
Senior underwriters at Gresham told Mrs R that they had made a mistake in putting 
them on the Finer buildings insurance  policy and in charging  so much for the Finer 
contents policy.
Before our involvement, Gresham made an offer of settlement. This was to refund the 
difference between  what  Mr and Mrs R paid for their separate  policies and what  theyd have  
paid for a combined Finer  buildings and contents  insurance policy.  Interest was to be 
added for the time Mr and Mrs R were without that money. Gresham also offered an 
additional £100 compensation for the loss of expectation that arose from Mrs Rs 
discussions with the senior  underwriters. 
Mr and Mrs R rejected  this offer. They felt that the offer should reflect what they wouldve 
paid for separate Standard buildings  insurance  and Finer contents  insurance, adjusted for 
the difference in price between the new customer quote in 2017 and the renewal  quote.  
Gresham paid the refund of premium but has yet to pay the applicable interest.
Following our involvement, Gresham made an additional offer for the buildings  insurance. 
This offer was made as a gesture of goodwill, on the basis that Mr and Mrs R hadnt 
Ref: DRN76839612engaged with the price of the policy between 2007 and 2011. This offer had the effect of 
freezing the annual price of the buildings insurance  policy at the price that was paid in 2012. 
So, the offer was to refund the difference each  year,  from 2013  onwards, between what Mr 
and Mrs R actually paid and the 2012 price. Again, the offer included interest for the time 
they were without that money.
Mr and Mrs R rejected  this additional  offer. They maintained that the refund should reflect  
what they wouldve  paid for separate Standard buildings  insurance and Finer contents 
insurance, adjusted  for the difference in price  between the new customer quote in 2017 and 
their renewal quote. Mr and Mrs R have calculated that this would exceed the total of both 
the offers that Gresham has made.
Our investigator thought the offers made by Gresham were a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. Gresham  was unable to calculate with certainty what  the Standard  
buildings insurance  wouldve  cost each year, as it no longer holds sufficient data to do that. 
But assuming it was on average  50% less than the Finer buildings  insurance (an amount  
that Gresham said was generous  as the difference was unlikely to be so large),  Mr and 
Mrs R would be better off with the offers Gresham  has already made.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  and reiterated how they think  fair compensation should be 
calculated. As such, Ive been asked to make a decision on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Gresham  has treated Mr and 
Mrs R fairly  throughout  the period they held its insurance policies.
If I find that Gresham hasnt treated Mr and Mrs R fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what Gresham has offered is fair. Having 
done so, Ive decided that the offers Gresham has made are a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with this, so Ill 
explain why.
buildings insurance  offer
I should note that an insurer hasnt necessarily  done anything wrong by changing the 
premium at renewal  and there are often  risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But 
where an insurer knew, or ought  reasonably  to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging 
with the renewals process,  they should  have taken care to make sure they treated these  
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.
For the buildings insurance policy, Gresham has made an offer that effectively 
acknowledges that Mr and Mrs R didnt  engage  with the cost of the policy for many years. 
So, to ensure it didnt take advantage  of that, it has essentially frozen the annual cost of the 
policy at the 2012 price  and offered to refund any amount paid above this in subsequent 
years, with interest. I think that is a fair and reasonable offer, although I appreciate  this 
Ref: DRN76839613doesnt address  the specific point that Mr and Mrs R raised about the buildings insurance  
policy, which I will discuss below.
transferring to finer buildings insurance
I have decided not to make  a decision on whether or not Gresham did anything wrong when 
the insurance was transferred to it from another  underwriter. Or whether it shouldve  made  
Mr and Mrs R aware  that there  were  other,  potentially less expensive,  policies available.  This 
is because I dont think it would make any difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
I am satisfied that the offers made  by Gresham put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than 
they would  be in if the offers were  calculated based on them having separate  Standard 
buildings and Finer contents insurance policies.  
If Mr and Mrs R had been put on the Standard  buildings insurance, they would still have 
had separate  buildings and contents policies. So, they wouldnt have benefitted from the 
combined policy discount that was the basis of Greshams initial offer of settlement. Instead, 
the contents insurance price wouldve stayed at the original price  and would have  received  
no refund.
Gresham has calculated that, even if Standard  buildings insurance was on average 50% 
cheaper that Finer buildings insurance  (which it says is unlikely), then Mr and Mrs R are 
better off with the offer based on a combined Finer policy than if it was based on them  
having Standard buildings insurance. Ive checked this, and Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve paid slightly more for separate Standard buildings and Finer contents insurance  
than they wouldve paid for a combined  Finer buildings and contents policy.
Because of this, I think that the offer of a refund based on what  a combined Finer buildings 
and contents insurance policy wouldve cost is fair and reasonable. 
I dont accept Mr and Mrs Rs method of calculating the refund.  That is because  it effectively 
assumes that they would  receive the same new customer discount of almost 70% every year 
they had the policy. I dont  think thats realistic. New customer discounts can vary 
considerably depending on, for example, the competitiveness of the insurance  market at the 
time a quote  is obtained and an insurers appetite for new customers. 
Also, a new customer discount would only apply in the first year of the policy. After  that, the 
price would rise as that discount was recouped.  And Id expect the price  to then move in line 
with what Gresham considered fair in order to cover the risk being  insured, including  the 
costs of providing the policy, the expected cost of future claims and the profit  Gresham  was 
seeking. From what Ive seen, the price Mr and Mrs R were paying  each year reflected these 
things. So, I dont think that price was inherently  unfair.
In addition to this, the new customer quote  Mr and Mrs R obtained  in 2017 was for a new 
type of policy. This was branded Shaped  around  you and was only introduced  in 2015.  So, 
the pricing for the older Standard  buildings insurance policy would  have been  different. For 
these reasons, I dont  think  the new customer quote  obtained in 2017 for the Shaped 
around you buildings policy is a fair basis of calculating compensation in this case. 
Mr and Mrs R have highlighted another ombudsmans decision from 2015. But Im not 
persuaded that is relevant  here because Ive not seen anything to suggest the price of Mr 
Ref: DRN76839614and Mrs Rs policies was affected by the same issue that affected the price of the policy 
being complained about in that other  case.
comments of the senior  underwriters
The underwriters Mrs R spoke to provided  personal opinions about Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint. And agreed with her that Gresham had done something wrong. I appreciate that 
this may have created an expectation for Mr and Mrs R that Gresham  would uphold  the 
complaint and they would  get a refund  in line with what  theyve  since requested. But I dont 
think those underwriters were authorised to provide Greshams response to their complaint. 
And I think the offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable to recognise  the loss of 
expectation that this may have caused.
my final decision
My decision  is that the offers of settlement  already made by Gresham Insurance Company  
Limited are a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint.  As such,  I direct  Gresham 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs R the outstanding amounts in line with those 
offers:
£373.21 in respect  of the buildings insurance.
Interest at 8% simple per year on the above payment for the time Mr and Mrs R have 
been without that money.  *
Interest at 8% simple per year on the payment that has already been  made,  for the time 
Mr and Mrs R were without that money. *
If it hasnt  already been paid, pay Mr and Mrs R £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7683961