K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  led her to believe  it had 
reinstated her car insurance policy following  cancellation. Ms G was stopped  by policy  for 
driving uninsured  at the end of January  2019.
background
Ms Gs policy was due for automatic renewal  in December 2018. Admiral  wasnt able to 
collect the yearly premium as Ms Gs card details had expired. It wrote  to Ms G to tell her. 
And as it didnt hear from her it sent her a notice of cancellation. Admiral  cancelled Ms Gs 
policy on 25 December 2018.  
Ms G called Admiral on 5 January 2019.  She paid the balance she owed  for the number of 
days Admiral had insured  her from 3 December 2018 to the date it cancelled her policy. 
On 28 January 2019 Ms G was stopped by police for driving uninsured and her car was 
seized. She complained to Admiral. She said she was led to believe it had reinstated  her 
policy on 5 January 2019. Ms G is unhappy  that since  being stopped  by police, Admiral will 
no longer reinstate her cancelled policy. 
Admiral didnt uphold  Ms Gs complaint. It said it listened to the calls from 5 January 2019. 
Ms G had paid the balance she owed in any event under the cancelled policy.  Ms G had 
obtained a new quote online with Admiral  with different information. Admiral  had given Ms G 
the option to reinstate her existing policy and pay the balance  in 30 days time  or she could 
discuss the new online quote with Admirals sales department and consider setting up a new 
policy. Ms G didnt  reinstate her existing policy and didnt buy a new one. Admiral said it told 
Ms G her policy hadnt been reinstated. 
Ms G didnt agree, so she asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted  reasonably. 
Ms G didnt agree. Shes made a number of points  which I will address in my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Admiral provided Ms G with a note of two calls she had with it on 5 January 2019. I intend to 
cover the salient parts of the calls as Ms G has seen the transcript  and the investigator 
provided a detailed assessment in her view.
During the first call with agent V Ms G explained that she hadnt contacted Admiral about  
the renewal of her policy because she was dealing with family issues.  Ms G thought her 
policy had renewed.  She said her card details had changed but believed Admiral  would  have 
been able to collect the renewal premium anyway. 
Ref: DRN78565172Ms G has made a number  of comments about  this particular issue. I understand Ms G feels 
strongly that Admiral should have been able to collect the renewal premium another  way 
even though her card details that it held on record expired. And she believes Admiral should  
have done more to contact her  for example call or text her. 
As the investigator  explained, we look at whether  an insurer  acted reasonably or not. 
Admiral contacted Ms G by letter when it was unable to collect  the renewal premium to alert 
her to the problem. And it followed its cancellation process in line with the policy. So I dont 
think Admiral did anything  wrong  here. As Admiral  wrote to Ms G to tell her it hadnt  collected 
the yearly premium  and it subsequently wrote  to her to warn  that her policy  was at risk of 
being cancelled   I think the onus  was then on Ms G to contact Admiral to make payment 
and prevent her policy from being cancelled. It was Admirals letter confirming it had 
cancelled her policy that prompted  Ms Gs call on 5 January 2019.
Although Ms G contacted Admiral after her policy  cancelled, it agreed as a goodwill gesture 
to remove the cancellation  fee and reinstate her policy. Admiral told Ms G that she owed the 
balance for the days it insured her in any event. This was correct. Admiral explained that if 
Ms G wanted to reinstate her policy, she needed  to pay the amount she owed for the days  
she was insured under the cancelled  policy  on 5 January 2019  but Admiral wouldnt collect  
the balance for another 30 days. 
However, Ms G had obtained a quote online with Admiral  which  she said was for a lower 
premium. But the named  drivers and registered keeper of the car details were  different to the 
existing details Admiral  held for the cancelled policy. Agent V explained to Ms G that she 
couldnt price match  the quote with the new details  and reinstate her existing policy.  But she 
could reinstate the cancelled policy with the existing  details.  She said Ms G would  need  to 
speak to Admirals sales  department  if she wanted  to take up the new quote  instead. But 
irrespective of which option Ms G chose,  she owed the balance for the days  she was insured 
under the cancelled policy.
Ms G decided to pay the balance she owed under the cancelled  policy.  Agent V took her 
bank details for the payment. Ms G said she would get back to Admiral when shed decided  
whether to reinstate her existing policy  or take up a new one.
Ms G called back later that day and spoke to agent M. In this call Ms G said she thought  
shed reinstated  her existing policy. But M explained that the cancelled policy hadnt been 
reinstated and that Ms G had only paid for the days she was insured  before cancellation.  
Admirals call notes show that Ms G said she believed shed reinstated  her policy  as Admiral  
told her it would collect the premium at the end of the month. M explained that if Ms G 
wanted to reinstate her policy, Admiral could collect the balance premium  at the end of 
January 2019.  M also explained that Ms G could speak to its sales department  to discuss 
the new quote. Ms G said she would  call back. At the end of the call M said Ms G hadnt  
reinstated her policy but she could call back to do so if she wished. 
I understand that Ms G feels strongly  that Admiral led her to believe it had reinstated her 
policy. But from what Ive seen, I dont  think this was the case.  I think Admiral explained the 
options available to Ms G on 5 January  2019. Ms G wasnt sure whether to buy a new policy  
or reinstate her existing policy. I dont think Admiral  told Ms G that it had reinstated her 
cancelled policy. And it didnt provide Ms G with any documents  to show this was the case  
either. So because  Ms G didnt take up a new policy  or reinstate her cancelled one  she 
wasnt insured. 
Ref: DRN78565173Ms G has explained that her parents are vulnerable and she is their carer. Ms G has made  
reference to the Equality Act. However,  Ms G is the policyholder  - and in any event I havent 
seen anything to show that Admiral has discriminated against Ms G. 
I realise Ms G will be disappointed with my decision.  But I dont think Admiral  acted 
unreasonably. So this means I dont think its responsible for Ms G being uninsured when  
she was stopped by police on 28 January 2019. And this therefore also means that I dont 
think Admiral was obliged  to backdate the reinstatement of Ms Gs policy after this event.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856517