K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA), with RCI 
Financial Services Limited  was mis-represented to him.
 
background 
Mr H entered into a HPA with RCI Financial Services in March  2018 to acquire  an electric 
car. When he ordered the car it was quoted to have  a 235 mile range on a 40kw battery but 
Mr H says he understood this would not be in real world conditions and so asked a number 
of the dealers staff about the mileage  that could be achieved. He says he was given ranges 
from 150 to 187 miles  per full charge and that this was supported by the information 
available on the manufacturers website. Based on the information he received he says he 
decided to acquire  the car.
Mr H took delivery of the car but then immediately raised a concern about the range. The car 
was returned and tests carried out. Mr H was told there was nothing technically wrong with 
the car. Mr H says that the car was not suitable for motorway  driving  as the range  drops  
giving a range of only 100 to 110 miles. He also says that two weeks after acquisition the 
manufacturer updated the mileage guidelines  online to say the range can be as low as 100 
miles. He says that had he known the mileage range was so low when  driving above 50mph  
he would  not have acquired  the car.
In July, Mr H was given  the offer to return the car by the manufacturer subject to certain 
conditions which he did not accept at that time.
 
RCI Financial  Services  says that Mr H raised his concerns about  the cars range  with the 
dealership. The car was tested in adverse weather conditions  (although  I am not aware this 
took place on a motorway) and the range was found to be around 150 miles (which it says 
would be the worst  range  achievable). It says that diagnostics  were carried out and no faults  
were found.  It says Mr H then said that the car had run out of battery and it was arranged for 
the car to be investigated on 28 March 2018 but Mr H cancelled the appointment. It says 
there was no evidence that the car had been mis-sold.
Our investigator noted that RCI Financial Services  had not accepted that the car had been 
mis-sold. However it had said that Mr H could cancel his HPA due to the car not meeting his 
expectations as long as Mr H signed  a non-disclosure agreement  (NDA). She did not think it 
reasonable that Mr H was required  to sign a NDA and recommended  that he be allowed  to 
reject the car and have the payments he had made  to date refunded.
RCI Financial  Services  did not accept our investigators view. It said that it wanted to 
understand what evidence had been provided  to show the car had been mis-sold and 
referred to other decisions where  complaints had not been  upheld  in relation to the mileage 
range. It said the car had been  tested and no fault had been found.
RCI Financial  Services  said that the NDA was requested as it was allowing the car to be 
returned because  it did not meet his expectations.  It said it did not want  this offer to be 
misrepresented within  the wider  market place. It further said that as there was no fault with 
the car and Mr H had use of it he should not be refunded all of his payments. It confirmed 
that its offer to Mr H was to:
settle any outstanding finance  with RCI Financial Services Ltd; 
Ref: DRN70300002refund  Mr H his vehicle deposit; and
request Mr H sign an NDA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H acquired  a car through a HPA with RCI Financial Services. Under the relevant 
regulations, RCI Financial Services can be held liable if the car provided was not of 
satisfactory quality or if it was misrepresented.
In this case Mr H has not said that there is a fault with the car and tests  that have been  
carried out have  not found a fault. Mr H has said that the car was mis-sold due to the 
mileage range he was given. He says the actual mileage range for the driving he does is 
much lower  than he was told and that had he known this he would not have acquired  the car 
as it does not suit his needs.
Mr H has said that he understood the 235 mileage range  provided  when he acquired the car 
was not in real world  conditions and so he asked  for further information regarding  this. 
RCI Financial  Services  has provided information  that from January 2018 cars were sold 
using test results from two different testing systems and as such  the advertised range was 
168 to 235 miles. 
Mr H says he was told a mileage range of 150 to 187 miles was achievable  and was given 
examples of a journey including a dual carriage way. I accept that the mileage range was 
important to Mr H and that he asked questions about this. I also accept that based on the 
information he received he thought the car would achieve around a 150 to 187 mileage 
range.
In order for me to say that a misrepresentation has occurred I need  to be satisfied  that the 
car does  not have  a range  of 150 to 187 miles and that this information induced Mr H into 
acquiring the car. In this case I accept that the mileage  information was relied on by Mr H 
when deciding to acquire  the car. I have then considered whether I find the information  was 
incorrect.
Mr H says that he only achieves around  110 miles on full charge. He has noted that 75% of 
his commute to work is on the motorway and he finds that motorway  driving reduces the 
cars range. It is not clear  from the information  provided that Mr H asked specifically about 
the range  for motorway driving but given his interest in the mileage I accept that he asked 
about the range and as the lower end of this was 150 miles he should have been able to 
achieve this in any driving conditions (including motorway  driving).
Checks were carried  out and it has been explained  these took place in adverse  weather 
conditions which has a negative impact on the range. In the test Mr Hs car was found to 
have a mileage  of around 152. I do not have  further  details of the tests.  However based  on 
the testimony of Mr H and given  his actions in reporting the mileage range achieved I find it 
more likely than not that Mr Hs car is delivering a mileage range significantly lower  than the 
range he was told. As I accept  the mileage information induced Mr H into entering in the 
agreement I am satisfied that a misrepresentation has occurred.
Ref: DRN70300003Because of the above I think  the fair resolution  to this complaint is for Mr H to be able to 
return the car and have  his HPA cancelled as has been offered by RCI Financial Services. 
RCI Financial  Services  has also offered to refund Mr Hs deposit which  again  I find 
reasonable. Mr H has suggested that he may wish to discuss an exchange for a non-electric 
car. This can of course be discussed  but in order to resolve this complaint I find the return of 
the car and cancelling of the agreement to be fair. 
Mr H has been asked  to sign a NDA. I understand this request came from the manufacturer. 
As I find that a misrepresentation has occurred  I find the above  actions should be taken and 
do not consider  the NDA as a condition for this.
Our investigator also recommended that Mr H be refunded the payments he has made for 
the car. I do not require this to happen.  While I understand that Mr H says the car is not 
achieving the mileage he expected he has continued to have use of it. Because of this I find 
it reasonable that he is liable for the payments for the period he has had use. That said I 
accept that Mr H has received a loss of enjoyment due to his concerns about the cars range 
and so I think it fair that he is refunded  10% of his repayments to the date of settlement to 
reflect this. 
I also accept that this issue has caused Mr H trouble and upset. Mr H has had to return the 
car for tests and has spent time monitoring his mileage. Because of this I think it fair that 
Mr H is paid £100 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that RCI Financial Services Limited should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
2.cancel Mr Hs HPA with nothing  further  owing;
3.refund Mr Hs deposit;
4.refund  Mr H 10% of the payments he has made  under  the HPA because  of the loss 
of enjoyment he has experienced;
5.Pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused; and
6.Remove any adverse  information relating to the HPA from Mr Hs credit file.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
If RCI Financial  Services considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7030000