K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr A and Mrs A says Santander UK Plc (at the time, Abbey National) mis-sold them 
the MPPI.  
The mortgage was in joint names, but the MPPI only covered Mr A. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr A and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr A and Mrs A, 
so Ill explain the reasons  why. 
Mr A and Mrs A say that they were  told that they had to take out the MPPI as it was included 
in the mortgage  they also say that they werent  given any information and didnt sign any 
paperwork for the policy.
I cant be sure what was said to Mr A and Mrs A at the time  and they havent said much 
about why they were  led to feel this way. Santander  also isnt able to provide all the 
paperwork from the time. But I dont find either of these things unusual  businesses  arent 
required to keep records indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect Mr A and Mrs A to recall a 
meeting that took place nearly 15 years ago. 
Santander has shown  that the paperwork that was in use at the time presented the policy as 
an optional product, and a separate application  wouldve needed  to have been completed in 
order for the policy to be set up. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Santander  did 
anything differently when it sold the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs A.
Santander has also provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr A, at his address at the 
time, confirming that the policy had been set up and asking him to check that he was happy 
with it. Santander  has also confirmed that the policy was cancelled  only five months  after 
being set up.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Santander made it clear that Mr A and 
Mrs A didnt have to take out the MPPI  and that they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr A and Mrs A so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example Mr A affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr A and Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN74863112It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr A and 
Mrs A.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr A and Mrs A because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A and Mrs A about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr A and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A and Mrs A have said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr A and Mrs A any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr A and Mrs 
A any extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr A and Mrs A the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr A and Mrs A 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr A and Mrs A.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr A and Mrs A any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Ref: DRN74863113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7486311