K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way a claim under his home insurance policy  for an escape of 
water was handled by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr S made a claim to RSA for damage caused by an escape of water in his main bathroom 
in August 2016. RSA accepted the claim. It dried  the property and then carried out repairs. 
The repairs  were finished in December 2016.
A few months later it was found that RSAs contractor had cut an underfloor pipe. The joint 
fractured and there was an even  worse water leak. RSA treated that as a second  claim and 
carried out repairs. Those repairs were finished  in March 2018.
Mr S complained to RSA that:
hed slept  on a camp bed on the floor for 300 nights;
his wife and son had slept in rooms  stacked high with belongings;
they went long periods without water  and heating;
they were without  bath/shower  facilities  for at least six weeks;
the entire  area of his home  reduced to a building site; and
hed suffered  constant unrelenting stress  and anxiety.
RSA said that it had offered alternative accommodation as soon as it became aware Mr S 
was sleeping on the floor but he hadnt wanted this for health reasons. It paid him a 
disturbance allowance of £3,000 and £1,000 compensation  for the trouble  and upset it had 
caused him.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Hes also unhappy that a second  claim has been 
logged against  him. Our investigator  thought RSA should pay Mr S a further £1,000 
compensation for trouble  and upset. RSA confirmed that the second claim wasnt impacting 
Mr Ss premiums. It also wrote a letter confirm ing that the second  claim had been  logged in 
error and related to the previous claim,  in case any future insurers  required this.
As Mr S didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and his family have  undoubtedly had an awful time as a result  of the failings of RSAs 
contractors when working on the original escape of water  claim. The repairs  and upheaval 
for the second  lot of damage lasted about  a year during which Mr S and his family were 
living in very difficult conditions.
However I note that RSA offered Mr S alternative accommodation in April 2017 when he told 
it that his water had been turned off temporarily.  It renewed that offer in August 2017 when it 
learned that he was sleeping  on his living room floor. Although  no-one likes to leave their 
own home, in my view much of the physical discomfort Mr S and his family  suffered during 
this period could  have  been avoided if theyd been staying elsewhere for the duration of the 
works.
Ref: DRN78869692Its clear that RSA hasnt  handled the claim well - otherwise the second set of repairs 
wouldnt have been necessary. It has already offered compensation of £1,000 for its failings. 
After taking everything into account, although I appreciate this is less than Mr S was hoping  
for, I consider that RSA should pay a further £1,000  for the trouble and upset Mr S suffered. 
RSA shouldnt have  recorded the damage caused by its poor workmanship as a second 
claim. It should ensure the records on any external claims database correctly reflect that it 
was all one claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay a further 
£1,000 compensation to Mr S and to ensure the records  on any external claims database 
correctly reflect that there  was only one claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7886969