K821x#15Complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1993. 
AXA France  IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility  for this sale.  So, in my decision,  
Ill just refer to AXA as the seller.  Miss C says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  They  said that Miss C was suffering with a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) that she wouldnt have been able to claim for, which  meant 
the PPI was less useful  to her. 
Since the adjudicator felt AXA hadnt made  the relevant policy  terms clear  to Miss C at the time of 
the sale, and they would have made  a difference to Miss Cs decision to take the PPI, they 
essentially asked AXA to compensate Miss C for the premiums  shed  paid, plus interest.
AXA initially  accepted the adjudicators findings  and we closed the case. Soon after that, AXA said 
it had made  a mistake  and that, in fact, it wanted to appeal  against the adjudicators  findings.  The 
case was passed  to me to review afresh. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I believe the policy terms likely meant Miss C wouldnt have been able to claim for her PEMC. And 
I havent seen  enough evidence to show AXA brought  the relevant policy terms to Miss Cs 
attention at the time of the sale as it should have.
I think AXAs failings significantly affected Miss Cs decision to take the PPI. I say that because  
shes told us her PEMC was long-standing  and unstable and affected her daily life  despite  her 
following various treatment plans. Only more recently had it become more controlled.  Ive no 
reason to doubt what shes  said and I think the condition would have been a major  perhaps even 
the main  factor in her deciding whether or not to go ahead with the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Miss Cs lost out because of how AXA sold her the 
PPI. That being  the case, I believe it should put things  right for her as explained below.
Putting things  right  
AXA should  put Miss C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A.AXA should find out how much Miss C would  have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN76586822AXA should  then refund the difference between what Miss C owed when  she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss C made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.AXA should add simple interest  on the difference between what Miss C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  AXA works  out what Miss C would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss C paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss C paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Miss C would  have owed AXA something  on her store card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Miss C what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give Miss C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding this complaint. I require AXA France  IARD to put things right 
for Miss C as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7658682