K820x#14complaint
Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold him and his late wife a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
In 2010, Mr B and the late Mrs B were  sold an MPPI  policy to protect their repayments 
on their joint mortgage. The MPPI  provided  cover for Mr B only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  He said they were led to believe that life 
cover was included  and they only needed sickness cover. He also said they were  told 
they needed PP because  they were taking out a mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen Mr B and the late Mrs Bs mortgage  paperwork from the time of sale.  They ticked  
the box and signed the form to say they wanted PPI cover  for Mr B only.  The mortgage 
application form had an equally prominent  box they couldve selected to decline PPI. They  
also signed and completed a separate  PPI application. On this form they signed  to say they 
had not been given  advice and had decided to apply for PPI, but not life assurance  or 
home insurance cover. So, I think PPI was added  because Mr and Mrs B said they wanted 
it, having been told they didnt have to have PPI. I think they wouldve probably  understood 
that PPI was an optional and separate  product,  having declined other cover.
Mr B said that they were  led to believe that life cover was included in the PPI premium. 
However, I think its clear from the PPI application  that they declined life insurance cover.  
So, I cant see that RBS misled them about this.
The MPPI wasnt recommended to Mr and Mrs B. So, RBS didnt have  to consider whether 
it was suitable  for them, but it did need to give them enough fair and clear  information  
about the PPI so they could decide  for themselves if it was right for their circumstances 
and they wanted to buy it. Looking at their circumstances at the time, PPI doesnt  look 
inappropriate for their needs  and I cant see that having better  information  about it wouldve 
led them  not to take out the policy. I say this because:
-Mr B was eligible  for the MPPI. Mr Bs salary was about  90% of their joint income.  
So, it doesnt look inappropriate  that the cover was taken out in Mr Bs name only.  If 
he was out of work it wouldve  likely  had a much greater impact on their ability to 
meet their mortgage repayments 
- It doesnt  seem Mr B was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the MPPI. He had a pre-existing medical  condition, but it seems  this was still covered 
under the policy.
Ref: DRN73117422- Mr B said he wouldve got around  three  months worth of sick pay through work if 
he was off through accident or sickness. The MPPI  wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months. And it wouldve also paid out for this long if he lost his job. This wouldve 
allowed them to use his employer benefits to cover their other living  expenses.
- Mr B said he also had some savings at the time; around six months worth of 
pay. The MPPI wouldve allowed them to keep these savings intact to meet other  
household expenses if Mr B wasnt working.
- Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a significant  and long term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up 
with the repayments couldve been  serious  for them. I think having the security  
that the repayments  wouldve been  made  if Mr B was unable to work  wouldve 
been important  to them.
- Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B at the 
time. And as the policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have 
amended or cancelled  the policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like PPI wouldve  been  useful  for them  if something  went  
wrong. So I dont think having  better information  about the MPPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint against  The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7311742