K822xcomplaint
Mr Bs unhappy about the way his Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) account 
was handled.  
background 
Mr B transferred a balance to Barclays as it was offering  a 0% interest deal. The interest on 
purchases he made took him just over his credit limit. Even  so Barclays agreed not to 
remove the offer. There were also two fraudulent transactions  on the account which were 
returned. Mr B says he wanted to pay off the whole balance on his account  with money 
provided by his mother. But he was told that while the fraudulent  transactions  were being 
returned he wouldnt be able to do so and then there  was a delay in this happening.  As a 
result he says his mothers money was used for something else.  Mr B then said he couldnt 
pay off the amount owed and agreed  a default  could  be entered. 
Mr B says that Barclays shouldve identified him as a vulnerable customer and if it had stuck 
to the time line it first indicated he would have been  able to pay off the debt using his 
mothers money and wouldnt have had to enter a default arrangement.  Mr B is also unhappy  
about poor service  he says he received  on a number  of occasions and that he was given 
incorrect information. He says hes been  caused  anxiety, stress  and personal and health 
issues. He wants substantial compensation or the balance owed to be cleared.
Barclays said in its final response that Mr B was advised to wait until the balance  relating to 
the fraudulent  transactions had transferred before  making his full payment and closing his 
account. To say sorry for the inconvenience and frustration this had caused it has credited 
his account with a total of £150.  This comprises £50 for the delay in transferring the balance,  
£50 for the incorrect advice and £50 as information  hadnt been made clear.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said:
Barclays shouldve taken more  care to notice Mr Bs situation and shouldve 
recognised him as a vulnerable customer much earlier than its done.
Poor service  was given in some calls and Mr B was given incorrect information.  This 
caused him health issues. Barclays  promised  to send him a new statement but it 
assumed only a copy was requested. Mr B says he wanted to pay off the whole 
balance but he was told he couldnt  pay towards  the account  until the duplicate 
statement had been sorted out. It isnt clear if this meant  he couldnt pay off some of 
what was owed.  Mr B says he had the money to pay the whole balance  but because  
of the delay it was used for an emergency. But the fact his mother had money  isnt 
evidence the debt wouldve been  paid off not least as it was used  for an emergency. 
Barclays failure to clarify  things  caused Mr B some distress. 
Barclays has attempted to put things right by paying Mr B £150. But that isnt enough 
for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Barclays  should now pay Mr B 
another £500 taking the total to £650.  But he isnt recommending Barclays  should  
clear Mr Bs balance or remove the default  as there  werent any factual  errors  in what  
was reported.
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says the 
recommended compensation isnt enough.  He wants much more. He was unambiguously 
Ref: DRN76834102told he couldnt pay off any of the balance.  This was a factual error and if he couldve paid he 
wouldnt have a default recorded against him. It should be removed from his credit  file.
Barclays agrees to pay Mr B an additional  £500. It says a short  term vulnerability marker  
was added to the account but more couldve  been  done to recognise Mr Bs issues  and 
clearly mark them on his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are now the main issues.
Its clear that Barclays couldve dealt with Mr B better on occasions. For example it gave him 
some incorrect information, didnt make entirely clear whether he could pay off some of his 
balance and delayed  a balance transfer. It also couldve  also done  more to recognise  and 
respond to Mr Bs vulnerability.
Barclays has accepted  it couldve  done better and its agreed to pay a total of £650 
compensation to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.  Mr B says this 
isnt enough. He would like his balance cleared or a significantly greater and substantial 
payment of compensation.
So what  I must consider  is whether a payment of £650 compensation is fair and reasonable  
or whether, as Mr B would  like, he should  be awarded different or additional redress.
Barclays failings and poor service undoubtedly  caused Mr B some distress and 
inconvenience. It also failed to adequately take account of his personal circumstances and 
recorded vulnerability which likely added to his level of distress.
I think this warrants an award  of compensation. Taking everything into account,  including the 
level of awards we make, I agree with the investigator that a payment of a total of £650 
compensation for this is fair. 
But I dont think I can reasonably require Barclays to clear Mr Bs account balance  as hed 
like. Even  so if he accepts  my final decision,  it will be possible for Mr B to ask Barclays to 
credit this compensation towards his outstanding account balance  if he wishes to do so.
Mr B also says he was effectively deprived  of the opportunity  to pay off his balance by what  
Barclays did. But I cannot say on balance that this was definitely the case.  Mr B says he was 
going to use money  provided by his mother to pay off the balance.  But theres nothing to 
show this wouldve definitely happened  if the delay hadnt occurred or that whatever 
happened this money wouldve been  available to him especially as it was apparently used 
for an emergency.
Barclays has an obligation  to record correct information about the conduct of Mr Bs account  
with the credit reference agencies and on his credit  file. I believe its done so here. He says 
his account wouldnt  have been defaulted  if there  hadnt been the delay  as he wouldve used 
Ref: DRN76834103his mothers money to pay off the balance. But as Ive already said above that isnt 
something we can ever know wouldve definitely  happened.  
Mr Bs account was defaulted and that has been  recorded accurately by Barclays.  I dont 
therefore think I can reasonably require Barclays to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file 
as hed like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs frustration and strength of feeling  I think  the 
adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint  is fair and reasonable. And I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
should, if it hasnt  done so already, pay Mr B a total of £650 compensation.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7683410