K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  (BHL)  has refused  to accept responsibility for faulty 
goods he bought using  credit it provided.  
background
Mr C bought a new caravan  in March 2016, using finance provided  by BHL. He was to pay 
£116.51 a month for ten years before the caravan became his outright.
About two years later Mr C noticed a crack over a wheel arch. He contacted the dealer  that 
sold him the caravan and it was quickly agreed  that a repair  would be carried out by the 
manufacturer of the van.
Mr C was unhappy with the quality of the repairs and said extra  damage  had been  caused 
during the process.
The manufacturer said it would look at the van again. Mr C said he was going to have the 
van independently inspected. He did that, and instead of allowing the manufacturer  to re-visit 
the repairs complained to BHL, and asked it to sort things out for him.
BHL looked  at what had happened. It said that it wanted some  evidence that the fault was 
present when Mr C bought the caravan, and the repairs done before  BHL knew  there was a 
potential problem had removed any evidence that might have been present. It said in those 
circumstances it wouldnt accept responsibility for the quality of the caravan when it was 
supplied to Mr C. It went on to say that as it wasnt accepting responsibility for the fault, 
neither would it accept  responsibility for the quality of the repairs.
Mr C didnt think BHL had dealt with his request fairly, so brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  She thought that without 
evidence that the crack  was present or developing when  Mr C bought the caravan BHLs 
response was fair. 
Mr C remains  unhappy so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, although  for somewhat different reasons.
I realise this will disappoint Mr C so Ill explain my thinking.
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. BHL remains the owner of the goods 
supplied under this agreement  until the final payment is made, and as such is responsible  for 
a complaint about the quality.
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) is of particular  relevance to this complaint. It says under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory.
Ref: DRN70164062The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the goods,  the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability. These can all be aspects of the quality  of goods.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform  to the contract. 
The CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer in these cases.
There are three main remedies.  These are:
 
(a) the short-term right to reject; 
(b) the right to repair or replacement; and
(c) the right to a price  reduction or the final right to reject.
So when deciding what  is fair and reasonable in this case  I have thought  about whether  the 
goods were satisfactory.
Firstly Id say that, as Mr C didnt ask to reject the caravan in the short term (which  I think  is 
weeks or months not years (a) doesnt  apply.
Turning to point  (b), I think a new caravan should be free of defects when supplied. And I 
think it reasonable that it should stay that way for some time.  Id consider a crack  appearing 
for no apparent reason  a couple of years  after purchase a defect: unless Mr Cs damaged 
the caravan in some way, I cant see why a crack  should appear in the body work  where  it 
did. So I think it possible there  was a defect  or one was developing  when Mr C bought  
the caravan. That means there  has been  a breach of contract, and I think  BHL is responsible 
for remedying that defect.
I think that means Mr C is entitled to have the caravan repaired. Thats been done by the 
manufacturer. And I think  thats the extent of BHLs  responsibility, given this was a fault that 
was repairable  and, once repaired, wouldnt affect  the long term use of the caravan. I dont 
think it means Mr C is entitled to return the caravan  and have BHL unwind his credit  
agreement.
I appreciate Mr C isnt happy with some aspects of the repair,  but the original  fault hes 
complained about  the crack  has been  repaired.  And the issues hes described seem  
mainly cosmetic. I accept  that Mr C thinks the replaced windows might leak, but theres no 
evidence that they have.  I wouldnt  ask BHL to fix things that havent  gone wrong.
Im also aware that the manufacturer has offered to rectify anything outstanding/of  poor 
quality. That was in July 2018, and Mr C didnt  take up that offer. Im going to leave it with 
him whether to take up that offer if its still open.
Mr C has recently  said he wants  to return  the caravan. He can do this, but hell have to talk 
to BHL about doing that on a voluntary basis, as his agreement  allows.  
I realise this will disappoint Mr C but Im not going to ask BHL to do more than it has.
Ref: DRN70164063my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7016406