K821x#15complaint
Miss Z is unhappy with the settlement Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G) has offered 
for a home insurance claim she made for theft at her property. 
background
 
There has been extensive background to this complaint  which I wont repeat in full detail 
here. The key points are that Miss Z made  a claim to L&G about a theft at her property in 
April 2017. She reported  damage to her building  and contents as well as some items of 
contents which had been stolen.
After visiting the property (through a loss adjuster and surveyor)  and reviewing the police 
report, L&G accepted the claim. But it said that some of the reported damage  wasnt 
consistent with the insured event. It said this damage was likely to be normal  wear  and tear. 
So L&G offered to pay 50% of each of the claims for damage (buildings  and contents) and 
100% of the stolen contents.  It also offered Miss Z £300 for delays and service issues during 
her claim.
Miss Z brought her complaint to our service. It was looked at by one of our investigators,  
who didnt think L&Gs decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She agreed 
that some  of the damage to the buildings was likely to be wear  and tear, so she thought the 
offer to pay 50% of the buildings  claim was fair. But she didnt think  there  was enough  
evidence to suggest that the damage  to the contents wasnt  caused by the burglars. Our 
investigator recommended that L&G should  pay 100% of the contents claim for both 
damaged and stolen items. She agreed  there had been service  issues, but overall felt the 
£300 offered by L&G was fair.
Neither Miss Z nor L&G agreed with our investigators recommendations. So because no 
agreement has been reached,  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Miss Z has suffered a loss as a result  of an insured event  isnt in dispute. The 
issue I need to decide is whether L&Gs offer of settlement is in line with the policy terms and 
whether it is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
damaged buildings claim
Miss Z is claiming  for damage to some of the walls, floors, skirting  boards, doors  and kitchen 
units in her property. There are scratches,  scuff marks and chips  which she says were 
caused by the burglars  during the theft.
L&G says its loss adjuster  and surveyor  visited Miss Zs property and found some of the 
damage inconsistent  with that usually present following a break in. They said some  of the 
damage would be more consistent  with general wear and tear. They  also noted that Miss Z 
had provided quotes  for repairs/replacement of items not damaged,  such as ceilings or 
undamaged kitchen units/accessories.
Ref: DRN78544802Based on the reports completed by its loss adjuster and surveyor L&G said it was prepared 
to offer 50% of the value of the damage to the buildings. This was on the basis that neither  it 
nor Miss Z could  prove which damage, if any, was wear and tear and which was caused 
during the theft.
Miss Z doesnt accept  that this offer is fair. She says she redecorated shortly before her child 
was born and that her property was in pristine  condition before the theft.  She also pointed 
out that the surveyor didnt visit until eight months  after the theft.
Ive carefully considered  the evidence put forward by both sides.  I appreciate  Miss Zs point 
that she redecorated not long before her child was born. But that was around  two years 
before the theft. In properties lived in by families and pets its not unusual  for things like walls 
and floors to get scuffed  and scratched during everyday life. So while I appreciate  that the 
burglars are likely to have  caused damage to the fabric  of Miss Zs building, I agree with 
L&G that some of the damage is more likely to be as a result of normal wear  and tear.
Based on the evidence  available its not possible to say with any certainty  which damage 
was theft related and which is wear and tear. So in the circumstances I think  L&Gs offer to 
pay 50% of the cost of the building  repairs is fair and reasonable.
However, given the time that has passed its reasonable to assume that the cost of these 
repairs will have increased. So before the settlement is paid L&G should  have  the offer 
recalculated in line with current prices.
damaged contents  claim
Miss Z is claiming  for damage to multiple items of contents such  as wardrobes,  chest of 
drawers, bed frames,  tables and more. She says these items have been broken, scratched, 
chipped and/or dented  by the burglars during the theft.
L&G says that, similar to the buildings element of the claim, some  of the damage is more 
consistent with general  wear and tear. So it has again offered to pay 50% of the cost of 
repairs/replacement for damaged contents.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided. And while  Im 
persuaded that, on balance, some of the damage  to the buildings  was likely general  wear 
and tear, I dont think its fair to say the same is true of the contents.  Ill explain why.
Looking at the pictures of the property  following  the burglary, its clear that wardrobes and 
chest of drawers  were ransacked and contents  were  strewn all over the property. Its 
reasonable to assume that the burglars took minimal  care when accessing items of furniture 
in search of valuables.  And although  I think that walls and floors are likely to be scratched or 
scuffed during everyday life, I think the damage caused to the furniture Ive seen seems  
more consistent  with being  roughly handled.
L&G accepts  that Miss Z suffered an insured event. Miss Z has shown that her contents  
were strewn  all over her house  and that many  items  are damaged. So on balance, I think its 
more likely than not that the vast majority, if not all, of the contents were damaged during the 
theft.
Ref: DRN78544803It follows that I think L&G should cover 100% of the damaged contents. And as with the 
buildings claim,  the amounts should  first be recalculated to take into account the increase in 
prices over time as Miss Zs policy provides new for old cover.
stolen contents  claim
L&G has agreed to cover 100% of the stolen contents, subject to policy  limits for high value 
or high risk items. It has also calculated the cash  value  of certain items based on how much  
it will cost it to replace them through its network  of approved suppliers. I think  this offer is in 
line with the policy terms and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
service and delays
Miss Z is unhappy with how long the claim has taken to resolve  and with communications  
from certain agents of L&G. She doesnt agree that the £300  L&G offered as compensation 
for this is sufficient.
Having reviewed the claim history, I dont think the majority of the delays were  unreasonable. 
L&G were  waiting for the police report before progressing  matters, and following receipt 
instructed a surveyor to visit the property. L&G were entitled to do both of those things 
before confirming acceptance of the claim. 
I agree  the claim hasnt  always moved as quickly as it couldve done at times. But I dont  
think this is solely down  to L&G as there  were  occasions where Miss Z didnt respond to 
information requests  as quickly as I think she could have. Overall  I think  the claim 
progressed broadly as it should have. And where  it didnt, I think the £300 L&G has offered 
is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Ive thought about whether additional compensation should be awarded due to the fact that 
Ive decided L&Gs offer of settlement  for the claim was unfair.  However, this service  
wouldnt generally award compensation for trouble and upset for this. Instead Miss Z is 
entitled to 8% interest on the settlement, which compensates her for the being  without  the 
settlement monies  up until now. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Miss Zs complaint against Legal  and General Insurance  
Limited in part.
Legal and General Insurance  Limited  should:
recalculate the cost of repairs for the buildings claim  as at the date of this decision 
and in line with the terms of the policy  and pay Miss Z 50% of that amount
recalculate the cost of repairs/replacements for the contents claim, as at the date of 
this decision, and pay Miss Z 100% of that amount  subject to policy  terms such as 
the high risk item limit
interest should be added to the above  amounts  at 8% simple per annum from the 
date the claim was first accepted until the date settlement is paid 
pay Miss Z the £300  compensation it offered  if it hasnt  done  so already
Ref: DRN78544804Legal and General Insurance  Limited  must pay this compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Miss Z accepts my final decision. If it pays later it must interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Legal and General Insurance  Limited  considers that it is required by HM Revenue  and 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss Z how much its taken 
off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7854480