K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc has offered him in 
settlement of an insurance claim he made  for two burglaries at his property.
background 
 
Mr H held a Home Insurance  policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
(RSA). 
In 2017 Mr H suffered  a burglary at his property.  The glass  in the door and a window of the 
garage building were smashed and a gun cabinet/safe  which was secured to the wall  
was stolen. The gun cabinet contained a rifle and a Rolex watch.
A few days  later, Mr H suffered a second burglary to the same building.  The window and 
door had been  boarded up after the first incident,  but the thieves got in a second time 
through the temporary boarding. This time several  pieces of garden machinery were stolen 
including a chainsaw and hedge trimmer.
The two burglaries were  reported to RSA and the police separately. RSA appointed a loss 
adjuster to attend Mr Hs property and assess the claim. The loss adjuster  stated  that at the 
time of their visit, the residential property  had been demolished.  But according to Mr H, it 
was standing on the dates of loss. The garage  building  which was the site of the burglary  
was still standing when  the loss adjuster attended.
The loss adjuster found that Mr H hadnt been living on the site at the time of the burglary, 
which it said put the items stored  in the garage  building at considerably  more  risk. It said 
Mr H hadnt notified  RSA that he was no longer living on site. It suggested that two claims 
should be set up because there  were  two dates of loss. It referred the claim to the 
underwriters for consideration.
After reviewing Mr Hs claims, RSA decided that his cover was valid.  But it said that a £5,000 
policy limit applied to theft from a garage/outbuilding. It also said that the policy contained  an 
endorsement for Mr Hs watch which meant  it needed to be kept in a safe. It said Mr Hs gun 
cabinet was not a proper  safe, so it wouldnt  cover  the theft of the watch.  It offered a cash 
settlement of £3,741 net of the policy excess, which was £100. This included  average costs  
it calculated for the lost garden tools.
Mr H didnt agree with RSAs view that his gun cabinet wasnt a safe.  He said it was 
reinforced with steel plates and fixed to the wall. He said it clearly didnt fail as the thieves 
couldnt get into it  which is why they took the whole safe. He also felt he should  receive  the 
full retail value for the garden tools.
Mr H also disagreed that the £5,000  limit for garages and outbuildings should apply. He said 
the building  was constructed to the same specification as the residential property, including  
having a normal  front door and window,  rather than a garage door. He said it was an annex 
to the property not a garage/outbuilding.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service where  it was looked at by one of our investigators.  
After reviewing the available information  our investigator issued his assessment.  He thought 
that because there  had been two losses, there should be two claim limits. But he agreed that 
the limit should be £5,000 for each claim as the theft took place  in a garage/outbuilding.  
Ref: DRN74272192For the first claim our investigator didnt think it made a difference  whether Mr Hs gun 
cabinet could  be classed as safe,  because the value  of the rifle inside it exceeded the 
£5,000 outbuildings limit  which he agreed was the maximum liability for the claim. So he 
thought RSA should settle the first claim by paying £5,000, minus the policy  excess. 
For the second claim he said RSA hadnt  offered to replace the tools, so he didnt think it 
was fair for it to use average costs  when calculating a cash  settlement. He thought  RSA 
should pay the amount it would cost Mr H to replace them,  which he said was £1,700 (minus 
one policy  excess). Our investigator recommended RSA should  pay 8% interest on each 
settlement from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
RSA said it would accept  our investigators assessment, but Mr H didnt. He provided a 
technical drawing  of the property layout to illustrate that he felt the garage/outbuilding limit 
shouldnt apply. At this stage a different investigator  had taken over responsibility  for Mr Hs 
complaint. She wrote to Mr H to explain that the drawing didnt change her opinion   which 
was the same as the initial investigators   namely  that the building  that was burgled  was a 
garage/outbuilding.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the building isnt a garage; it was a purpose built bungalow. He 
felt the full policy limit should apply. He also said that RSA hadnt  told him why his gun 
cabinet didnt  meet its definition/specification of a safe.
Our investigator responded and explained that she didnt feel the building was a residential 
property. She said there was no evidence that it was built for that purpose or that Mr H had 
the appropriate planning permission to do so. She reiterated that she felt it was fair for RSA 
to apply the £5,000  limit for each claim.
Mr H still didnt agree. He said that as there  are two claims the policy  limit should be 
doubled. He reiterated that the limits  he thought  should apply were the maximum value for 
all items in home, and maximum  value  for one item  not the garage/outbuildings  limit.
Our investigator spoke  with Mr H and advised  that her view remained unchanged. So 
because no agreement has been reached  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised  several issues for our service to decide, such as whether  it is reasonable for 
RSA to state that his gun cabinet  isnt a safe. Ive thought very carefully about all of Mr Hs 
arguments and questions,  but I wont specifically address or answer all of them in this 
decision. Instead Ill focus on what I believe to be the key issues material to the outcome  of 
his complaint. 
From what  Ive seen RSA has accepted Mr Hs claims and is prepared to offer settlement. 
The issue  that remains in dispute is whether it is fair and reasonable for RSA to apply the 
£5,000 limit for garage/outbuildings to each of the two claims. So, in my view, the key to 
Mr Hs complaint is whether or not the building that was burgled should  be classed as a 
garage/outbuilding  as described in his policy. And based on everything Ive seen, I think  it 
should. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Ref: DRN74272193At the time of the loss there  were  two separate buildings on the site. According  to the 
information Ive seen, they were  both built to similar  specifications,  but only one was used as 
a residential property. Mr H says that both buildings were planned to be part of a larger  
property eventually, and he has provided  a technical drawing to show  what  the larger 
property wouldve looked like.
The statement  of fact for Mr Hs policy says that the building insured is a two bedroom, 
detached bungalow built in 2014.  As there seem to have been two buildings  on the site, at 
the time of loss, that could  potentially  meet this description, the policy  is unclear as to which  
is the main building. However, as the buildings were totally separate at the time of the loss, I 
think its fair to say that only one of them could be the main building  insured under  the policy.  
This means  that the second building was, by default, an outbuilding.
As I understand it, the building  that has now been  demolished was the only building  
decorated to a liveable standard. The building that the thefts occurred in was used for 
storage and hadnt been lived in. 
As only one of the buildings had been  converted  and decorated  as a living  space, and only 
that building  had ever been  lived in by Mr H, I think its reasonable for RSA to class that 
building as the main building  (the detached  two bedroom bungalow) insured under the 
policy. It therefore follows that I also think its reasonable for RSA to class the second 
building as an outbuilding/garage,  and to apply the £5,000 limit to each of Mr Hs claims.
As RSAs maximum liability for each of the claims is £5,000, I dont need to decide  whether 
Mr Hs gun cabinet could  be classed as a safe .This is because the value of the cabinet and 
rifle that were stolen  significantly exceed  £5,000  which is the maximum I can hold RSA 
responsible for under  the terms of the policy. 
Our investigator thought that RSA should  pay £5,000 (minus one policy  excess) to settle the 
first claim. But I think the excess  for the first claim should be taken from the value of the 
items stolen,  before  that amount is reduced to the policy limit  so that Mr H gets the full 
benefit of the limit. In other words I think RSA should  pay up to the £5,000  limit to settle  the 
first claim.
As I understand it, RSA has already paid Mr H £3,741 (net of one policy excess).  RSA has 
confirmed that the £5,000 policy limit for theft from a garage/outbuilding  only applies to 
Mr Hs contents insurance. So the settlement of the first claim should  be the difference  
between the amount it has already  paid,  and the £5,000 limit. This settlement shouldnt 
include any amounts  RSA has paid toward repairs of the building  which  should be 
assessed under the buildings section of Mr Hs policy.
For the second claim, our investigator  thought  that RSA should  pay £1,600 net of the policy  
excess. This was because RSA hadnt  offered to replace the items stolen  so he thought a 
fair settlement would be the amount it would cost Mr H to replace the items (£1,700). From 
what Ive seen, neither  Mr H nor RSA has disagreed  with our investigators view on this 
matter. So in the circumstances I see no reason to depart  from his recommendation.
Ref: DRN74272194my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should:
pay the difference between the amount already paid and the £5,000  limit to settle the 
first claim 
 
pay £1,600  (net of the £100 excess) to settle  the second claim
pay interest on these settlements at 8% simple* per year from the respective dates of 
loss to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take off tax from 
this interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must give Mr H a certificate  showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7427219