K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank PLC, TSB at the time,  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Due to the length of time thats passed,  it is not clear when Mr T took out PPI and how the 
PPI was sold to him. As our adjudicator said, there is evidence  to show that Mr T had the PPI 
in January 2000, so Mr T must have bought the policy  somewhere  between first taking out 
the cards  in March  1994, and the date PPI first showed on his statements in January 2000.   
Mr T has told us in 1994 he was employed  as an operations consultant. He has told us he 
was entitled to less than three months  worth of sick pay. Mr T also says he wouldve also 
been entitled to redundancy pay and death  in service. Mr T has said he suffered from a 
medical condition  prior to the sale of the policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ts credit  card balances in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it wouldve cost no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly  
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the credit  card accounts had both closed by April 2008.   
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ts representative  says:
Lloyds failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr T wouldnt have taken out 
the policy  and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ts representatives  believe there to 
be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Lloyds should have told 
Mr T about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Lloyds should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr T and the impact they 
would have  had on his chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Mr T received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN77669332Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
This sale took place  somewhere  between 1994  January 2000 before the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its code of practice in June 2000 and before 
the sale of general  insurance products like this became regulated  in January 2005. So, the 
GISC Code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements concluded by April 2008. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN77669333other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ts case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what determination 
the relevant former scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  might  have 
been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under the Banking 
Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide complaints by 
reference to what  was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  and that the 
Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of law or relevant  judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ts complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in particular, 
whether the policy was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs  and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr T sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr T suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr T says the PPI was just included in the package.  But due to the length  of time thats 
passed there are no longer any documents from the sale of the policy.  So, I have to consider  
what both parties have said to come  to a decision on what I think is more  likely to have 
happened at the time the PPI was sold. 
Ref: DRN77669334Lloyds have supplied  a copy of a sample  application  form which it says wouldve been  used  
in and around 1994, when  Mr T took out his credit  cards. And without any evidence to the 
contrary I think this is likely to have been the same, or at least similar to, the form Mr T 
completed when  taking out the cards. I dont know if Mr T was sold PPI at the point he took 
out his credit cards, but I have seen that this type of application form wouldve  given  Mr T the 
option to accept or decline  PPI. So, I think Mr T wouldve known the PPI was an optional  
product at the time he took out the cards. 
While I dont doubt what Mr T has said are his honest recollections of the sale, the sale took 
place somewhere between 1994  and 2000, which is a long time ago, and his evidence is not 
enough on its own to make me think its more likely that Mr T wasnt  given a choice about 
the PPI or he didnt  consent to it. 
So, without stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make Mr T aware the PPI was optional,  
I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.  I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds 
wouldve made Mr T aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out without  undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Due to the length of time since the sale of the policy, its not clear how the policy was sold. 
But Lloyds have  assumed this was a branch sale and that they advised  Mr T to take out the 
policy. Mr T cant remember if he was advised to take out the PPI or not. 
However, it is not necessary for me make  a conclusive determination  on this point. This is 
because I have not found that the policy  was unsuitable for Mr T for the reasons set out below. 
So, even if I assume advice was given, it does  not affect the outcome of this complaint.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr T with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr T. It seems Mr T cant remember clearly  what happened  and there is 
no record of what may have been discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser likely had 
some limited  information about Mr Ts financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  
evidence to show that Lloyds took steps  to establish whether Mr T would  have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Mr T 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr T given his circumstances. So, Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive looked  at the evidence we have from 1994  to 2000 and 
Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN77669335-Mr T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ts ability  to continue to meet his 
credit card repayments  would have  been  put under strain if he was not working  for an 
extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits and sick pay 
benefits he says he would have been entitled  to.
-Although Mr T says he was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr T. There was 
nothing Ive seen  about Mr Ts employment or occupation during this period which would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions,  Mr T has 
told us about a medical condition he suffered from in 1983. But he told us this was a 
broken bone and hasnt told us that this affected him at any time after this condition  
healed. And looking  at the policies in place around that time,  they wouldve only excluded 
claims which Mr T had sought medical  attention for in the 12 months prior to the start 
date. So, this doesnt appear to be caught by the policy  limitations and exclusions. There  
were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental  health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim for 
disability, unemployment or hospitalisation,  it still provided  useful cover  given Mr Ts 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared  his outstanding  card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr T was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr T would  have been told this at the point of sale. I think its 
unlikely Mr T would have  taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was. 
I am also satisfied Mr T would have realised  the policy wasnt free and its likely he would  
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave  sufficient  information  about the actual 
monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums would be added to the account 
balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of the month,  and were  payable during a 
claim) or about the exclusions and limitations, before Mr T agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr T, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr T. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr T all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN77669336Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ts. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr Ts representative considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much  of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr T about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr T. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr T would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr T, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr T has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Mr T would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr T says he would not have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN77669337The evidence in this case suggests that Mr T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ts circumstances around the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr T ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So, while  Mr T didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Looking at the policy documents available from the period between March  1994 and January 
2000 possibly  the most  significant  differences between what Mr T thought he had bought 
and what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability caused or contributed to by a 
condition which  Mr T consulted  or received treatment from a doctor in the 12 month  
period prior to the commencement date of the insurance;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr T wasnt 
a permanent  employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr T pause for thought  and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  Ive seen about Mr Ts circumstances  between March 1994  and January  
2000 shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible 
for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions,  couldve 
proved valuable to him should  the insured risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen 
any evidence to suggest he wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  as 
Ive said above,  from what Mr T has told us, he wouldnt have been prevented from making  a 
claim for any pre-existing medical condition. So, I still think he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN77669338To make a disability claim, Mr T needed to be totally unable to do his normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been  able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr T would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr T would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr T 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mr T compensation, as that would put him in a better  position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN77669339Im also aware that Mr T thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
the period between March 1994 January 2000 when providing information  about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr T and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7766933