K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited wont accept his no claims discount when he 
came to insure a new vehicle.
background
Mr B applied to insure a new vehicle and wished to access the no claims discount. However, 
Aviva said that he didnt qualify for this under its terms because  it was more  than two years 
since the vehicle  had been  insured. And it doesnt  accept no claims discounts from more 
than two years before.
Mr B says that Aviva shouldve told him this when he cancelled  his old policy.  Had it done  
so, Mr B wouldve then been  able to renew  the policy within  the two years  and access  the no 
claims discount. 
Aviva says that its not required to tell customers about its terms and offers  on cancellation.  
And that it doesnt  tell customers about this when cancelling  because offers  and terms 
change over time. So this information can quickly become out of date.
Mr B was unhappy with this. Hes explained  that hes a loyal customer  of Aviva,  and hed like 
Aviva to do something in this case to recognise  this.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
He explained  that Aviva can decide what terms to offer on promotions such as a no claims 
discount. And the investigator didnt think Aviva  needed to inform Mr B of its no claims 
discount rules when he chose to cancel  his policy.
Mr B disagreed with this; he questioned  whether a no claims discount can be seen as a 
promotional tool as theyve been  in existence for a long time. And the no claims discount 
offer hasnt expired and he has been  a loyal customer with Aviva.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr B, no claims discount is an offer or promotion. I know  
that Mr B has questioned  this because of how established no claims discounts are in the 
industry. But whilst I understand his point of view, this doesnt change the fact that 
businesses are within reason, allowed to make  commercial decisions about  what  they offer 
and how. This is important here, because it means  I dont think Aviva has been  unfair  or 
unreasonable in having certain requirements for its no claims discount. As Mr Bs vehicle 
didnt meet its requirements  for the no claims discount, its entitled  not to offer this to Mr B.
However, Mr B has also raised  the argument  that when he cancelled  the policy, had Aviva 
gave him information  about the no claims discount then  he could have made  plans to 
make sure that he re-insured within the timeframe needed to qualify for it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said about this. And I understand the point Mr B 
has made about him being a loyal customer and having  other  policies with Aviva  on other 
vehicles. But ultimately Aviva is not required  to give Mr B details of its promotions and offers 
Ref: DRN72615892on cancellation. And when Mr B called to cancel his policy, whilst Aviva may have wanted  to 
entice Mr B to continue his insurance with them, I dont think  its fair to say that on 
cancellation Aviva  should have told Mr B about its terms for renewing or taking out new 
insurance with it in the future.
I think from Avivas  point  of view and in terms of its responsibilities  then, its role was to 
cancel Mr B insurance on the vehicle in line with his instructions. And to make sure it had 
carried out the appropriate administrative duties  to do so. Whether Mr B chooses  to re-insure 
his vehicle with Aviva and when, is then up to him. And by the same  token, the offer that 
Aviva now provides to Mr B in terms of the cost of re-insuring and the terms it applies to this 
is Avivas to decide  as long as this is in-line with the regulations its required to work within.
Mr B has questioned whether Aviva should make exceptions and work with him as a loyal 
customer to provide him with a deal outside of its usual terms and promotions. Again  this is 
down to Aviva to decide and its not something we can help with, unless we think  Aviva has 
done something wrong. And after considering all the evidence, I dont think  that Aviva  has 
made an error or treated  Mr B unfairly.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome  but I think  Aviva has acted  
reasonably and hasnt done  anything wrong. So therefore it follows that I do not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint and make no award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7261589