K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) unfairly turned down a claim 
he made against his income protection policy. 
background
Mr S has an income protection policy with Aegon. In the event of Mr S becoming  
incapacitated, Aegon  would pay a percentage of his income after a deferred period of 
13 weeks. 
In March 2018, Mr S made a claim. He said he had been suffering from stress and low mood 
with symptoms of nausea,  nervousness  and shaking  which he said had started in October 
2017. And he said in the two weeks before he completed the claim form, he had been 
practically bedridden. He said he needed help from his family with day to day tasks such as 
shopping, booking  medical appointments and remembering to take his medication.  
Aegon reviewed  Mr Ss claim and turned it down in July 2018. It said for it to meet a claim, 
Mr S needed  to be unable to carry out three of the eight activities of daily work listed in the 
policy. And it said it hadnt seen sufficient medical  evidence that he was unable to carry out 
these activities. 
Unhappy that his claim hadnt been met, Mr S complained to Aegon.  He said he was unable  
to carry out three activities  of daily work  listed in the policy: climbing,  healthcare and financial 
independence. 
And Mr S said he disagreed with the way Aegon had interpreted his medical  records.
Aegon responded to Mr S and said that the medical records  it had seen  didnt evidence  that 
he was unable to complete three  of the activities of daily work listed in the policy
Mr S remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. He said he thought Aegon was 
being obstructive  and said he hadnt  seen any evidence that it had originally sent him the 
policy terms. 
An investigator here looked into the complaint. He said he didnt think Mr S met the definition 
of incapacity under the policy. And he said he didnt think  Aegon had done anything  wrong.  
Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made very detailed submissions to us about his complaint. I wont be commenting 
on every  point  instead Ive concentrated on what I believe  to be the main  issues. And this 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Firstly, I recognise  that Mr S has been feeling  unwell for some  time. And he has been given 
doctors certificates stating hes unfit for work  on numerous occasions. The fact that Mr S is 
unwell isnt in dispute. What I need  to decide is whether Mr Ss claim met the terms of his 
income protection policy, and whether Aegon should  have paid the claim. 
Ref: DRN77029512In this case, the policy defines incapacity  as unable to carry out any three of the following 
eight activities and is not working.  The policy goes on to list eight activities  of daily work. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say Aegon has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly  and shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I dont think Aegon  has 
rejected Mr Ss claim  unfairly or unreasonably in this case.  And Ill explain why. 
When submitting his claim Mr S said he had difficulties  climbing  up and down stairs at home 
without holding on or stopping to rest. He also said he needed help from his family with tasks  
relating to dealing with his medical  appointments and medication and finances.  He related 
these symptoms to three of the activities of daily work  climbing, healthcare and financial 
independence. 
The policy definitions around  the activities of daily work regarding healthcare and financial 
independence are as follows.  
Healthcare - The ability to independently make arrangements to see a doctor and 
take regular medication as prescribed  by a medical practitioner, or similarly qualified 
medical doctor
Financial Independence - The ability to recognise  the transactional value of money 
and the handling of routine financial transactions"
Having reviewed the medical records, these show Mr S was initially  deemed unfit for work 
due to low mood. He was referred for counselling and was prescribed anti-depressants. 
Notes about the counselling sessions  state that this improved his mood, and the anti-
depressant dosage was reduced  in March 2018.  
Based on this I dont  think it was unfair  of Aegon  to determine there was insufficient 
evidence that Mr S was suffering with a mental health condition  of a severity  which  would 
prevent him from carrying out the activities of healthcare and financial independence. 
I accept what Mr S has said about  receiving help from his family with tasks  related to 
healthcare and finance. However, I dont think the fact that Mr S was receiving help with 
these activities sufficiently  evidences  he was unable to complete them himself. 
Turning to Mr Ss physical health, the policy definition around the activity of daily work 
regarding climbing  is as follows. 
"Climbing - The ability to walk up or down a flight of 12 stairs without holding  onto 
a rail or resting
Mr Ss medical records make note of him suffering with shaking  and a numbness in his hand 
at times. The records say the numbness occurred only at night and was resolved by shaking  
the hand. And no further tests were  carried out, although this option was presented  to Mr S 
by the doctor.  
The medical records also make note of Mr Ss ongoing symptoms  of shaking and feeling  
jittery. But show no treatment or further  action recommended by Mr Ss doctor. 
Ref: DRN77029513Mr Ss medical records refer to the doctor having  recommended exercise, and Mr S taking part 
in sporting activities up until April 2018.  At that time Mr S injured his wrist and stopped playing 
sports as a result. The records also show a flare up of gout in Mr Ss ankle  in late May.  
Mr Ss medical records from March 2018  dont reflect the symptoms of shaking to the 
debilitating level that Mr S referenced experiencing at that time on his claim form. And the 
records show he was able to take part in exercise  and sport up until late April 2018. 
Based on this, I dont  think  it was unfair  of Aegon  to conclude it hadnt seen enough 
evidence that Mr Ss physical symptoms  prevented  him from climbing a flight of stairs as 
specified in the policy. 
Mr S has said the letter  provided  by a GP, Doctor W, in July 2018 provides evidence  of his 
difficulties completing  three of the activities of daily work. However,  Aegon  has said this 
letter confirms Mr Ss self-reported symptoms and offers no actual diagnosis.  
Whilst Ive taken the contents of the Doctor  Ws letter into account,  Im not persuaded that it 
provides medical  evidence of the difficulties  Mr S said he was experiencing. Rather I think it 
sets out what the doctor was advised  about Mr Ss condition by Mr S himself.  
Having reviewed the evidence available Ive not seen anything  which  persuades me that 
Aegon should have met Mr Ss claim.  
Mr S has also said that he didnt receive the original policy  terms. Mr S purchased his policy 
through a broker,  and Aegon provided evidence that the policy  terms were  sent to Mr Ss 
broker. So, Im satisfied  that Aegon fulfilled its responsibilities  to provide the policy  terms. 
In summary,  I dont think Aegon has unfairly  or unreasonably turned down Mr Ss claim. Im 
satisfied that Mr S has been unable to provide sufficient evidence that he met the policy  
definition of incapacity. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint and 
I make  no award against Scottish Equitable Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7702951