K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain  that Admiral  Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  unfairly  declined  
their home  insurance  claim.
background 
Mr and Mrs H have  home  insurance  provided  by Admiral.
In early  January  2019,  Mr H noticed  their boiler  (located  in an outhouse)  was on fire. 
He managed  to put the fire out and called  Admiral  to make  a claim.  During  the initial  
call, Mr H confirmed  the boiler  was about  28 years  old and said there'd  been  no 
previous  problems  with it. He also told Admiral  he'd arranged  for an electrician  to come  
out to do the electrical  side of it and said he was having  a replacement  boiler  fitted  the 
following  day. Admiral  told Mr H to take photographs,  as they'd  be needed  to validate  
the claim.  It also said it would  arrange  for a loss adjuster  to get in touch  - probably  
within  24 hours  - and they'd  come  out to assess  the damage.  Mr H told Admiral  he 
hoped  to have  everything  back  to normal  in 24 hours.  Admiral  commented  that as 
long as he took pictures  of the damage  it shouldn't  be an issue.  And it said he should  
keep  hold of any invoices  and a list of the work  done.
Admiral  sent a loss adjuster  out about  five days  later.  The loss adjuster  took 
photographs  of the damaged  boiler  (the replacement  was already  installed  by this point)  
and noted  its age. According  to the loss adjuster's  notes  Mr and Mrs H were  to forward  
a plumber  report  and estimate  forensics  may be required  if the plumbers  report  is 
unclear.  Following  the loss adjuster's  visit, Mr H disposed  of the old boiler.
In mid-February  2019  (and over a month  after his inspection),  the loss adjuster  sent his 
report  to Admiral  and recommended  the claim  be declined.  He said he couldn't  rule out 
wear  and tear  in the absence  of a forensic  inspection  (as the damaged  boiler  had 
since  been  disposed  of). Admiral  declined  the claim  in full and said the damage  was 
likely  caused  by wear  and tear (mechanical  breakdown)  given  the boiler's  age.
Mr H spoke  to Admiral  about  his claim  in mid-March  2019.  It told Mr H that its position  
had been  prejudiced  because  he'd disposed  of the old boiler.  And in the absence  of 
other  specialist  reports,  it couldn't  really  say what  caused  the damage.  But it thought  it 
was more  likely  due to wear  and tear. Mr H reminded  Admiral  that the boiler  was still 
at his home  when  the loss adjuster  came  out and said nobody  had told him a forensic  
report  would  be needed.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Admiral,  as they weren't  happy  with its handling  of the 
claim,  or its decision  not to settle  it. Admiral  gave  them  a similar  response  to the one 
given  when  they discussed  the claim  in March.  Although  it added  that it hadn't  
received  a plumber's  report  from Mr and Mrs H, so couldn't  fully assess  the situation.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us.
Our investigator  looked  into the complaint  and felt Admiral  had acted  unfairly.  The 
investigator  felt it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs H to dispose  of the old boiler,  
particularly  because  Admiral  hadn't  specifically  told them  not to and they'd  taken  
photographs  of the damage  beforehand  (as instructed).  The investigator  also thought  it 
Ref: DRN75174432was unfair  for Admiral  to rely on a wear  and tear  exclusion  in the policy  given  that 
Mr H said they'd  had the boiler  serviced  a few months  before  and no issues  had been  
identified.  The investigator  recommended  Admiral  pay Mr and Mrs H £500  in line with 
the reimbursement  basis  section  of the policy.
Admiral  didn't  agree  with the investigator's  view.  It said at no point  had Mr H indicated  
he'd be getting  rid of the boiler,  so Admiral  hadn't  agreed  to it. As Admiral  didn't  
agree,  the complaint  has been  passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr and Mrs H and Admiral my provisional decision on 24 December 2020. Ive 
included the relevant extracts below.
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  
fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Insurance  policies  don't  cover  every  eventuality.  They're  designed  to offer cover  
against  certain  defined  risks.  It's for the policyholder  to demonstrate  that an 'insured  
event'  happened  - in other  words,  that one of the risks  included  in the policy  had 
materialised.  If they can do this then the insurer  should  either  pay the claim  or show  
that an exclusion  applies  which  allows  it to decline  the claim.
Admiral  don't  seem  to be disputing  that the boiler  caught  fire. Nor do they appear  to 
dispute  that the incident  Mr H reported  was potentially  covered  by their home  insurance  
policy.  But Admiral  thought  it more  likely  that the cause  of the damage  was mechanical  
failure  due to 'wear  and tear'.  Mr and Mrs H's policy  contains  a general  exclusion  
relating  to damage  caused  by 'wear  and tear'.  So, Admiral  relied  on that exclusion  to 
decline  the claim.
Based  on the evidence  I've seen,  I'm not currently  satisfied  Admiral's  decision  was 
fair or reasonable.  I'll explain  why.
Admiral  said its position  was prejudiced  because  it couldn't  forensically  examine  the 
boiler  to assess  the cause  of damage.  And because  of that, it thought  the likely  cause  
was 'wear  and tear' given  the boiler's  age. I don't  dispute  there's  likely  to be some  wear  
and tear to a boiler  that was almost  28 years  old at the point  Mr H made  the claim.  
Even  though  Mr H said there'd  been  no problems  with it before  he made  the claim.  But 
I think  the key issue  here is whether  it was fire or something  else that caused  the 
damage  to the boiler.  Based  on the evidence  I've seen,  I'm not currently  satisfied  
Admiral's  done  enough  to fairly  show  the wear  and tear exclusion  should  apply.
Admiral  had photographs  from Mr H and its loss adjuster  to show  the boiler  caught  fire. 
And the loss adjuster  was able to inspect  the damaged  boiler  whilst  it was still at 
Mr and Mrs H's house.  So, I think  it would  have  been  pretty  clear  to Admiral  that the 
boiler  had suffered  fire damage.  And Mr H told Admiral  he'd had no problems  with the 
boiler  before  he noticed  the fire. So, I think  Admiral  had enough  information  to show  
that the cause  of the damage  was fire. And,  as Mr H's policy  is covered  for fire, I don't  
think  it was fair of Admiral  to then rely on a policy  exclusion  for 'wear  and tear'.
Ref: DRN75174433I also don't  think  it was fair for Admiral  to suggest  that part of its rationale  for saying  the 
most  likely  cause  of the damage  was 'wear  and tear' was because  Mr and Mrs H 
hadn't  kept the damaged  boiler  for forensic  examination.  Admiral's  pointed  to the 
following  policy  condition  to support  its position:
"you must  not throw  away,  get rid of or destroy  any items  that are damaged  until we 
agree,  and you have  taken  a photograph  beforehand.
I accept  the policy  terms  do say that items  being  claimed  for shouldn't  be disposed  of 
until Admiral  has given  the go-ahead.  But I don't  think  it was fair for Admiral  to rely on 
this condition  in the specific  circumstances  of this case.  That's  because  when  logging  
the claim,  Mr H told Admiral  he'd already  arranged  for an electrician  to come  out and he 
said a plumber  was fitting  a replacement  boiler  the following  day. Given  that Mr H made  
the claim  in January  - in the depths  of winter  - and his boiler  controlled  the heating  and 
hot water,  I can fully appreciate  why he felt he needed  to have  it replaced  straightaway.
So, Admiral  knew  that Mr H was taking  immediate  steps  to replace  the boiler.  And he 
rang Admiral  for advice  and guidance  on what  he needed  to do next to progress  his 
claim.  The only advice  Admiral  gave  him was to take plenty  of photographs  of the 
damage  and keep  hold of any invoices  showing  the work  done.  And I think  Mr H should  
have  been  able to rely on the information  Admiral  gave  him at that stage.  It follows  that 
if it was essential  for Mr and Mrs H to keep  their old boiler  or instruct  a plumber  for a 
cause  of damage  report  then I think  Admiral  should  have  made  that clear  to Mr H over 
the phone.  Time  was of the essence  for Mr and Mrs H, so I don't  think  it was 
reasonable  to expect  them  to start looking  through  the wording  contained  in their policy  
booklet  to find out that they would  be required  to keep  their old, fire-damaged  boiler.  
So, I don't  think  it's fair for Admiral  to refer  to their failure  to keep  hold of the old boiler  
as a factor  in its decision  to decline  the claim  on the grounds  of a policy  exclusion  - 
'wear  and tear'.  Or by relying  on the fact Mr H breached  this condition.
I say that in particular  because  - whilst  noting  a forensic  inspection  might  be needed  
later on there's  also no evidence  the loss adjuster  communicated  that to Mr and 
Mrs H. And had he or Admiral  done  so, it's reasonable  to assume  Mr and Mrs H 
would  have  kept hold of the damaged  boiler  in the interests  of Admiral  considering  
their claim  quickly  and fairly.  So, again,  I don't  think  it's fair or reasonable  for Admiral  
to rely on this factor  in its decision  making.  And it follows  that I find it reasonable  for 
Mr H to think  he could  dispose  of the old boiler  once  the loss adjuster  had been  out - 
particularly  as he'd taken  photographs  as Admiral  told him to.
There's  also some  dispute  about  whether  the loss adjuster  asked  Mr and Mrs H to get 
a plumber's  report.  The loss adjuster's  notes  taken  after he'd inspected  the damage  to 
the boiler  indicated  he had. But I can see that when  discussing  his complaint  with 
Admiral,  Mr H appears  to suggest  he hadn't.  Where  there's  a conflict  in the evidence  - 
as there  is here - I need  to decide  what's  most  likely  to have  happened.  And,  on 
balance,  I'm not persuaded  the loss adjuster  did ask Mr H to get a plumber's  report.  I 
say that because  the claim  was clearly  important  to Mr and Mrs H, and if they'd  known  
it was needed  I think  it's likely  Mr H would  have  got a report  - as that could  have  been  
the difference  between  the claim  being  successfully  settled  and not. And Mr H got the 
other  evidence  Admiral  asked  him to, so there's  no reason  to believe  he wouldn't  have  
done  the same  here.
Ref: DRN75174434For all of the reasons  I've outlined,  I don't  think  Admiral  has dealt  with Mr and Mrs H's 
claim  fairly  and reasonably.  To put things  right now,  I'm intending  to say Admiral  
should  settle  Mr and Mrs H's claim  as I've set out below.  I'm also intending  to say 
Admiral  should  award  interest  on the settlement  from the date their claim  should  have  
been  accepted.  That's  because  Mr and Mrs H should  have  had their claim  settled  
(around  February  2019  when  the loss adjuster  recommended  it was declined)  and 
their money  back  based  on the claim  settlement  terms  I've referred  to. And it's clear  
that Admiral's  handling  of this claim  has caused  Mr and Mrs H some  inconvenience.  
So, I'm intending  to say Admiral  should  award  them  £200  compensation  to address  
that.
Responses to my provisional decision.
Admiral hasnt given  me any comments or additional  information  to consider. 
Mr H responded on behalf  of himself and his wife. He said he had nothing further to add to 
what had already been said.  However, he also said It is not the outcome that I would  have 
liked. But at least whatever the ombudsman's outcome  is (if any) will in part go towards 
paying off the cost the replacement boiler. 
My findings
Ive again considered all of the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As neither Admiral nor Mr and Mrs H have given me comments or new information  to 
consider, I see no reason  to change what I said in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
I uphold  this complaint  and direct  Admiral  Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  to:
 settle  the claim  within  the remaining  terms  of Mr and Mrs H's policy.  Admiral  
should  add simple  interest  to its settlement  figure  at a rate of 8% a year from 
12 February  2019  to the date of final settlement1;
 pay Mr and Mrs H £200  compensation  in respect  of the inconvenience  they've  
suffered  as a result  of Admiral's  handling  of their claim.
Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  Im required  to ask 
Mr and Mrs H to accept  or reject  my decision  by 4 March  2021.
Amanda  Scott
ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much it's taken off. It should  also give them a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN75174435
Ref: DRN7517443