K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is that Monecor (London) Ltd (Monecor), trading as ETX Capital, is 
responsible for the actions of an individual  (the individual) who was appointed, with a power 
of attorney  (POA), to trade in her account.  
background
Mrs D opened the account in July 2012.  In the same month she completed and signed a 
POA form in which she appointed the relevant individual to trade  in the account.  The form 
confirmed that the individual had her authority to place orders and trades  in the account with 
absolute discretion. The form also confirmed that the individual  was not a regulated  person,  
that he was a business associate of Mrs Ds, that Monecor was to accept his instructions 
and that it was not to seek verification or approval, from her, of those instructions.
Mrs D says circumstances went beyond what was captured in the POA  documentation. She 
says she believes the individual had a pre-existing business relationship  with Monecor and 
that he recruited  account holders for Monecor. The main issue  is about the individuals 
conduct (in terms of trading) in Mrs Ds account and Mrs D says Monecor had the 
responsibility to monitor  the individuals actions  and/or her account.
Monecor disputes  the complaint. It says:
The POA arrangement was between the individual  and Mrs D. She completed the 
POA to appoint  him and she would have been the person who provided him with 
details about her account number  and password  because Monecor did not do that.
Mrs D did not revoke  the POA.
Monecor provided  an execution only service and it had no contractual  obligation  to 
monitor the account or the individuals conduct and/or trading. Mrs D retained 
responsibility for the individual.
Daily  contract  notes  and monthly  statements were sent to Mrs D, through  her 
husbands email  address,  so she would have been aware of the individuals  trading 
activities in the account.
It has no introducer based arrangement with the individual and made  no payments to 
him.
The complaint was referred  to this service and was looked into by one of our investigators.  
He concluded  that the complaint  should not be upheld,  for reasons broadly similar to those 
given by Monecor.  Mrs Ds husband  replied on her behalf and disagreed with this outcome. 
In the main he maintained that an arrangement existed between  Monecor and the individual  
which created an interest for Monecor, that Monecor should  have had a duty of care to 
monitor the individuals trading actions  and that Monecor ought not to have  allowed an 
unregulated person to trade  in the account.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I conclude  that the 
complaint is not upheld,  for reasons broadly similar to those given by the investigator (and by 
Monecor).
Ref: DRN77256832Appointment of the individual  was done by Mrs D. I have not seen  evidence  of the 
relationship between the individual and Monecor that has been alleged.  The same  applies to 
the suggestion that the individual received a form of payment for introduction of Mrs D to 
Monecor  I have  not seen  evidence  of this.
The form that was signed and submitted by Mrs D  in order to appoint  the individual  and to 
put in place the POA for him  set out the arrangement that she was creating, requesting 
and consenting  to. That arrangement meant  the individual had her full authority to control 
trading within  her account, at his complete discretion and with the obligation upon Monecor 
to accept his instructions  without having to revert to her for approval  or verification of those 
instructions. This establishes that the primary and sole responsibility for the arrangement  
belonged and belongs to Mrs D.
The form confirmed that the individual was not a regulated  person.  He was appointed at   
Mrs Ds discretion and I have not seen evidence that Monecor should, at the time, have only 
accepted the appointment of a regulated person. The terms of the appointment and of the 
account absolved  Monecor of responsibility for the arrangement and for the appointment. 
That responsibility remained Mrs Ds. The account  was based on an execution only service, 
so Monecor was not obliged to monitor the account  or the individuals actions. It is also 
arguable that the POA submitted by Mrs D expressly required that the individuals  trading 
instructions, at his complete discretion, were to be accepted by Monecor without any such  
monitoring (that is, without seeking verification  or approval from Mrs D).
I note the concerns Mrs D has raised  about the individuals actions. However, for the 
reasons given above there does not appear to be a basis to hold Monecor responsible  in 
that respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725683