K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which is attached  and forms part
of this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think it was 
likely the PPI sold in 1991 was mis-sold. But I did think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the 
PPI sold in 1998 should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R responded  to say they didnt have anything further to add about the PPI sold 
in 1991 and they wouldnt be able to get any further evidence about  Mr Rs employee  
benefits at the time. Halifax also responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and it 
is now prepared to make  an offer to Mr and Mrs R in relation to the PPI sold in 1998.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs R nor Halifax  have provided  any further evidence or points theyd like 
me to consider, I see no reason  to reach  a different conclusion  to that reached previously. It 
follows that I dont  think its likely  the PPI Mr and Mrs R took out in 1991 was mis-sold, so I 
dont uphold that part of their complaint. But the complaint about the PPI sold in 1998 should  
be upheld.
putting things right
Halifax should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI 
in 1998. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Halifax  can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give 
Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN72059412my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint about  the PPI sold in 1991  but I do uphold  their complaint about the PPI sold in 
1998. Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should put things right by doing  what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72059413copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them  two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs R arranged a mortgage with Halifax in 1991. At this time a PPI was set up that covered  
Mr R only.  It would have paid a benefit of £350 a month for up to 12 months if Mr R made  a 
successful claim  for accident, sickness or unemployment.
In 1998 Mr and Mrs R moved house and arranged  a new mortgage with Halifax. At this time their 
previous PPI policy was cancelled  and a new policy set up. This again covered Mr R only. It would  
have paid a benefit of £500 a month for up to 12 months if Mr R had made  a successful  claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
I currently think its unlikely the PPI taken out in 1991  was mis-sold but I do think  its likely  the PPI 
taken out in 1998 wasnt suitable for Mr and Mr R and I plan to uphold their complaint about this 
policy. Ill explain  why.
PPI taken out in 1991
Mr and Mrs R say they dont remember taking  out the PPI in 1991 and that Halifax took advantage of 
them. Its not surprising they dont remember  any discussion about PPI from over 25 years ago, 
especially since their focus likely to have been on getting the mortgage,  rather  than purchasing  
insurance. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork from 1991 when the mortgage and PPI were 
arranged to show what discussions there were about the PPI. But this doesnt mean  I should uphold 
the complaint. It wouldnt  be fair to do this just because Halifax hasnt been able to provide paperwork 
about a policy that was taken out such a long time ago and that was cancelled in 1998.
For me to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint on the basis Halifax sold them  the PPI without any 
discussion and without their explicit consent, I would need to be persuaded that this is what  is more  
likely to have happened.  And I dont  have enough evidence to do this. I think  its more  likely Mr and 
Mrs R did agree to take out the PPI but theyve forgotten about this so many years later. I note they 
said the same  thing  about  the PPI taken out in 1998 but for this sale I can see they signed a separate  
application form for the PPI as well as a separate section on the mortgage  application. I think  its likely  
the same type of process would have been followed in 1991.
So I think its more likely Halifax  made Mr and Mrs R aware they had a choice about  buying  the PPI 
and they chose  to take it.
Ref: DRN72059414Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I dont have enough  to say it 
wasnt. For example  Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt need  the cover provided  by the PPI because of Mr Rs employee 
benefits and their savings at the time. Mr Rs said he would have received full pay for 12 months or 
more from his employer if he was off sick. But theyve not been able to provide  anything to support  
this and in my experience  this would be very generous. Without  any evidence that this is the sick pay 
Mr R would have received,  I think its more likely it wasnt quite  as good as he remembers  it being. 
Mr R was the main income earner in the household  and it seems likely he and Mrs R would have 
struggled to make their mortgage repayments if he wasnt  able to work. The PPI would  mean  this was 
one thing they wouldnt  have  to worry  about.  It would pay out on top of any sick pay Mr R did receive 
and allow them to use that and any savings they had for other  household expenses.
So Im satisfied its likely Mr and Mrs R had a need for the cover and the PPI was suitable for them.  
Its possible the information Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as Ive explained,  I think  its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put them  off 
taking out the cover. 
Overall, based on the evidence thats currently available, I dont think its likely the PPI Mr and Mrs R 
took out in 1991 was mis-sold.
PPI taken out in 1998
As Ive already mentioned,  I think Mr and Mrs R did agree to take out the PPI in 1998  they signed 
an application form for it  although I understand why they dont remember  this. But again Halifax 
recommended it to them, so it should  have  made sure it was right for them.  And I dont currently think  
its likely  that it was.
Again, Mr R has said his employer  in 1998 would have paid him if he was off sick for more than 12 
months. But this time hes provided some evidence  that supports that.
From August  2010 to November 2012 Mr R wasnt  able to work  due to sickness. Hes shown us that 
his employer (who was the same as in 1998)  continued to pay him throughout  this period  over two 
years. Its not clear if his sick pay would have continued for so long in 1998,  when hed only been 
working there for just over two years (compared to over 14 years in 2010).  But even if it was half as 
much, it doesnt seem  that he and Mrs R had much need for the PPI  it seems they would probably 
have been able to carry on paying for the mortgage and other  household expenses without it.
While I appreciate the fact Mr Rs employer  paid him for over two years from 2010 doesnt mean it 
would definitely have done this if hed been off sick earlier  in his career with the company, it does go 
some way to support what hes told us about  the level of sick pay he would have received.  On 
balance, I think its likely Mr Rs sick pay in 1998  would have been enough to make  the PPI unsuitable  
for them.
It follows that I currently think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about  the PPI sold in 1998 should  be upheld.
putting things  right
Halifax should  put Mr and Mrs R in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI in 1998. 
It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN72059415Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Halifax to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr and Mrs R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  about  the PPI sold in 1991 but I do plan to uphold  
their complaint about the PPI sold in 1998.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7205941