K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP did not carry out the correct affordability 
checks before it approved  his loans.
background
Mr O had two loans  from Uncle Buck between  November and December 2014 as shown  
below:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 5 Nov 2014 £200 24d £269.90 28 Nov 2014 Interest + £20
28 Nov 2014
Rollover 28 Nov 2014 £180 22d £242.91 19 Dec 2014 On time
2 24 Dec 2014 £400 31d £539.80 23 Jan 2015 31 Jul 2015
Mr O says that better checks by Uncle Buck would have shown the repayments were 
unaffordable and that he had a poor financial history.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Mr O about his income  and expenditure and checked his credit file. 
It says that, based  on the information it had, the loans were  affordable.  It adds that Mr O told 
it he was in financial difficulty on 20 January 2015 and said his income was reduced due to 
illness. Uncle Buck says it agreed a repayment plan and that loan 2 was subsequently 
settled on 31 July 2015.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said she hadnt seen 
enough to say loan 1 shouldnt have been  approved, but Uncle  Buck should have done 
better checks before approving loan 2. Our adjudicator says this would have  shown Mr O 
was having trouble managing his money  as he had five other  short-term  loans outstanding. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Uncle Buck should refund interest and charges (plus  8% 
statutory interest) on loan 2 and that associated  negative  information should be removed 
from Mr Os credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that removing adverse information about  loan 2 
would lead to other  lenders basing their decisions on incorrect information. It adds that it 
found loan 2 was affordable based on the information provided  and that there was nothing  
on Mr Os credit report that gave cause for concern. Uncle Buck says it had seen no 
evidence of five other  short-term loans, but that the active balances on his credit report  
should have taken those into account.  In which case, it says,  Mr O had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the repayments.
Ref: DRN79533092my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr O, and to Uncle Buck,  on 19 December 2019. I 
summarise my findings here:
When Mr O applied for his first loan, Uncle Bucks credit check  showed  hed had 
three defaults since October 2013   one of which  was less than four months  earlier. 
As a result, Id have  expected a proportionate  check to include a full financial review.  
I couldnt see Uncle Buck did this, so I considered what such  a check was likely to 
have shown;
From  looking at Mr Os credit  file and bank statements, I thought it was likely  Uncle 
Buck would have  found that Mr O had outstanding balances with six other  short-term  
loan providers and spent a significant amount  of money on gambling. So I thought  
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was unlikely  Mr O would have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan and it should  not have been approved;
Mr O rolled  over loan 1 before repaying it and then applied for double the amount just 
5 days later. Because of this, and the results of its credit check, I considered Uncle  
Buck should,  again, have carried out a full financial review before lending  to Mr O;
I could see that Mr Os financial  circumstances  were largely unchanged from loan 1, 
so I couldnt conclude Uncle Buck acted responsibly by approving  loan 2;
I acknowledged what Uncle Buck said about  removing  adverse information from 
Mr Os credit file, but, as I didnt consider either loan should have been approved, I 
needed to consider  how best to put Mr O back in the position in which he would  have 
been had the loans  not existed. So I found it reasonable for any negative information  
to be removed so that Mr Os credit record wasnt adversely affected by the loans;
I also accepted  that Uncle Buck said the credit file would have included the active  
balances on the other  short-term loans. But I could not agree that Mr O had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments,  as a full financial review would have 
shown Mr Os income was not the £2,700 hed declared. Indeed  it was much more  in 
line with the £1,200  hed stated when discussing a repayment  plan.
So my provisional decision was that Uncle Buck should refund interest and charges on both 
loans (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove associated adverse information from Mr Os 
credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that:
Mr Os declared  income and expenditure showed the repayments  were affordable;
Mr Os credit file showed no judgements or insolvency, and limited searches; 
It could not see any evidence that Mr O had multiple outstanding short-term  loans;
Although it could see Mr O had three defaults,  none were in the previous three 
months and the total value was less than £500;
Mr O responded to say he had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN79533093my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Uncle Buck asked Mr O for information about his income  and expenditure which 
showed the loans were  affordable. But the credit check it carried  out indicated  Mr O was 
showing signs he was having  problems managing his money.  Not only did it show three 
defaults, but it also showed balances  on five short-term loans  these are described as 
instalment loans or unsecured loans  on the credit  file.
I acknowledge that Uncle Buck  says this does not make its loans unaffordable,  based upon 
Mr Os declared  disposable income.  However, I consider Uncle Buck  had clear information  
that showed Mr O may be in financial difficulties and, therefore, it should have carried  out 
better checks before approving the loans.
Based upon what  I have  found, Im satisfied  that proportionate checks  would have shown 
Mr O did not have the level of disposable income hed declared, he actually  had six other 
outstanding short-term loans and he was spending a significant  amount of money on 
gambling.
For these reasons, I cant conclude it was responsible to lend to Mr O and I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Os complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr O paid on both loans;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about the loans from Mr Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7953309