K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Hargreaves  Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HL) mistakenly told 
him he could add money to his Stocks and Shares ISA and that its phone  staff failed to deal 
with his concerns  promptly,  appropriately or efficiently.
background
HL partially upheld his complaint. In its Final  Response Letter (FRL) it admitted it had initially  
given him misleading  advice and that this led to various further calls to clarify/rectify things. It 
offered him £100 in compensation and offered to waive its transfer  free if he chose to move 
his investments to another  platform. It did not agree  to his demand for £300.
After Mr J brought his complaint to this service, he raised an additional  complaint  about a 
phone call on 3 May (and HLs refusal to pay £20 in compensation for this).  HL said he had 
not previously raised a formal complaint about  this issue  and its FRL had not dealt with it. It 
also said the issue itself was not a regulated  activity.
An investigator at this service agreed that this issue had not been  referred  to in the FRL, and 
said that it was therefore  not possible to consider it as part of this complaint. He also said 
that Mr Js complaint to this service had not spelt out this issue and so he would have to 
complain to HL about this specific issue  before this service could, in theory, consider it. He 
did not comment on whether it was a regulated activity. HL has since  issued a separate  FRL 
about this matter.
In assessing this complaint, the investigator acknowledged that HLs call handler  could have  
dealt with things  better  but he didnt agree that this minor error warranted  more than the 
£100 HL had offered, particularly given it had also offered to waive any transfer fees.
Mr J asked to escalate  his complaint to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator, and for the same reasons, both about the scope of 
this complaint and its merits.  I have  not therefore made a decision about  the separate issue  
about which HL recently  issued  a new FRL.  I did however  listen  to the relevant phone  call. 
While Mr J is entitled to refer this new complaint to our service,  I believe it would be helpful 
to say that in my view it is very unlikely such a complaint would be upheld  as, in my view,  the 
call handler was polite  and helpful, and did nothing wrong.
Overall, I am satisfied that HL generally  acted fairly  and appropriately  and that its 
compensation offer for the one specific mistake  was fair and reasonable. It recognised  that 
Mr J had lost faith in it as a result of the various calls and offered to waive any exit fees.  I am 
satisfied this represents a fair resolution  of the issues at stake.
Having listened  to the calls I am satisfied that HLs call handlers acted with professionalism  
and politeness. I recognise that Mr J was frustrated at the security  checks along with the fact 
that certain individuals were not available at the time he called, but I feel that HL dealt with 
him fairly and reasonably. I do not think it ought to have offered higher compensation.
Ref: DRN72183662my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7218366