K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Santander  UK Plc didnt return papers  relating to their property 
after they repaid their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with Santander  in 2014. They re-mortgaged with another 
lender in 2016. Mr and Mrs P say that Santander hasnt returned historical papers relating to 
the title, boundaries and previous owners of the property which  they say were  given to 
Santander when  they applied for the mortgage. 
Santander said it had no record of Mr and Mrs Ps request for the paperwork. It apologised 
and offered £50 compensation. It sent copies of all paperwork for Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  
from completion to repayment, although  Mrs P says this didnt arrive and in any case doesnt  
include the papers  theyre looking for. Santander  said Mr and Mrs P would have to make a 
subject access request for any other  documents it might have. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying theres no 
evidence that Santander received the bundle of papers that Mr and Mrs P are looking for. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. They said its important  for the paperwork to be returned as there  
are outstanding issues with the previous owner of the property. And theyd  like their children 
to have the papers when they inherit  the property. Mrs P says theyve been told the papers 
can be replicated, but there is a fee and only Santander can request  this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Im sorry  that these documents, which are important to Mr and Mrs P, have gone missing.  
What I must consider here though is whether Santander has made an error.
Santander says that Mr and Mrs P applied through a broker.  It provided a screen  shot of its 
request to the broker for information. This only shows  a request for payslips. 
It seems  unlikely  Santander would have requested the missing documents  from the broker 
as, from what  Mr and Mrs P have said, they relate to the property title and ownership. Its 
more likely these documents would have  been dealt with by the solicitors  acting for 
Santander and Mr and Mrs P in relation to the property purchase  and mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P contacted the solicitor, which sent an email confirming that all register 
paperworkwas returned to Santander.  Its not clear that this included the papers that Mr 
and Mrs P are looking for. 
Santander says that since  2003  its followed a process that doesnt require it to hold original 
title documents.  It says everything it needs  is recorded at the Land Registry.  
Ref: DRN70471262Santander says its checked with its deeds services department that it holds no information 
for Mr and Mrs P. I know this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs P were  hoping for. But I dont think  
Santander has the documents theyre trying to locate. And, as theres no evidence 
Santander ever received  these documents, I cant reasonably find that its responsible  for 
them going  missing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7047126