K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about a hire purchase  agreement he had with Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited
Mr R complains both about his individual experience with VWFS when his agreement  with it 
was coming to an end, and also about  if there is a wider issue  with the way VWFS handles 
customers nearing the end of the finance  term.
background
In September  2014 Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS under which it 
supplied him with a brand-new  car. Mr R told us he went into the agreement fully 
understanding the limitations of the contract, i.e. final balloon payment at the end of the 
contract or hand  the vehicle  back or trade in before the end of the term or voluntary 
terminate. The agreement was for 48 months.  If the agreement  ran its full term it was due to 
end in October 2018.
Mr R is unhappy about what happened  when the agreement  was coming to an end. He 
suggested VWFS didnt give him enough notice of what his options were.  This in turn meant 
he was not initially  able to choose  the option  he wanted which was to refinance the car. He 
also suggested VWFS gave him inaccurate  information which  prevented him ending his 
agreement early (voluntarily terminating), when that might have been the best option for 
him from a financial point of view.
In addition, Mr R suggested his options were  further curtailed, in a way that he could not 
have anticipated  at the beginning  of the agreement, because his car contained software that 
impacts on Nitrogen Oxide emissions in test conditions. His position  is that the car was worth 
less than it should have been  because of this software, and this in turn also meant he 
couldnt voluntarily  terminate his agreement. Mr R didnt  agree that any drop-in value of the 
car was anything to do with having  driven 25,000  miles more than he had agreed  to under 
the terms of his agreement.
In addition, Mr R suggested that VWFS  treated  him unfairly in his opinion  and that this was 
part of a wider  orchestrated  approach by VWFS directed against its customers. In particular, 
he indicated there  is a policy whereby VWFS supplies  inaccurate  information to customers 
for financial gain, applying undue pressure and stress at the end of agreements  in the hope 
the only option to the customer is to pay VWFS or swap for another VW group car. On this 
basis he wanted to us to investigate VWFSs  operations to see if this is the case. 
Moreover, Mr R is unhappy with VWFSs  complaint handling.
As a result of all this Mr R indicates  he did not go ahead with any of what  he indicated were 
his preferred options, i.e. to take out new finance  with VWFS or voluntary terminate his 
agreement. Rather  he ended  up acquiring a car from a third-party business. As part of Mr 
Rs deal with that third-party  business it seems it (the third-party business) paid off the 
outstanding balance on his hire purchase agreement with VWFS and part exchanged his old 
car for a new one.
If Mr R had settled the agreement himself he would have had to pay VWFS £10, 822.50  (this 
was the balloon payment, that this the payment a customer  must  pay if he wants to keep the 
car at the end of the agreement).  But he suggested  he only was offered £8,500 for the car at 
Ref: DRN77001612the end of the agreement.  Because what he was offered for the car was less than what  he 
owed for the car Mr Rs stance is that he was in negative equity.
In conclusion, Mr R said, the loss I believe I have suffered is £2,382.50 [ = £10,822.50 - 
£8,500] minus a fair wear  and tear allowance  due to the higher mileage of say £400  resulting 
in a loss of £1,982.50 . Mr R also wanted compensation for the time he had spent on his 
complaint. 
VWFSs stance  was that due to an IT problem  it didnt send Mr R the letters it meant to send 
him about his agreement  coming to an end. That said, it suggested that it wasnt  obliged to 
send the letters at all, rather it chose to do so as a matter of courtesy only.  Nonetheless, it 
apologised for this omission. It didnt agree that Mr Rs car was worth less because it had the 
software mentioned  above installed in it. VWFS let us know  that the charge  Mr R ran up for 
excess mileage was £1,800.
Dissatisfied Mr R came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. In summary,  he concluded he had no proper 
basis to uphold Mr Rs complaint. He didnt agree that Mr R had been unfairly prevented  
from refinancing his car or ending the agreement early through voluntary termination. Our 
investigator was not persuaded  that Mr R had ever asked to voluntarily terminate and had 
had that option refused.
Moreover, our investigator thought that it was most likely that Mr R was offered £8,500 for 
the car because of his own actions. In the sense that the extra  miles Mr R had chosen to 
drive had driven down  the value of the car. Our investigator explained this service  has no 
power to look at a complaint about  complaint  handling.
VWFS accepted our investigators conclusion, Mr R did not. He repeated  that if he had been  
allowed to voluntarily terminate his agreement he would have experienced no loss. This is 
because there would have been no negative equity for him to carry forward into any new 
deal. But he reiterated that VWFS  had told him he could not voluntarily terminate. He 
suggested VWFS had done  this and everything else he complained about deliberately to 
avoid the proper operation of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr R told us if he had been 
allowed to voluntarily terminate that is what he would have done. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN77001613Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I took a look at the contract to see what this says about telling Mr R about  his options when 
the agreement  is ending. I would have expected VWFS to keep to any contractual  
obligations it had agreed to. There is nothing  about  VWFS being  obliged  to send out letters  
about this. That said, given this was VWFSs normal procedure Id have expected it to have 
followed it.
However, Im not satisfied  though  that Mr R wasnt aware anyway of what  his options were. 
He indicated that he was fully aware  of how his agreement operated. And his submissions to 
us certainly back that up in that they demonstrate  a high level of knowledge about  how hire 
purchase agreements  work. That being  so it is perhaps surprising that Mr R didnt take 
action sooner when  he knew his contract was due to end.
Mr R tells us VWFS,  at first insisted hed missed  the boat when it came  to refinancing  with it. 
But it seems  that both parties agree  that VWFS changed its position and Mr R was then 
given the chance to refinance his agreement with it, but he declined to do so. So, the 
missing letters did not prevent  him exercising that option. Rather it seems Mr R chose not to 
refinance his car with VWFS. Instead  he decided to enter into a new agreement with a third-
party supplier. 
As part of that deal with the third-party,  it seemingly settled the outstanding finance and 
offered Mr R £8,500  for his car. We have not seen anything from the third-party  to show  this 
was its valuation of the car. In any event there could be any number of reasons why that 
third-party valued the car at £8,500. Mr R attributes this solely  to the presence of the 
software in the car. But he has not provided  any information to show that this was the case. I 
also think it fair to note that if Mr R was unhappy with the part exchange  valuation  offered by 
the third-party he could  have declined the offer, gone elsewhere and thereby avoided what  
he sees as a loss.
For completeness I note, that Mr R could  have handed back the car to VWFS. If he had 
done that he could have  passed on what he calls the negative equity to VWFS. But that 
would have meant paying for the extra miles he had driven. The excess mileage charges 
were set out in the agreement. Since  both parties  entered freely into the agreement, I think  it 
is fair and reasonable they both be allowed to rely on its terms. And under the agreement Mr 
R would  have had to pay £1,800. I dont see that as a loss. It is merely  the payment Mr R 
had agreed to pay for the miles he had driven over and above what  he had agreed.
VWFS has sent us its file notes of its contact with Mr R. I dont see why those notes  would 
be inaccurate in the circumstances.  Mr R tells us he had calls with VWFS in 2018, in which  
he asked to voluntarily  terminate. VWFS no longer has any call recordings for 2018,  which  I 
dont find surprising in the circumstances. But that said, Id expect the file notes to reflect  
anything that was said in the calls. And there  is no mention of Mr R asking to end his 
agreement early. I recognise Mr R finds it convenient that the call recordings he says will 
prove his point are no longer available. But on balance, I am not persuaded Mr R did ask to 
voluntarily terminate.
It seems  that every option  that Mr R had open to him would have  ended  up with some 
payment being  made I can see that Mr R might  have found that regrettable,  but I dont agree 
that VWFSs actions unfairly caused  him to make a loss.
Ref: DRN77001614For all of these reasons, I am not satisfied that I have any proper grounds for asking VWFS  
to pay Mr R the compensation that he has asked it to pay.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service operates according to a set of rules  made  by the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) and referred  to as DISP. These rules 
determine, amongst  other things, who may bring  a complaint to us, whether a particular 
financial business is covered by the scheme and what types  of financial products and/or 
activities we can look at.
We arent able to deal with every type of complaint thats brought  to us. There are some  
situations where our terms  of reference dont allow us to deal with all of the issues  that have 
given rise to the complaint.
Mr R complained about the way VWFS handled his complaint. This was not the main thrust 
of his complaint,  but it was one of his complaint points.  
Im sorry  to disappoint him, but I cant look at that part of his complaint. Thats because 
complaint handling isnt an activity  listed within DISP.  Complaints  about  how a complaint has 
been dealt with simply are not something that falls within  the remit of this service. I realise 
this may be very galling for Mr R as he laid a some  emphasis on this issue  when he first 
brought his complaint to us. But, he can take this issue no further with our service.
Mr R appears  to believe that VWFS has adopted a blanket policy  of behaving  in a way that is 
prejudicial for its customers. He asks us to look into VWFSs operations. I dont doubt his 
strength of feeling  about that. However,  this service  does not supervise or regulate financial 
businesses. Our role is to investigate and determine the individual disputes that are brought  
to us. I have no power to undertake the sort of investigation that he has asked  for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7700161