K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out over the 
phone with a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs L say they didnt know they had taken out PPI.
Santander hasnt  been able to send us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls application form for the 
mortgage. But I have  seen a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs L confirming that their PPI 
policy had been  set up.
Based on what I understand about  Santanders sales practices  at the time,  I also think  its 
likely that the script the advisor  followed in the sales call wouldve prompted them to explain 
to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice about  the PPI.
Santander has also sent us records from the policy insurer, showing Mr and Mrs L calling it 
about the policy and that Mr and Mrs L made  a successful  claim on the policy.  This suggests 
Mr and Mrs L were  aware they had the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Santander did make  it clear to Mr and 
Mrs L that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs L chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs L have sent us copies of Mrs Ls medical  records,  as they dont think they did 
make a claim on the policy. But, even if Mr and Mrs L didnt make  a claim on the policy,  I still 
think its likely Santander made it clear to them that they had a choice about taking it out.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them.
Mr and Mrs L have said that the policy was set up to cover Mr L, and that this was wrong as 
he wasnt working at the time. And I can see the policy schedule sent to them  did show  Mr L 
would receive the benefit of the policy. But the insurers records show  Mrs L was covered  
and would receive the benefit of the policy. So it appears the information on the policy 
schedule was incorrect and the policy did cover Mrs L.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, it doesnt appear that she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out 
for longer than shes told us she wouldve received sick pay. And it wouldve meant  Mr and 
Ms L wouldnt have needed to rely on their savings  to make their mortgage repayments  if 
Mrs L wasnt earning. So I think the policy was right for them.
Ref: DRN73715332As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs L clear  
information about the policy. Its possible the information it gave them  about  the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and 
Mrs Ls property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think 
they couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I 
think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been  useful  for Mr and Mrs L if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs L off taking  it out.
Mr and Mrs L have said they have had a similar  complaint upheld by another  business. But 
the Financial Ombudsman Service looks at each  complaint individually.  And, as Ive 
explained above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7371533