K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs C says that she didnt know she had MPPI, but I think BoS made it clear that Mrs C 
didnt have to take out MPPI  and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of Mrs Cs mortgage  application form  on 
this I can see that the MPPI is presented as an optional product, and a choice has been 
made about the level of cover required. Mrs C has then gone on to sign her mortgage 
application, agreeing to the information on it.   
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs C about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - so it would  
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI  would have  put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs C.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mrs C because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - but the points raised dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN79275042The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7927504