K820x#14complaint
Mrs X complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted  unfairly  and unreasonably when 
dealing with her home  emergency claim.  She wants compensation.
background
Mrs X had a home emergency policy with Great Lakes, which dealt with sudden  unexpected 
events, such as leaks, but didnt cover  the costs of a permanent repair. Her washing 
machine leaked  and an engineer came; he isolated  the leak and said that a new hose was 
required. Mrs X wasnt happy about the service  provided (she said the hose didnt need 
replacing according to another  engineer and all that the original engineer had done was 
isolate the leak). She also said that the Great Lakes engineer broke a much  cherished 
platter. Mrs X wanted the money shed paid and her extra washing costs refunded and 
compensation for the platter.
Mrs X complained to Great Lakes.  PMS  responded on its behalf and said the engineer 
denied breaking  the platter. It noted  that from the pictures  taken by the engineer before work 
started, it seemed the platter was beneath  a pile of unstable crockery  and there were  other  
broken items in the picture. It didnt think that there  was any evidence that the engineer  had 
broken the platter. PMS also said that its engineer isolated the washing machine and the 
leak stopped;  it noted that the second engineer was likely to have removed  the hose and 
mightve tightened it, but this wasnt likely  to be a full repair  as the hose  might  fail again. 
PMS said that Mrs Xs policy didnt  cover repairing the machine; all that its engineer  had to 
do was stop the leak and this had been  done.
Mrs X complained to us. The investigators view was that Great Lakes had provided  the 
service required under the policy; it stopped  the leak. She also didnt think that the evidence 
showed that it was likely the engineer broke the platter, given the pictures  taken by the 
engineer before he started work and the fact that Mrs X didnt  mention  the broken platter 
when he was present.
Mrs X disagreed. She said that there was nothing wrong with her washing machine and the 
engineer had caused her to waste money  buying a new hose. Mrs X said she was still using 
the old hose and all the Great Lakes engineer did was to stop the leak and told her to get 
someone else to fix it. The investigator said in that case it was likely  the leak would reappear 
and she remained of the view that the evidence didnt show the engineer  broke the platter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the policy simply requires Great Lakes engineer  to stop the 
leak; it doesnt require  him to carry out a permanent  repair. Mrs X herself accepts the 
engineer stopped the leak by isolating the washing machine. A permanent repair is not 
something covered  by the policy, so the engineers advice  that a new hose was required was 
simply advice,  and not something  he was required to do under the policy. And in any event, I 
cant say that his advice was unfair or unreasonable; leaks  often come from the hose and its 
likely that the leak will reappear if Mrs X is using the old one based on the evidence available 
to me.
Ref: DRN71263312Mrs X feels  that the engineer broke the platter and says that she only discovered it after hed 
left her property. I wasnt present at the time so have to decide what  is more likely than not 
to have happened based on the evidence available. Mrs X didnt see the engineer  break the 
platter; the engineer denies  doing  so. The photos taken  by the engineer  to show the work 
site before he started work shows the platter  was underneath  a pile of unstable crockery  on 
the floor. The item wasnt put in a safe place  and there are broken items nearby. I cant  say 
that the evidence shows that its more likely than not that the platter  was broken by the 
engineer. And I note that the terms and conditions of the policy excludes any liability  for 
damage to contents.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs X to accept or reject my decision before 
6 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7126331