K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1999. Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Ls representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally,  it has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set that detailed information out 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr L has said the PPI was just included on his card. But the application form for the card 
had a Payment Protection Plan section with boxes to tick to say either yes or no to 
the cover   and this section was listed under the heading Optional Features. On Mr Ls 
form, which he signed to take the card, the yes box for the PPI is ticked  - and I think  he 
wouldve known that if he didnt want the cover  the no box should  be ticked  instead. So, 
with all this in mind, from what I have I think it more likely Lloyds made it clear Mr L didnt 
have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence of Mr Ls circumstances at the time shows  it wasnt fundamentally wrong  or 
unsuitable for him. From what hes told us, hed been with his employer two years, was 
entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness or redundancy and didnt  have any 
other means, like savings, to pay his card with if he couldnt work. He was eligible for the 
cover - and had a need for it bearing in mind  the limited means  he had to fall back on.
I say this bearing in mind  the policy monthly  benefit. Lloyds says this was 10% of the 
outstanding balance, paid for up to twelve months  for a successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim. I havent seen a persuasive  suggestion  that this wasnt the benefit 
and Ive nothing  that persuades me Mr L wouldnt have found the likely benefit  useful  in 
his circumstances,  given  the loss of income  hed suffer in case of unemployment or 
disability  and the lack of other  means he had to cover his card payments. Also,  nothing  
about his employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for him to claim.
Ref: DRN79593472Mr L has told us he saw a GP and took painkillers for a health condition  19 years before 
the sale and for pain suffered around  12 years before  the sale.  He later told us the two 
issues were linked  and confirmed his condition,  which is typically ongoing in nature, 
was ongoing.  He added he experienced problems, including pain and discomfort,  on a 
regular basis and takes prescribed medication  to ease  the symptoms.  I proceed on the 
basis that Mr L couldnt claim for work  absences arising from this existing health  issue.
But Mr L hasnt, in what he said at first or later, said he missed  work as a result of his 
condition. The fact it hadnt kept him off work in the previous 19 years (or the absences 
werent noteworthy enough to mention)  doesnt,  of course, mean  it couldnt have kept 
him off work in future years. But on balance I dont  think the exclusion of such absences 
made the cover unsuitable for him, given he couldve also been kept off work in future 
years due to other sicknesses, or accident  or unemployment, which  the policy  did cover.
Overall, I conclude  the cover was suitable  and Lloyds wasnt  wrong  to recommend it. Id 
add that, except if related to a past or existing health  issue, Ive nothing  to suggest the 
policy placed additional restrictions on cover for mental health issues or back  problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, as I concluded above, the PPI wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  
for him. Also, I think he knew it was disability  and unemployment cover  costing 77p per 
£100 of his outstanding monthly balance, as this was stated on his application form (but 
this didnt tell the whole  story).  Also, he chose  to take the cover, so it looks  like he 
wanted this type of cover.  It also looks like it was affordable.
The exclusions Ive discussed aside, I dont think the PPI was too dissimilar to what  its 
likely Mr L, from the information he had, thought he was buying. Given  what  it covered, it 
seems it wouldve still been  useful for him. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I 
dont think Mr L wouldve declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr L wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances it couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work in the circumstances the policy  
covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think its likely he wouldve taken the policy  in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Lloyds should have  disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
Mr Ls representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ive thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case.  But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  uphold  this 
complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN79593473my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7959347