K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Legal & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) declined  his pet insurance 
claim for his dogs arthritis. My references to L&G include its agents
background 
Mr H took out lifetime pet insurance  for his dog, insured by L&G, on 14 November 2017.
On 31 January 2018 Mr H took his dog to the vet as shed  started  limping. The vet did scans 
and Mr Hs dog was diagnosed with arthritis  and prescribed medication. Mr H claimed on his 
insurance.
L&G declined the claim. The policy didnt cover  an illness that first showed clinical  signs  
before the policy stared. The dogs vet notes  showed that in the dogs September 2017 
annual check up she was stiffer in her back legs after walks. The vet assessment was that 
she had ddx (differential diagnosis) arthritis and was overweight. L&G said the arthritis had 
first shown clinical signs before the policy started so wasnt covered.
Mr H complained. He said his vet hadnt mentioned the possibility of arthritis to him in 
September 2017. The vet wrote to L&G explaining  why there was no firm diagnosis  of 
arthritis at that time. Mr H also said L&G had told the vet practice the arthritis pre-existing 
condition had been removed from the policy. But L&G continued to decline the claim.
Our investigator thought L&G had fairly declined the claim.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans  decision. He says the vet's evidence shows  
there were no definite signs  that his dog had arthritis before the policy started. He wants 
L&G to remove arthritis  as a pre-existing condition on the policy and pay the arthritis claim.
Before I made my decision I asked L&G what questions Mr H was asked at the sale of the 
policy. L&G provided  the information  which I referred to in my provisional decision below.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
pre-existing condition
The policy doesnt  cover:
an illness that first showed clinical signs before the start of the policy or
a pre-existing condition, which includes a condition diagnosed or undiagnosed  
showing signs, symptoms, manifesting or existing in any form before the start of the 
policy.
The policy defines  clinical  signs as changes  in your pets normal  healthy state, its bodily 
functions or behaviour.
The September 2017 vet notes do show Mr H told the vet his dog had a non-specific  
stiffness on walks. He didnt go to the vet because of that issue  but it arose  as part of the 
discussion at the annual check up.
Ref: DRN75892542The vet notes show a differential diagnosis of arthritis. Thats not the same as a full 
diagnosis. The treating vets evidence says:
a possible differential  diagnosis of arthritis was suggested for this change in mobility.  The 
only diagnosis made during  this visit was that the patient was overweight and needed  to 
reduce calorie  intake  to make mobility  easier.  No swelling, crepitus,  decreased range of 
motion or other symptoms to support a diagnosis  of arthritis were recorded.  Also no 
symptoms specific to the stifle were  described. Therefore exclusion for a diagnosis of 
arthritis is not justified based  on these  notes.
The vet is clear that the range of symptoms to support a diagnosis  of arthritis werent present 
in September  2017. No treatment for possible arthritis was prescribed at that point. On the 
vet evidence I dont  think L&G can fairly  say that the dogs stiffness in walking was a clinical 
sign of arthritis.
Even if I did accept that the stiffness  on walking  was a sufficient clinical  sign of arthritis I still 
dont think L&G can fairly decline  the claim.
In deciding whether  an insurer can fairly and reasonably decline a claim  in such a matter 
I consider whether the consumer knew there was something wrong  with their pet which  
could likely  lead to investigation or treatment.
Mr H says in September the vet didnt tell him his dog possibly had arthritis.  The vets 
evidence doesnt  mention  if Mr H was told but, even if he didnt know about the possibility of 
arthritis, Mr H did know his dog was sometimes stiff after her walk.
However, I dont think Mr H knew or should  have reasonably known that the stiffness  could 
likely lead to investigation  or treatment. The vet's only advice in September 2017 was that 
the dog lose weight. There was no indication to Mr H that she may have a medical  condition  
that would  require investigation  or treatment at that point.
In contrast, when  the dog saw the vet on 31 January 2018  with new symptoms the vet 
recommended blood  tests  and x-ray due to probable arthritis. That was two and half months 
after the policy started.
Overall, I dont  think L&G fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis  that the dog 
had a pre-existing condition and/or  had shown clinical signs of arthritis before the policy 
started.
exclusion
The policy also says that if Mr Hs dog first showed  any clinical  signs  or was diagnosed  with 
an illness before  the start of the policy L&G will apply an exclusion to the policy  in respect of 
the condition.
I havent seen  confirmation from L&G that it added a specific exclusion for arthritis  to the 
policy but its conversations with the vet practise suggest it has.
If L&G has added an exclusion for arthritis on the policy  I dont know whether the exclusion 
was worded so that it applied with effect from the start of the policy.  L&G needs to clarify if it 
Ref: DRN75892543has put an exclusion on the policy, and if so the wording, in response to my provisional  
decision.
For the avoidance of doubt, L&G cant fairly  and reasonably add a specific  exclusion in 
respect of arthritis on the basis that it was a pre-existing  condition for the reasons above.
In addition, L&G didnt  ask Mr H any clear questions during  the sale of the policy  relating  to 
past vet treatment or signs/symptoms of any illness for his dog. So it couldnt  fairly add an 
exclusion from the start of the policy on the basis of any misrepresentation.
L&G cant  fairly rely on any specific exclusion for arthritis  its added to the policy to decline 
the claim.
other matters
Ive noted the vet practice said L&G had told it the pre-existing  condition exclusion would be 
removed. Its not clear from L&Gs notes if the practice were misinformed or whether if it was 
part of the confusion around  the cruciate  ligament  treatment claim. In any event, theres  no 
basis for me to say that L&G should pay Mr H compensation about  its service.
L&G must pay the claim for arthritis subject to the remaining policy  terms, conditions and 
limits. I understand that the vet bills for the disputed arthritis treatment remain outstanding. If 
they have now been paid Mr H should tell me in response to my provisional decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  agreed my provisional  decision. As various claims had been made, most 
submitted as arthritis  but then re-categorised as cruciate, L&G sent details of the claims that 
it thought it should now pay. Mr H agreed the details.  Mr H said he would tell the vet the 
payments would be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree my provisional decision I have no reason to change my mind. 
L&G hasnt clarified  whether  it had put an exclusion on the policy,  and if so the wording. For 
the avoidance of doubt Ive made my decision on the basis  that it added an exclusion  on the 
policy in respect of arthritis with effect  from the start of the policy.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional findings  and these findings I uphold  the complaint. 
L&G must pay Mr Hs claim for arthritis treatment subject to the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and limits.  It must  also remove any exclusion on the policy in respect of arthritis 
with effect from the start of the policy. The parties have agreed the details of the claims L&G 
should now pay.
As Mr H hasnt  already  paid the vet bills Ive not added interest to the award.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN75892544I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to:
pay Mr Hs claim  for arthritis treatment subject to the remaining policy  terms, 
conditions and limits,  and
remove any exclusion on the policy in respect of arthritis with effect from the start of 
the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7589254