K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). She said the benefit  she received from the policy  was significantly lower than 
she expected.  
References to Bank of Scotland include the actions of its subsidiary businesses operating 
under other trading  names. 
background
In 2003 Mrs R met with a Bank of Scotland adviser  to arrange a mortgage.  She took out a 
repayment mortgage for £18,000 over a 5 year term. Having assessed Mrs Rs 
circumstances, and her borrowing, the adviser  recommended she take out a TMPP with life 
and critical illness cover. The policy provided  £18,000 of benefit  over a five year term to 
match the mortgage borrowing.
Mrs R borrowed  an additional £16,000 between  2003 and 2005,  and increased  her 
mortgage term to 15 years.  
In 2007 she met with another adviser at Bank  of Scotland to arrange an additional £10,000  
borrowing. This increased her overall  mortgage borrowing to £32,822 which was to be repaid 
over 13 years and 5 months. In view of her increased mortgage debt, the adviser 
recommended she take out a new TMPP with life and critical illness cover.  The policy  
provided £33,000 of cover  which decreased  over a 13 year term. This policy  replaced the 
policy sold in 2003. 
Before the new policy went on risk, Mrs R contacted  Bank  of Scotland to cancel the 
additional £10,000 borrowing shed previously arranged. She said she asked  
Bank of Scotland about her cover but was told that if she was still taking out borrowing 
elsewhere itd be sensible to keep the additional cover in place. 
Mrs R was sadly diagnosed with breast  cancer  in 2018. She made a claim on the policy.  She 
expected to receive £33,000 in benefit, but was disappointed  to discover the benefit  had 
been decreasing over the policy term and so shed receive considerably less than she 
expected. 
Mrs R complained to Bank  of Scotland that the policy had been mis-sold to her. She argued 
shed have been better off if shed kept the policy she took out in 2003.  She also said she 
wasnt aware the policy benefit decreased over time.  She didnt  think this was suitable for 
her circumstances.    
Bank of Scotland reviewed its documentation  from the time of the sale but didnt agree the 
policy had been  mis-sold.  It was satisfied the TMPP was suitable for Mrs Rs circumstances 
at the time. 
Mrs R remained  unhappy so referred  the complaint to our service. 
Bank of Scotland reconsidered  its position.  While it maintained the TMPP was broadly  
suitable for Mrs Rs needs and circumstances at the time, it noted  that when she cancelled 
the further £10,000 advance on her mortgage no changes were made to the TMPP. This 
meant that she had more  cover than she strictly  needed.  It said it would be prepared  to 
Ref: DRN70274322refund the premiums  Mrs R had paid towards  the policy,  plus 8% interest. But it said that any 
claim settlement she received would have to be deducted from this figure. As the claim 
payment Mrs R received  was more than the premiums  paid shed paid it said she wouldnt 
receive anything  further. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He was persuaded the policy 
was broadly suitable for Mrs Rs needs at the time given her increased  mortgage debt and 
term. He explained  she wouldnt  have been in a better position  had she kept her original 
policy as it was due to expire in 2008. He also wasnt  persuaded the evidence supported that 
Mrs R wanted level cover at the time, or that it would have been suitable for her needs. 
Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  She said she wasnt  
provided with the sales documentation at the time. She also said if she was told the cover  
was decreasing at the time she wouldnt have  taken any cover out. 
So the case has been passed to me to consider  afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  This means  that Im not 
upholding it. I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Mrs R, so Id like to explain how 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
Given Mrs Rs concerns  about the sale of the policy in 2007, Ive carefully considered her 
circumstances at the time to consider whether the policy was suitable  for her needs. Ive also 
considered what  information  Bank of Scotland provided her with at the time to see whether 
she could make an informed decision on whether  or not to take out the cover. 
When Mrs R met with an adviser in 2007  her borrowing had increased significantly since 
2003 and the mortgage term had been  extended to 13 years and 5 months.  As a result the 
TMPP shed taken out in 2003 no longer offered  her suitable protection.  It didnt provide 
sufficient cover to protect the mortgage  debt and was due to expire  in 2008, long before her 
mortgage would be repaid. 
At the time the TMPP was recommended  Mrs R was intending to borrow a further £10,000  
which wouldve increased her overall borrowing to £32,822. Within the Demands and Needs 
statement that was completed at the time it noted Mrs R wanted to ensure her mortgage was 
repaid in the event that she were  to die or be diagnosed with a critical illness. Im satisfied 
that the TMPP Bank of Scotland recommended broadly achieved this need.  
The TMPP was due to expire slightly earlier than her mortgage would be repaid  it was to 
run for 13 years compared to 13 years and 5 months that were  left to run on Mrs Rs 
mortgage. But given  that Mrs R had a repayment  mortgage the majority of the debt wouldve 
been repaid after 13 years. So while the policy didnt  specifically match the mortgage  term it 
offered reasonable protection and so I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
In the same  way, while the TMPP offered marginally more cover  than Mrs R needed to 
protect her mortgage, I dont think this made it an unsuitable recommendation. The policy  
provided £33,000 of cover, £178 more than her anticipated mortgage debt at the time of the 
advice. I think its unlikely  the difference in sum assured wouldve made any difference  to the 
Ref: DRN70274323premium charged,  so I dont think it was unreasonable  to offer a policy  that slightly exceeded 
the mortgage debt. 
So having  carefully considered Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of the advice, I think  the 
TMPP recommended was suitable and met her needs at the time. 
Mrs R has said that she shouldnt have  been  sold a decreasing policy,  and that a level term 
would have been more suitable.  Having considered the documentation from the time of the 
sale I dont agree. 
Mrs Rs recorded needs at the time of the sale were to ensure her mortgage was repaid. As 
her mortgage was arranged on a repayment  basis, a decreasing term policy was the most 
suitable policy to achieve this. I cant see any evidence that Mrs R wanted cover  in excess of 
her mortgage debt. And if she had, a level term policy wouldnt have been the most suitable 
way of achieving  that aim. 
The policy documentation Bank of Scotland has been able to provide clearly explains that 
Mrs R had been sold a decreasing term assurance  plan, which meant the policy benefits 
would reduce on each policy anniversary. She was also provided with a Decreasing Term 
Assurance Benefit  Table which broke  down  how the benefit would reduce over the life of the 
policy.   
Ive considered Mrs Rs suggestion  that she wouldve been better off if the old policy had 
remained in place. But like the investigator, I dont think she wouldve been. The policy  was 
due to expire ten years before Mrs R needed  to make a claim, so had the old policy been left 
in place Mrs R wouldnt have had any cover in place when she needed to claim.  
Mrs R has said that had she understood the cover that was being sold she wouldnt have 
taken it out. But if I were to follow this through to its natural conclusion Mrs R would now be 
in a worse position  than she currently  finds herself  in. Thats  because  she wouldnt have 
received any claim benefit following her unfortunate diagnosis  of cancer. 
I know Mrs R says she didnt receive  any paperwork about the policy that was being sold.  
But Bank of Scotland has been able to provide us with a copy  of a bundle of documents  that 
were sent to her on 22 June 2007. I can see that these  were addressed  to the same address 
we currently hold for Mrs R. So I think its more likely that these were sent to Mrs R, although 
I appreciate she may not have read them at the time.  
Im satisfied that these  documents clearly  set out what cover had been recommended  and 
why. A policy summary explained what the policy was designed to do, and the fact that 
benefits would decrease throughout the term. Mrs R was also provided with a notice  which 
explained she could  change her mind and cancel the policy  within 30 days, free of charge. 
Having carefully considered these documents I cant say Bank of Scotland  failed in its duty 
to provide Mrs R with clear, fair and not misleading information about the cover that had 
been recommended. 
I understand that the situation  changed  shortly after the advice was given as Mrs R decided  
to cancel her additional  borrowing. So Ive considered Bank of Scotlands offer to refund the 
premiums shes  paid into the policy, plus interest,  but less any amount shes  received in 
benefit. 
Ref: DRN70274324While I can understand Bank  of Scotlands reasons for making this offer, I dont consider it 
needed to do so. Even if I were to accept that Bank of Scotland shouldve  reviewed the 
advice it gave Mrs R after she cancelled her additional borrowing, I cant  see shes  lost out 
as a result  of it. As Mrs R has now made  a successful claim under the policy shes  received 
more in benefit than she wouldve received by way of a refund of premiums.  So I cant see 
shes suffered any loss, even if Bank of Scotlands  recommendation stopped  being  suitable 
when she cancelled her additional borrowing. But if this is something Mrs R wishes  to pursue 
with Bank  of Scotland shes free to do so.  
Having carefully considered Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that 
Bank of Scotland made a suitable recommendation of cover  that met Mrs Rs stated needs 
at the time. While her circumstances  changed  soon after, I cant  see Mrs R has lost out by 
not being advised to change her cover. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027432