K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan. Mr N says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him this policy.
background
Mr N applied for a loan of £5,000 in 2004 and he bought a single  premium  PPI policy at the 
same time. This type of policy cost £716 and meant that Mr N had to pay the full cost of the 
PPI cover in one up front payment which he also borrowed  from Nationwide. 
Both the loan and PPI had 60 month terms and attracted interest.  Mr N originally said he 
wasnt aware PPI had been  added to the loan but he also later said he chose to take the 
policy out after being told to do so by Nationwide.
Our adjudicator recommended  we shouldnt  uphold this complaint but Mr N disagreed with 
this. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Weve seen quite  a few similar  cases to this one and weve  spoken to Nationwide about  the 
processes that were  normally  followed in the course  of these types of sale. And I think  this 
would have involved a discussion  with the consumer about  their loan and other  
requirements, after which a credit agreement would have been printed  out for them to read 
and sign. 
Mr N said he wasnt aware of the PPI being  added to his loan. But I was sent a copy  of his 
original credit agreement from 2004 and because  of the way the PPI was described on this, I 
think Mr N would have been able to see it wasnt something he was required to have if he 
didnt want to. 
I can see, for example, that the PPI was described prominently on the agreement  as 
Optional Credit Insurance.  It then set out the cost of the loan, the cost of the PPI part of the 
loan and the sum of both these figures  below this heading. 
Mr N signed this form, so I think this shows, quite strongly, that he agreed to the cover and 
must have  known it was being set up for him. 
This wasnt an advised sale but Mr N was still entitled to be given information that was 
clear, so he could make  his own informed  decision  about buying PPI. 
I cant say for sure that Mr N was told everything he shouldve been and I can see some 
ways in which the form could have been improved. But I dont think this would have changed 
anything Mr N went on to do. This is because he was eligible for the PPI and I dont think 
that hed have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. 
Ref: DRN76208242Mr N said he already  had some sickness cover through  his job and that his family would 
have always stepped in to help.  So he implied  he didnt need the cover.
I understand the point that is being  made,  but the choice  about having PPI was for Mr N to 
make. Im also afraid  these things dont  necessarily mean the cover wasnt of use. I think  his 
sick pay would have  been relatively  modest and whilst Im sure his family would have 
wanted to help, their ability to do so would depend  on their circumstances over a relatively  
long time period. 
The PPI on the other  hand, would have been able to meet his loan repayments  for up to a 
year for unemployment. It would have covered him for longer, in the case  of disability.  It 
appears that the policy also provided a proportionate refund  if cancelled early. So overall, I 
think it was of use.
In summary,  I think the evidence shows Mr N asked  for  and agreed to - this PPI cover.  I 
think the way the costs  were disclosed wouldve allowed him to see what  he was required to 
pay and I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint or direct  
Nationwide Building  Society to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620824