K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Assetz  SME Capital Limited  (Assetz)  mis-sold an Individual  Savings Account 
(ISA) transfer promotion; is responsible for delaying  his ISA transfer (and loss of a bonus  in 
the promotion);  and misappropriated  his ISA funds (around £150,000) for eight days during 
the transfer and during which it should have been  in his account earning  interest.
background
Mr S pursuit was to transfer his ISA from a third party firm (the transferor) to Assetz (the 
transferee). A chronology  of the key events  (in 2018)  is as follows:
On 20 March Mr S completed  a Transfer Authority Form (TAF)  on Assetz  platform 
and sent the hard copy to Assetz by mail.
Assetz says it received the TAF on 27 March, processed it, forwarded it to the 
transferor firm and updated Mr S about this  all on the same  date.
On 12 April Assetz received Mr S ISA capital  from the transferor firm, but not the 
requisite completed  Transfer History Form (THF). [Mr S disputes this and says the 
transferor firm has informed him that the THF would have been sent along with the 
ISA funds on this date.]
On 20 April Assetz chased the transferor  firm for the THF and the transferor firm sent 
it by email on the same  date.
On 23 April, the next working date, the transfer process  was completed by Assetz  
and Mr S funds were allocated to his new ISA account.
Assetz explained the transfer promotion  with evidence of the terms of the promotion   
mainly as follows:
The promotion was for  an additional  1% p.a. gross target interest  on new lent 
funds via the Assetz Capital platform.
The promotions eligibility  period was from 12 March 2018 to 16 April 2018 (extended 
from an initial deadline date of 4 April), new investors needed to deposit and lend 
their funds   between the qualifying times  and dates  and the deadline in this 
respect was 11:59pm on 16 April 2018. The promotion terms also provided  that if an 
account holder  activated  the invest idle funds feature on the dashboard  swept  
funds will also be eligible for the  promotion. 
Receipt of both the transferred funds and the THF was required within the eligibility  
period in order for the account to be set up and in order  for Mr S to potentially benefit  
from the bonus. The THF was necessary to verify that the funds were  genuinely from 
an ISA and could  be deployed into Mr S new Assetz ISA account.
Mr S says Assetz  received his funds on 12 April and, based on what  the transferor firm has 
confirmed to him, it would  have received  the THF at the same time; even if it did not receive 
the THF at the same time it failed in its duty by not chasing for the THF earlier  in the eight  
days that followed its receipt of his funds (up to 20 April when it did chase); in either case  his 
account should have been  set up before the promotion deadline  of 16 April and Assetz  is 
responsible for that not happening; guidance  for cash ISA transfers is that they should be 
completed within 15 days so initiation of his transfer  request on 20 March gave Assetz  more 
than enough time to complete the transfer before 16 April;  Assetz also denied him interest 
for the relevant eight days as it held his funds but did not allocate them to his ISA account.
Ref: DRN79036452Assetz disputes the complaint; it maintains the THF was not received on 12 April and was 
not received until 20 April,  after the promotion deadline; it highlights chasing the transferor 
firm on 20 April and says there  were  no circumstances that made it necessary to chase 
earlier in the preceding eight days (after receipt  of the funds on 12 April); it refers to HMRCs  
guidance on ISA transfers which mentions a 30 days guideline for the process and says its 
transfer process was completed within 30 days of receiving Mr S TAF.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint  initially on the basis  of a promotion  
deadline date that was later corrected  she eventually and broadly agreed  with Assetzs 
points and she concluded that the complaint should not be upheld.  Mr S disagreed with this 
outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not satisfied that Mr S has established  a case in which  Assetz  was responsible for mis-
selling the promotion, for delaying his ISA transfer or for misappropriating his capital. I 
consider as follows:
At the outset  between Mr S sending the TAF to Assetz on 20 March  and Assetz  
receiving it on 27 March   there  appears  to have been no reason why Mr S 
application could  not have  met the promotion  conditions and benefitted from the 
promotion benefits. The relevant deadline was 16 April. I have not seen evidence to 
suggest the prospects of his transfer  application  being completed on or before this 
date were negative  or limited (from the outset)  so it does not appear  unreasonable  
that the promotion was made  available to him and I do not consider that it was mis-
sold. It is arguably wrong to view this in hindsight, knowing what is now known about 
the deadline being missed, but even within such a view it could be argued that if the 
THF was received by Assetz on 12 April the transfer would likely have been 
completed around then and within  the promotions eligibility period. Mr S claim that 
the promotion was mis-sold appears to be based on the notion that  from the outset 
 completion of his application was or could have  been  unlikely to meet the 
promotion deadline, but I am not persuaded that was the case.
On balance, I consider Assetzs account  of what it did and did not receive on 12 April 
to be reliable  it received Mr S fund but did not receive the relevant THF. Mr S has 
referred to no more than a suggestion from the transferor firm that the funds sent to 
Assetz on 12 April would have been  accompanied by the THF.  This does not 
amount to evidence  that the THF did (or even probably did) accompany the funds 
on 12 April. After  Assetz chased  the transferor firm on 20 April the transferor  firm did 
not say, in response, that it previously sent the THF to Assetz. Instead,  it sent Assetz  
the THF by email on the same date without question  it might  be worth noting  that 
its first attempt  to email the THF appears to have  omitted the THF attachment,  and 
its second attempt  was thereafter successful.  In the absence of evidence that the 
THF was certainly or probably sent to Assetz  on 20 April, I do not consider that it 
was. I also do not consider that Assetz was obliged to chase the transferor firm 
between 12 and 20 April.  Having  received the funds  on 12 April it was not 
unreasonable for it to allow some time thereafter  for receipt  of the THF and the 
transferor firms  responsibility to send the THF  without having  to be prompted to do 
so  should not be discounted. Assetz chased for the THF roughly around  a week  
Ref: DRN79036453after receiving the funds and I do not consider that unreasonable  in the 
circumstances of Mr S case. The guidance (and different time guidelines) both 
parties have mentioned is precisely that  a guidance  and even if Assetz is to be 
held, strictly,  to such guidance  that should  not mean  it is accountable for another  
firms responsibility to submit the THF. 
As Assetz  has explained, the THF was required within  its process in order  to ensure 
that any funds  received were connected  to an ISA  before such funds were  then 
allocated to one of its ISA accounts.  This is not an unreasonable  state  of affairs, 
given the specific  rules about the constitution and administration of ISAs. In the 
absence of the THF for Mr S transfer application   such  absence lasting between 
12 and 20 April,  after his funds were sent  Assetz could not allocate his funds to his 
account for this reason. This explains why his funds were  not misappropriated as he 
alleges. There were  around  eight  days, between both dates, before his funds  were  
allocated to his account and I understand his argument about lost interest  (especially 
given the size of his funds) but I neither accept that misappropriation by Assetz has 
been established nor do I accept that Assetz is responsible for any interest he 
considers to have  lost. With regards to the latter, Mr S funds were subject to the ISA 
transfer process and the eight days delay he has referred to were  a part of that 
process which, for reasons given above,  I do not consider Assetz responsible for.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 June  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903645