K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about advice given by Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight)  to 
transfer her existing self invested personal pension  (SIPP) to a new SIPP  with a different 
provider. Mrs C then invested  £123,893.80  of her SIPP fund in a property in Cape Verde. 
background
Mrs C was introduced to Insight by her mortgage adviser. On 18 March  2013 Insight sent 
Mrs C its confirmation of recommendations and financial planning report. It said Mrs C was 
53 and had a net monthly  income of £2,016.93  (she was employed as a teacher). She hadnt 
declared her monthly expenditure but had confirmed she had sufficient disposable income 
each month  to cover it. Her attitude  to risk (ATR) was medium/high and shed confirmed she 
wanted to take that level of risk in investing  the cash transferred to her new SIPP. The report 
noted Mrs C as having a moderate understanding of how investments work and the concept  
of investment risk.
The report  referred  to Mrs C at some point  in the near future wanting to use the 
functionality of being able to self invest. Her existing SIPP didnt meet  her requirements  as 
it was not totally open architecture as some  investment styles/ products cannot be held in 
[the] SIPP.  So Mrs C might not be able to get the investments she required. 
Insight recommended that Mrs C transfer.  The report  said Having now reviewed your 
existing plans, I recommend that you transfer it because during our recent  meetings we 
discussed your objective  was to make sure that you were with a SIPP  provider that would 
deliver good service  to allow  you to easily self invest in the future, offer full SIPP functionality 
including a vast range of potential investments but also be cost effective.
The report  added that the whole transfer  value should be invested  in cash. Mrs C didnt want  
to discuss her investment  strategy until the next meeting once the transfer  had been  
completed. The cash allocation was a holding position. Mrs Cs investment strategy would 
be discussed once  the transfer had completed. 
The new SIPP  application  was completed and signed by Mrs C 13 March 2013. The new 
SIPP was established  on 19 March 2013.
In April 2013 Mrs C had another  meeting  with Insight about a single contribution.  Insight said 
it would  initially be invested in cash until Mrs Cs existing pension  had also been transferred. 
The investments would be discussed  in further  detail once all funds were  with the new SIPP 
provider. The application was signed on 3 April 2013. And on 11 April 2013 £113,825.63 was 
transferred to Mrs Cs new SIPP. 
On 23 September  2013 an investment of £123,893.80 was made  in The Resort  Group,  
specifically a hotel  room in the Dunas Beach Resort in Cape Verde. I understand a later 
investment of around £5,000 was made  on 3 November 2015 in the Mariana  FTSE S&P 
Range Income Plan.
Mrs Cs complaint has been investigated  by one of our adjudicators. In her assessment 
dated 28 May 2019 the adjudicator upheld the complaint. In summary she said:
Insight had said Mrs C wanted to self invest and had discussed the Cape Verde 
investment with her mortgage broker. Insight had said it had only advised  on the 
Ref: DRN74296082transfer. That might be so but that didnt mean Insight wasnt responsible for Mrs Cs 
investment in the Cape Verde property. 
The adjudicator  referred to COBS 9.2.1R and COBS 9.2.2R. The adviser had to 
consider both the suitability of the transfer  and the proposed investment. 
Insight had said the new SIPP was cheaper  but that was based on the SIPP being 
invested in cash  and therefore  incurring  a nil annual fund charge. Insight was aware 
of the intended investment and that the fund wouldnt remain  in cash. Insight did 
inform Mrs C that charges might  increase once an investment  had been made. But 
as cash wasnt the intended investment the charges comparison wasnt fair. Without  
knowing the fees that would apply once the investment had been made it wasnt  
necessarily the case that the SIPP recommended would  be a cheaper option. 
Mrs C wouldnt  have been able to invest in the Cape  Verde  property via her existing 
SIPP. So a transfer to a SIPP provider that allowed that investment was necessary. 
So Mrs C was likely to have accepted any higher charges. But that assumed suitable 
advice on the proposed investment had been given. 
The investment  is an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). Its a hotel 
room in a resort in Cape  Verde.  That type of investment  exposes  investors  to 
significant risks such as illiquidity.  The majority  of Mrs Cs SIPP fund was invested in 
one fund. The lack of diversification  increased  the risks. Mrs Cs SIPP  was exposed 
to a higher level of risk than was appropriate  for her. 
Insight had established Mrs C had a Medium/ High attitude to risk. But she wasnt 
an experienced investor and she didnt have any previous investment experience in 
this type of asset. She had buy to let properties  but the risks of those werent akin to 
those associated with investing the overseas  Cape  Verde property  scheme. Mrs C 
wasnt familiar  with that type of investment. And it didnt mean  she was willing or had 
the capacity to take that level of risk with her SIPP, which represented a significant 
part of her overall pension planning. Given the risks, the Cape Verde investment 
wasnt a suitable  investment  for Mrs Cs SIPP. 
The adjudicator  referred to the alert issued  by the regulator  in January 2013. It made 
it clear advisers cant limit advice to the transfer and not consider the suitability  of the 
proposed underlying  investment. This alert was issued before Insight provided 
advice. So Insight  should have been aware  of it. But, in any event, the alert wasnt  
new. It reinforced existing  duties  under the COBS rules  and the regulators principles. 
Insight should  have assessed  the suitability of the Cape Verde investment
as well as the suitability of the SIPP transfer. Insight shouldnt have recommended 
Mrs C continue with the Cape Verde investment. Had she still wanted to invest,  
despite advice  against, she should have been  treated  as an insistent client.  
The adjudicator set out how Insight  should redress Mrs C. 
Insight didnt accept  the adjudicators findings.  In summary: 
It highlighted the schedule of properties  Mrs C holds and which evidences her more  
than adequate level of knowledge  of this asset class  and the risks, specifically 
liquidity. 
It explained the risks of this type of investment (although Mrs Cs experience meant 
she knew about those  anyway). If it hadnt transacted the transfer for her, shed have 
gone ahead  anyway with a different adviser. She was self invested and Insight didnt  
undertake the purchase.
The adjudicator  had referred to COBS 9.2.2R. Mrs C had relevant knowledge and 
experience and was already invested in this asset class.  She already had a SIPP so 
she was aware of this type of pension arrangement, the charges and that she could 
Ref: DRN74296083self invest. Her clear  objective was to invest in Cape Verde  a known asset class 
and a continuation of her property investment strategy. 
She had a number  of investment properties  which provided rental income. The 
pension was a small percentage of her overall  wealth and she wanted to use it to 
invest in an asset class she was already receiving  good  yields  from. Investing in buy 
to let properties is high risk and the Cape  Verde property investment  highlighted as 
high risk  was in line with Mrs Cs attitude  to risk. 
Wed ignored the fact that Mrs C had dealt with the purchase of the investment 
herself. If shed felt uncomfortable  with the investment at any point, she could have 
stopped the transaction after the SIPP was set up. Insight had no influence  over the 
investment purchase. The transfer to the SIPP was in April 2013.  The investment 
wasnt made until September 2013.  Mrs C had time to change her mind.  
Shed  paid the legal  fees to complete  on the purchase of the property. She now fully 
owns the property.  It is valued  using local property  values and theres a market for 
the property. Shes been getting rental income  from the Cape Verde property since  
May 2015.
Insight had regular  reviews with Mrs C and offered to meet her but she declined.  Her 
situation has changed since the advice  was given. 
The adjudicator considered Insights  comments but she didnt change  her view. She said: 
Mrs C had a number  of property investments. But that didnt mean she was 
experienced in investing  in UCIS. That wasnt  the same as investing in buy to let 
properties. 
Mrs C transferred to a SIPP capable of holding the Cape Verde property. Insight  
should have considered  the underlying investment as part of its advice. Had it done 
so, it should have advised Mrs C against  investing. 
Insight hadnt  undertaken the purchase, which was some  months  after the SIPP  had 
been set up. But Insight had recommended  the wrapper so that Mrs C could invest  in 
the Cape Verde property. Insight was ultimately  responsible for the investment. 
Mrs Cs personal  situation may have  changed. But the adjudicator had based her 
assessment on Mrs Cs circumstances as at the time the advice was given. 
Wed seen evidence  that the SIPP provider required  the completion  costs to be paid 
from the scheme account. There was a contractual obligation to complete the 
purchase. 
Any income received  from the investment would be taken  into account in the loss 
assessment the adjudicator had recommended. 
In response, Insight  reiterated a number  of points, including that Mrs C had experience of 
investing in property; shed made it clear at the outset she wanted to self invest and make  
her own investment choices; she had very detailed knowledge of property investing; shed 
be considered  a high net worth client; and Insight  hadnt been involved in the purchase  of 
the Cape Verde property. Insight didnt  agree  that, as it had recommended the wrapper,  it 
was responsible for the investment. Mrs Cs existing SIPP wouldnt allow the investment, 
hence Insight  recommended a new SIPP. Mrs C now fully owned the property and income 
was being paid into her SIPP so the investment had done what  it was intended to do. 
Ive seen that more  recently Insight reviewed this matter  and made some further comments. 
As well as stressing some points made  earlier, Insight referred  to Mrs Cs assets prior to the 
purchase of any properties  in conjunction  with her father. Shed be classed as having an 
extensive knowledge of property investments as an asset class, regardless of whether these 
were UK or overseas  based. Insight added that regular review meetings were  held but 
Ref: DRN74296084during 2018 Mrs C wasnt available, despite Insight trying to contact her. Insight queried 
why, if Mrs C was unhappy with the investment, she didnt raise it with Insight who was 
unaware of her dissatisfaction until she appointed a claims manager in January 2019. 
The adjudicator had mentioned the costs of the new SIPP. But Insight couldnt  have  
completed a full cost comparison  when it wasnt aware of the investments Mrs C was going 
to make.  Her pension provision is a small  part of her overall wealth, much of which is 
invested in property. Shed never  had any issue with any of the investments, including the 
buy to let properties, but her situation had changed  and her cash assets had been depleted. 
Mrs C and her representative agreed with the adjudicators findings. About what  Insight had 
said about not having any input  into the purchase  of the Cape Verde property,  Mrs Cs 
representative said Insights adviser was a director of a company which was involved in the 
sale of the Cape Verde properties  on behalf  of The Resort Group.  The adviser had a conflict 
of interest which he should  have declared  in accordance  with Insights terms of engagement. 
Mrs C also refuted the suggestion  shed turned down  opportunities to review. She had 
regular meetings. She only refused  to meet when she became aware  shed been  given  
unsuitable advice.  Mrs C also forwarded an update shed received from The Resort Group in 
August 2019 about delays and difficulties in making  rent payments. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  Im sorry 
that its taken longer  than wed have liked to reach this stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the adjudicator  and with the reasons she gave that Mrs Cs 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Insight couldnt  just advise Mrs C on the transfer or the pension vehicle, here the (new) 
SIPP. I think Insight knew Mrs C intended to invest in a property in Cape Verde.  The transfer 
was driven by the fact that Mrs Cs existing SIPP provider wouldnt permit  that investment. 
Insight recommended a new SIPP provider that would allow the investment. And, even if 
Insight was unaware of the intended  investment, it should have found out. Insight  couldnt  
limit its advice to the SIPP itself.  The intended underlying investment was part and parcel  of 
the transfer. The regulators January 2013  alert made that clear.  Insight should  have 
considered the suitability  of the intended investment. 
I dont agree with what Insight has said about why investing the majority  of her pension  in a 
property in Cape  Verde was suitable  for Mrs C. She may have said she was prepared to 
take a medium  or high risk with her SIPP  fund.  She did have some other pension provision. 
But it appears limited. The SIPP was a significant part of her overall pension  planning.  The 
bulk of her SIPP fund was invested  in a single, higher risk, unregulated scheme. The lack of 
diversification increased the level of risk to which Mrs Cs pension  was exposed. That 
investment strategy  involved more  risk than the medium to high risk that Mrs C had said she 
was prepared to take. 
Insight has said Mrs C was an experienced buy to let investor.  It seems  Mrs C and her father 
were introduced to Insight  in early 2013. From the notes  Ive seen I dont think  Mrs C was at 
that stage already invested in buy to let properties. Her income is recorded as being  made  
Ref: DRN74296085up of her earnings as a teacher  and maintenance payments from her former  husband.  
Theres no mention that she was in receipt of rental  income. It looks like the buy to let 
investment strategy  had yet to be put into effect. And the recommendation letter refers to 
Mrs C having recently  bought properties  to let out. So, when  Insight advised  Mrs C about her 
SIPP, shed only had very limited experience as a property  investor.  
But, even  if thats  wrong  and Mrs C was an experienced buy to let investor, I dont think  that 
means investing in the Cape Verde property was suitable for her. Most people  will probably 
be familiar with and understand, to some  extent at least, buy to let as an investment concept. 
There are risks, including  illiquidity  which is a risk factor  for property  as an asset class 
generally. But buy to let investment doesnt  mean that an investor is knowledgeable about 
investments generally.  I note that on the financial questionnaire dated  February/March 2013 
Mrs C described  herself as having very little investment understanding/knowledge. Although 
the suitability report said something different  that she had a moderate understanding  of 
how investments work and the concept  of investment risk. 
In any event, I dont think  investing in physical  UK properties, which are under the investors 
direct control, is directly  comparable  with the Cape Verde investment Mrs C actually made. 
She didnt  have any experience of overseas property developments or of investing  in a 
complex, higher  risk, non mainstream, unregulated  collective scheme with multiple risk 
factors. Leaving aside  liquidity  risks there  are development,  currency and operational risks. 
There was no track  record for the investment. These  types of schemes usually  involve a high 
element of gearing, or borrowing. The regulator  has said that they are unlikely  to be suitable  
for the vast majority of ordinary retail clients and then usually only for a proportion  of an 
investors funds. Investing in Cape Verde cant properly be described as a continuation of 
Mrs Cs existing investment strategy, simply because it was a property based scheme.  
I recognise Mrs C may have had some  capacity for loss. As well as her own assets, she 
stood to inherit from her father. And she already held a SIPP  so she was presumably familiar 
with the advantages (for example, a wider range of permitted investments) and the 
disadvantages (such  as potentially higher charges) that type of pension  vehicle offered. But, 
if the proposed  investment wasnt suitable, then Insight shouldnt have recommended  that 
Mrs C transfer  to the new SIPP (and specifically to allow the Cape Verde investment).  
I havent ignored the fact that Mrs C dealt with the purchase of the investment herself. But if 
Insight hadnt  recommended the transfer and facilitated it then Mrs C wouldnt have been in 
a position to undertake the purchase. 
The transfer to the new SIPP was completed in April 2013 and the investment  wasnt  made 
until September 2013. So Mrs C did have time to change her mind. But she had no reason 
not to go ahead  Insight  had recommended  the transfer on the basis  Mrs C was going to 
invest in Cape Verde.  Insight then dealt with the transfer which put Mrs C in a position to 
proceed as shed planned and as Insight knew she intended to do. I dont see why Mrs C 
would have thought again about the investment.  
Had Insight advised  her against  transferring and investing  in Cape Verde, its possible Mrs C 
may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if Insight had 
advised against on the basis  the investment wasnt suitable, that would have  made Mrs C 
think about things  again. I dont see any reason to assume, where a consumer has been  
referred to an adviser for independent financial advice, he or she would simply disregard 
advice against  a particular course of action. If Insight had told Mrs C it couldnt  recommend 
Ref: DRN74296086the transfer and explained  why  that the proposed investment was too risky  I think that 
would have given  Mrs C pause for thought. 
And the process  that would  have  needed  to have  been followed if Insight had advised Mrs C 
not to transfer  wouldnt  have made it easy for Mrs C to have gone ahead. Im not sure if 
Insight would have  been prepared to treat her as an insistent client   that is one who still 
wanted to proceed  despite advice to the contrary. Not all firms will be prepared  to undertake 
a transaction on an insistent client  basis.  Even if Insight had been prepared  to treat Mrs C as 
an insistent client, that would have involved discussing with her (and recording her reasons) 
why she was prepared  to proceed  despite  advice to the contrary.  Again I think that would  
have concentrated  Mrs Cs mind on whether she should go ahead as shed planned. I think 
shed have reconsidered. So I think Insights unsuitable advice did cause Mrs Cs losses. Im 
not persuaded that shed  have gone  ahead anyway and if Insight had advised  against. 
Mrs C paid the legal fees to complete on the purchase of the Cape Verde property. But I 
think she was contractually  obliged to do that. She now fully owns the property and in theory  
she could sell it. But that will depend  on if, as Insight  suggests, there really is a secondary 
market. If Insight takes ownership of the property  then it can test that. As my view is that the 
investment was unsuitable for Mrs C, I dont see she should bear the risk that any liquidity 
issues cant be overcome. Any rental income  that Mrs C has received will be taken into 
account in the redress  calculation  although  my understanding is that any rental payments 
have now ceased.    
I note what Insight had said about Mrs Cs situation having changed. But my conclusions  are 
based on what her financial and personal circumstances were at the time the advice was 
given, rather than what may have happened since. 
Insight has also said it didnt realise Mrs C was unhappy until it was contacted  by her 
representative in early 2019. My understanding is that a complaint was made  earlier than 
that, in October  2018. Ive seen earlier emails  from Mrs C in 2018 expressing  concern about 
her SIPP, the Cape Verde property and other  issues. 
I note whats been said about the adviser having a conflict of interest. If the adviser did hold 
the position Mrs Cs representative has suggested,  Id agree there was a conflict of interest 
that the adviser should have declared.  But my decision turns on fact that Insight couldnt 
restrict its advice to the transfer  itself without considering the suitability of the proposed 
underlying investment and which I dont consider was suitable  for Mrs C. 
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I think the redress the adjudicator suggested  was fair and 
reasonable so, in the main, Ive adopted it. Any payment for future  SIPP fees would only be 
on the basis that the SIPP cant be closed   that is if Insight isnt willing or able to take 
ownership of the Cape  Verde investment. And, if Insight does take ownership,  it will be 
entitled to any further amounts that are paid from the investment  whether future rental 
income or if the sale proceeds if the property can in fact be realised. If Insight isnt willing or 
able to buy the Cape Verde investment then Insight may want to ask Mrs C for an 
undertaking. Any rental income payments Mrs C has received and which have been paid 
into the SIPP will be reflected in the current actual  transfer value of the SIPP and so taken 
into account in the calculation. 
My aim is to return Mrs C to the position that shed now be in, if shed received suitable 
advice. It is not easy to say what that position  would be, but my view is that Mrs C wouldnt 
have transferred her existing SIPP to the new SIPP arrangement.  So the award  should  
Ref: DRN74296087compare the value her previous SIPP would now have, if she had remained with the same  
provider in the same funds.
Valuing the Cape  Verde  investment may prove difficult. As Ive said above, Mrs C should  be 
compensated now to allow her to plan for her future. For the purposes of calculating 
compensation a value  should be agreed  with the SIPP provider as a commercial value. 
Insight should  then pay the sum agreed  and take ownership of the investment. 
Therefore, Insight should:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Cs previous SIPP, as at the date of settlement, 
on the basis that it wasnt transferred.
2. Obtain the actual  transfer value of Mrs Cs SIPP as at the same  date. 
3. Pay a commercial  value and take ownership  of Mrs Cs Cape Verde investment. Insight 
should agree  with the SIPP provider a commercial  value  for the investment.  Insight should  
then pay the sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the Cape Verde investment.
In my view, this is the fairest  way of putting Mrs C back in the position  she would have been 
in. This would allow for the Cape Verde  investment  to be removed from the SIPP and for the 
SIPP to be closed. However, if Insight is unable or unwilling to buy the Cape Verde 
investment, then Insight  should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating 
compensation.
If Insight had provided Mrs C with suitable  advice I dont think Mrs C would have her current 
SIPP. So its not fair if she has to continue to pay annual SIPP fees if the Cape Verde 
investment prevents the SIPP from being  closed (and Mrs C transferring to a new and 
potentially cheaper  pension arrangement). So if the SIPP cant  be closed, Insight should pay 
Mrs C an upfront lump sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees). This gives a reasonable period to arrange  for the SIPP  to be closed.
Insight may ask Mrs C to give an undertaking to give Insight the net amount of any payment 
Mrs C may receive from the Cape Verde investment as well as any other  payment she may 
receive from any party as a result of the Cape Verde  investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount she may receive. Insight will need 
to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
4. The loss would be represented by (2)  (3) for Mrs C. The value  of her SIPP should then 
be enhanced so that it is equal to the value calculated in 1. That payment should take 
account of any available  tax relief and the effect  of charges.
If it is not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP or has protection or allowance 
implications then the loss should be paid to Mrs C as a cash  sum after making  a deduction  
of 15%.  The redress  would otherwise have been  used to provide pension benefits, 25% of 
which would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to Mrs Cs likely tax 
paying status in retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  And so the 15% deduction adequately 
reflects this.
5. Pay Mrs C £300 for the trouble  and upset shes been caused.  
6. Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN74296088my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Insight Financial Associates Limited must redress  Mrs C as Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7429608