K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined  a claim 
she made on her pet insurance policy. 
background
Mrs G took out a pet insurance policy with LV in July 2016 to cover  her dog, D. 
In May 2018, D was admitted to the vet hospital as he was having  seizures.  D was then 
diagnosed with epilepsy. In June 2018,  Mrs G got in touch with LV to make  a claim on the 
policy for Ds treatment. 
LV declined the claim after examining  Ds medical history.  This is because it believed  that D 
had already been checked by the vets for symptoms it believed related to this condition, and 
so the claim related to a pre-existing condition  as defined  by its policy  terms. 
Mrs G disagreed with this and provided information  from her vets that she says supports that 
the condition she was claiming for, wasnt linked to the condition  that D was seen for in 2016.  
Our investigator looked into things again.  She thought that LV had acted fairly in declining 
the claim,  as she felt that the claim was pre-existing  and pre-existing conditions  werent  
covered under the policy. 
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed  to me 
to make a decision on the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mrs Gs 
complaint. I appreciate this answer will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but I would like 
to explain my reasoning  in more details below.
The policy terms defines a pre-existing  condition  as the following:
Any illness, injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency,  or any signs  of illness,  injury, 
behavioural problem or vicious tendency that occurred or existed in any form before the start 
date of the policy.
The general exclusions of the policy say:
we wont cover you for any claim that is caused by or in any way related to any of the 
following Any illness,  injury or changes in your pets  normal healthy state, its bodily 
functions or behaviour (or vicious tendencies) that your pet shows signs of before the start 
date of your policy.
This means,  that any medical conditions, or symptom relating to a medical  condition  that 
existed before the policy was taken out wouldnt  be covered. 
Ref: DRN75190522In February 2016,  Mrs G took D to the vets,  the medical history notes from the time say that 
D had fit .. shaking head furiously  and was like had no control of limbs. This happened  
prior to the inception  of the policy. So its now for me to decide if this episode Ive mentioned 
here constitutes a pre-existing  medical condition as per the terms of the policy. 
In May 2018, Mrs G took D to the vets, the medical history notes say D was fine, then start 
to seizure, rigid and trembling, had fit 2 years ago, her got a 2nd fit, just 40 second.
The vet who examined  D at the time has referred to D having a fit and this was the second 
instance of this. Based on the medical notes from the time, I think  the vet has identified D 
has had a fit before and the instance  in May 2018  was the second time something of this 
nature had happened. So, I think this condition would be classed as pre-existing under the 
policy terms and conditions. Because of this, I dont think  LV have done anything wrong 
when declining  the claim. 
After LV declined the claim,  Mrs Gs vet sent it a letter explaining that it didnt think the 
instances in 2016 and 2018 were linked. He said the reason for this is because of the length 
of time that had passed in between  the episodes and that the symptoms described in each 
of the episodes werent consistent. 
Ive thought carefully about this point,  but I still dont agree that Mrs Gs complaint should  be 
upheld. The vets letter  was sent sometime after the examination  of D. And it seems, from 
the medical notes  that the letter was sent by a different vet to the one that saw D in 2018. 
Because of this, I think the medical notes from the time are likely to be more  accurate, and 
these state that the episode from 2018,  was the second fit that D had experienced  with 
the first being before  the policy was taken out. 
So while I appreciate this decision will come  as a disappointment to Mrs G, I cant  say that 
LV have unfairly declined the claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020. 
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7519052