K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that MBNA  Limited  (MBNA) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card in 2001.
background
Ms B took out a credit  card in October  2001. She didnt take out the PPI then. But Ms B 
applied for the PPI a couple  of days later in a call to the business.
This policy would  have covered her for accident,  sickness or if she lost her job. It cost 
around £0.68 per £100 of Ms Bs outstanding balance on her credit card and would have 
paid up to 3% of that balance on a successful claim for up to 12 months if she lost her job; 
and if she couldnt  work  due to an illness or an accident it would have paid, until she 
returned to work or the outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid in full.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Ms B disagreed  with this view 
and asked that her case be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms B says she doesnt remember being asked about taking out the PPI- she 
assumed it came  as part of the package and she should  have been  asked and given 
the choice about  taking it out. MBNA has provided a copy  of Ms Bs application  for 
her credit  card.  I can see that she didnt apply for her PPI when she completed the 
application form. MBNA says Ms B applied for her PPI on the telephone. So all in all, 
I think she would have  realised  it didnt come as part of the package. From  what we 
know about these  types of sales, I think  MBNA made it clear that Ms B didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this. And I think the PPI would have appeared  on her credit  card 
statements so if she wasnt sure or had any queries she could have questioned 
MBNA. I havent seen  she did this.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her circumstances. But it did have to make sure Ms B got the information she 
needed so she could decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time Ms B told us 
she had no sick pay or savings to make  her repayments if she fell into difficulty. And 
it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN76223812 Which means MBNA  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because MBNA  didnt  tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said. But these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Ms B.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7622381