K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Brown  Shipley  & Co Limited failed to advise her that her existing whole  
of life (WOL) policy  was no longer suitable for her and this has led her to paying higher 
premiums than she shouldve been  paying.  
background
Ms T took out a qualifying WOL policy in 1984 (the Skandia policy). From what she has said 
this wasnt on the advice of Brown Shipley. At the time she was a smoker  so her premium  
was based on this. When she stopped being  a smoker she contacted  the provider to change  
the policy to non-smoker status but was told by the provider that it couldnt change the policy 
because of its qualifying  status.
It was only in 2016 when Ms T saw a different advising firm that she was advised to stop the 
Skandia policy and take out a new WOL policy on a non-qualifying basis  and based on her 
being a non-smoker. Based on this advice Ms T stopped her existing policy and took out a 
new policy for a lower premium that was currently payable for the Skandia policy.
Brown Shipley said it had limited information  on the policy  but said its relationship  with Ms T 
was largely as Pension Administrators  of the company Self Administered  Pension Account. It 
said it didnt believe Ms T was signed  up to an advisory planning service at the time so it 
wouldnt have expected to provide advice on individual policies. It referred  to Ms Ts direct  
correspondence with the provider in 2001 rather than through  it and that the only record  it 
had of discussing the policy was a meeting in 2004.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  He 
said Ms T communicated directly with the provider in 2001  about changing the policy to non- 
smoking status but was told she couldnt do this because the policy  was a qualifying  policy  
for tax purposes. It explained that this meant it received preferential tax treatment and that 
the Inland Revenue wouldnt allow significant  changes.
With regard to the meeting with the adviser in 2004  the adjudicator said there was no 
evidence that Ms Ts non-smoking status had been discussed. 
Ms T didnt agree with the adjudicator.  In summary she made the following points:
She didnt have an in depth knowledge  of how the policy worked  as seemed to be 
assumed. All she knew about  the policy was that it paid out on second death,  the 
premium was reviewable and, after correspondence with the provider in 2001, it 
supposedly had preferential tax treatment which she found  out in 2016 was irrelevant 
to her needs.
The adjudicator  appears to have based his opinion on the meeting notes drafted by 
the adviser for the meeting of 29 July 2004 rather than her own recollection.
The notes dont  reflect  her memory  of the discussion  of the Skandia policy  and the 
summary of the meeting given  by her accountant  shows there was more  than a lively 
discussion about the policy - as recorded by the adviser - and that suitability was 
considered.
She was assured by the adviser in the meeting of 29 July 2004  and in subsequent 
telephone conversations  that there werent better  value  policies.
She wouldve  expected her adviser,  who had advised for many  years before he 
joined Brown Shipley,  to have known what the tax benefits  of the policy  were.
Ref: DRN75302872As can be seen from the letter of her accountant dated 30 July 2004 her adviser  had 
obtained a quote  for an alternative  WOL policy with a guaranteed premium on non-
smoker rates as the adviser knew  she had been a non smoker  for some years.
The lively discussion  the adviser has recorded was around  the alternative  WOL 
policy because the premium was so much  higher and it was during  this discussion 
that the adviser stated that the Skandia  policy  was still the most  suitable if she 
accepted the premiums  could  be increased  on review.
Following the advice she received in 2016 she is now aware  she couldve obtained 
cheaper premiums for a non-qualifying  reviewable  WOL policy on non-smoker rates  
in 2004 if the adviser had obtained quotes for this.
There was no follow up letter to the meeting of July 2004 until a letter dated 1 
December 2004 which didnt  mention the Skandia  policy  but did mention  another 
policy which again wouldve been  on non-smoker rates.
She wasnt concerned  the Skandia policy wasnt mentioned  because  the adviser  had 
made clear in the meeting  it was still a suitable  policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities based on the evidence  what is more likely than not rather  than what is certain. 
And it is for me to decide what weight to give each piece of evidence.  
I have made  this clear  because Ms T has referred  to the investigator preferring the record  of 
the meeting in 2004 shown in the meeting notes of the adviser  rather  than her recollection of 
what happened. 
But generally a record made at the time of the event  being considered has more evidential  
weight than a persons  recollection unless there is evidence that supports that recollection. 
This is especially so when the event was a long time ago, because memories  from so long 
ago are unlikely  to be accurate. In this case Ms T is recalling event that happened  over 14 
years before she complained.
I think it is of note that it was Ms T who contacted the provider in 2001 to try and change the 
policy, so that it was based  on non-smoker rates, rather than her adviser. She was told by 
the provider that this was a significant change  which it couldnt do as the policy  was a 
qualifying policy for tax purposes  and if it did so the policy would lose its tax benefits. 
I think it is more  likely than not she decided to keep the policy  going despite  knowing she 
was paying smoker rates based on what Skandia had told her because she thought  there 
were benefits of keeping the policy qualifying. I have seen no evidence  this was based  on 
advice she received at the time.  
I have considered the documentary evidence that is available to see if this supports  what  
she has said. She said that the Skandia  policy was the sole topic  of conversation at the 
meeting that took place in July 2004  with the adviser  and her accountant. But the meeting 
note states that it was regarding the self- administered pension  fund and it is clear that, 
although there was a discussion  about  the Skandia  policy, this was not the main  purpose of 
the meeting. 
Ref: DRN75302873This is supported by the accountants  letter of 30 July 2004  that Ms T relies upon  which  
numbers the issues considered and makes it clear the meeting involved far more  than 
discussion of the Skandia policy. 
With regard to the policy the notes record.
 
We then moved on to discuss the question of IHT and the Skandia life assurance  policy. A 
lively discussion took place as to the merits of putting personal income into life assurance 
policies for the protection of IHT on their estate  and (Ms T) was fully familiar with the 
Skandia arrangement  and the information  provided by Skandia  which  indicated the existing 
policy would run for approximately 10 years. The question of whether or not further  gifts 
should be made was discussed and at this stage  no decision has been made as to whether 
they would  wish to ensure  that the life assurance  cover extended  beyond  the next ten years 
and this can be discussed at some  later stage.
This suggest that the discussion involving the Skandia policy was a general discussion  about 
Ms Ts IHT provision not about  the suitability of the policy. There is nothing to suggest Ms T 
discussed with the adviser what she had been  told by Skandia in 2001 or the adviser was 
meant to advise her about that.
The accountants letter  of 30 July 2004  provides some further information about what  was 
discussed about the Skandia policy. He stated:
(Ms T) has done  all the research on this in advance and had found out that the level of 
cover could remain as it is, for the same premium  for the next 9-10 years. The increase in 
premium to reflect an increase in cover seemed uneconomic. Keeping the premium the 
same for the next 9 years  would exhaust the small balance which  has been built up. The 
adviser) explained how this worked.
This suggests that it was Ms T who had looked into the cover provided  by the Skandia policy  
rather than the adviser,  and that the advisers role was limited to explaining why the money 
in the policy  would be exhausted if there was no increase to premium. Again there is nothing 
in this to suggest  the adviser shouldve  been  reviewing the suitability of the policy because 
he was aware Ms T was non-smoker paying non-smoker rates.
Under the heading Inheritance Tax Planning the accountant stated the following:
Your joint estate, especially with the recent increase in property prices is now very 
substantial and in the event of a second  death  there would be a large amount of Inheritance 
Tax to pay. There are only two effective ways to deal with Inheritance  Tax, one is to give the 
assets away and the other is to take out an insurance policy to pay out on second death. We 
had something of a general discussion about  this. One idea put forward by (the adviser) was 
to take out a whole  of life second death  policy. He quoted a premium  of £21,000 per year to 
provide (I think) £1.65 million of cover.  These  figures would stay constant  for life..My own 
view on this is that you I think you should  be considering some more insurance.  This doesnt  
have to be whole life  maybe you could take some  term assurance until say (Ms T) was 70, 
which would be much cheaper and cover  the immediate position.
Ms T has said that the guaranteed premium referred  to for a further WOL policy wouldve 
been on non-smoker  rates. I have seen  no evidence there was any discussion about the 
basis on which the adviser obtained the figure and Im not satisfied there  was such a 
discussion. But it is more  likely than not he wouldve obtained  a figure  based  on standard 
Ref: DRN75302874rates anyway   non-smoker rates as this would be normal  where  there is no specific 
information that would suggest he should be asking for a quote on non-standard rates.
In a later letter from the accountant dated  3 September 2004 he stated:
There is no difference  between extending  the Skandia policy or starting with a completely 
new one as well. They would be both to cover the same  thing..We  had been  put off the 
Skandia one because of the expense of, initially them  wanting  an extra £500 per annum for 
only £150k increase in cover for 10 years.
Again I dont think this takes the matter  any further forward  in terms of providing evidence  
that the adviser shouldve reviewed the suitability of the Skandia policy because he was 
aware Ms T was paying smoker rates and was a non-smoker. 
In a letter from the adviser dated 1 December 2004  he referred to the loss of cover provided 
by a group  life policy with Swiss  Life and he provided an initial  premium  cost for a sum 
assured of £480,000 - subject to normal underwriting terms  to replace this. As I have 
already indicated, it would be quite normal for the adviser to obtain  information about 
premiums for a new policy on normal underwriting terms, which I take to mean a standard  
cover basis.
Having considered the limited evidence available Im not satisfied that the adviser did do 
anything wrong. The documentary evidence doesnt support what  Ms T has said about the 
adviser advising her that the Skandia policy was still the most  suitable policy  in the meeting 
in 2004 - or later. The letter of 30 July 2004 from the accountant  refers  to a general  
discussion about what to do with regard to IHT with one idea being  a WOL policy  with 
guaranteed premium.
In short,  there isnt enough persuasive evidence that the adviser was responsible for 
reviewing the suitability of Ms Ts Skandia  policy or that he had information that meant  he 
shouldve been  aware it wasnt suitable and advised  her of this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7530287