K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms K says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms K also complains that despite  contacting Halifax, it didnt  advise her she had PPI in 2008. 
And had they done so she couldve made a claim as she was unable to work as a result of 
sickness.
Ms K complaint is bought  alongside her official receivers, but Ill refer to her only in my 
decision. And to keep  things simple, Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ks case.
the mis-sale complaint 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Ms K, so Ill explain why. 
Ms K says she didnt  know  she had the PPI. Halifax has given me a copy  of Ms Ks signed 
credit card application. And on it I can see theres  a section  headed  Insurance  services. 
Theres some wording  here which in summary  says Halifax recommends  the PPI and a 
broad description of the cover  is given. Theres then some further wording which  says Yes,  I 
would like to take advantage of the peace  of mind offered  by Credit Card Repayments  
Cover A tick has been made in the box next to this. Theres also some further wording 
which gives the option to select No to the PPI  and this has been left blank. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its most  likely Halifax made it clear that Ms K didnt have 
to take out the PPI and, importantly, that she chose to take it out. Given  the passage of time 
since the sale, I can understand why she cant remember this.
Halifax cant be sure if it recommended the PPI to Ms K, so it will treat the sale as if it did. So 
Ill treat the sale as if it was. Its to Ms Ks benefit  that I do this  as it means Halifax  is held to 
the higher standard of having to check that the policy was suitable for her. And having done 
that, it seems to have  been right for Ms K based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time.  
 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover. In saying the above, Ive also considered the 
sick pay benefit she wouldve received from her employer.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ref: DRN75757292This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms K paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Ms K back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms K now Ive issued my final decision
As Ms K has been bankrupt, and her trustee  in bankruptcy has an interest in her complaint, 
Halifax should pay the compensation to her trustee  in bankruptcy.
Ive thought about everything Ms K has said - including what  she has said about being in 
secure employment. But circumstances can change. So these points dont change my 
decision about whether the PPI was mis-sold.
not being told about having PPI in 2008 
Ive also thought about Ms Ks other complaint point, which is that Halifax  didnt advise her 
she had PPI in 2008. And had they done so she couldve made a claim as she was unable  to 
work as a result of sickness at that time.  
Halifax has given me screenshot of its internal systems. And having carefully reviewed this, I 
can see the PPI policy  was cancelled in 2005. Theres also information here that shows  it 
was cancelled by Ms Ks request.  
So as there was no cover in place in 2008 when Ms K says she couldve made  a claim had 
she known she had it, I dont think shes lost out nor do I think Halifax  have done anything 
wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7575729