K820x#14complaint
Mr C, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in March 2004.
background
Mr C says he was told he had to take out the cover  to get the mortgage he wanted.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Santander  had mis-sold the policy.  Because  Mr C disagreed 
his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen, including what Mr C and Santander have told us, it looks as if Mr C 
bought the policy at a meeting and that Santander recommended that he take out the 
policy. That means  Santander had to be sure that the policy was suitable for Mr Cs 
circumstances as well as giving him clear  information  about  it.
Unfortunately, I havent seen any paperwork  from the sale,  which  isnt unusual  after so 
many years. So I dont  know what forms Mr C would have been asked to complete in order 
to agree to take out the cover. From what I know about the way these sales often 
happened, I wouldve expected him to be required to make a choice about  whether or not 
he wanted to buy the cover  and its likely  he also needed to complete a separate  PPI 
application form. 
Mr C has suggested he was put under pressure to take out the cover. Thats  something 
thats difficult to establish,  especially after so many  years. And Ive kept in mind that being 
told its a good  idea to have the cover isnt the same as having no choice about taking it 
out. 
So, whilst its unfortunate that the sale paperwork is no longer available,  I think its more  
likely than not that Mr C was aware the PPI cover  was something he had a choice about 
buying, but decided to go ahead with. 
Ive next thought about whether the policy was suitable for Mr C. From what Ive seen, 
Mr C was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been disadvantaged by any of its main  
exclusions. Mr C has told us about  a medical  condition he had around  four years  before he 
took out the cover and a related condition he had treatment  for in 1998. I cant see a 
reason why the policy would prevent Mr C making a successful claim either of these 
conditions, but I note in any event that hed only taken three days off work  for the 1998  
condition.
Mr C has told us that his employer would have paid him for up to 12 months if he wasnt 
able to work. Such a generous level of benefit  is unusual  given the type of work  he was 
Ref: DRN79988802doing.  But the PPI cover wouldve paid out alongside these existing  benefits,  covering 
Mr Cs monthly  payments for up to 36 months  if he wasnt able to work due to accident  or 
sickness and for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. So even taking into account  the 
benefits Mr C told us about, the PPI was a worthwhile benefit and meant that Mr C 
wouldnt have to rely on other ways to fund the mortgage. I therefore  think the cover 
would also have given  him the reassurance of knowing that his home was protected.
The PPI cost £31.28 per month and covered Mr Cs monthly mortgage payments.  Its 
likely this would have  been explained  to Mr C in the meeting at the time of the sale.  I also 
think its likely he would  have been given some information summarising  the policy terms. 
But  Ive  no way of knowing if Mr C looked at any information he was given. So potentially 
its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  
Having looked  at the sale carefully, however, I think Mr C would still have decided  to buy 
the policy if hed been better advised  and informed.
Mr Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points do not persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7998880