K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (trading as Argos Card 
Services) is asking him to pay for goods  he didnt receive.
background
Mr C contacted us late in 2017. He said then that Argos Card was asking him to pay for 
something he hadnt received. He said that hed bought an item of jewellery in December 
2016, but it had never arrived. He said hed been trying to get Argos to refund  the money 
hed paid for this since then. 
Argos Card wrote to Mr C in November 2017.  It said that he owed £1,109.90 on his card 
account. That was from two purchases, one in December 2016 of £999.99 and one in 
August 2017 of £109.91.
Argos Card said that it just lends the money for purchases.  It doesnt  do the actual selling, so 
it also doesnt do refunds.  But it had spoken to Argos Retail,  and they said that the item was 
delivered and signed for in December 2017. And Argos  Retail said that Mr C had never  been  
in touch with it to say that the item hadnt  been  delivered. So Argos  Card said it looked as if 
Mr C hadnt disputed that hed made the purchase, and received the item, until August 2017.  
Argos Card said that if Mr C didnt pay off the purchase of £999.99 before late December 
2017, it would start to charge him interest.   
When Argos Card  wrote  to us, it said it had some  new information. It said then that Mr C had 
contacted Argos  Retail in December 2016, and told it that his delivery  had arrived a day late. 
Because of that, Argos Retail had paid him back the delivery charge. So Argos  Card said 
that it seemed  as if Mr C had confirmed that he had received the item after all.
Our investigator sent the signature that Argos Retail had received for the item to Mr C. He 
said it wasnt his signature, and sent us examples of his signature. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that there was no record  that Mr C 
contacted Argos  in December 2016  to say he hadnt received the item. And even if he had, 
our investigator said that she wouldve expected him to chase  Argos  about the refund much 
sooner than August 2017. 
Our investigator said that she knew Mr C didnt  have access  to his online account  at the 
time, but she said that Argos was still sending him paper monthly statements, and these 
were sent to the same address as we have  on file for Mr C. 
Our investigator said that Argos Card had sent proof  of delivery that showed that the item 
was sent to Mr Cs address, and signed  for there. Our investigator  said that she knew Mr C 
said this was nothing  like his signature, but our investigator said that this was often the case  
with a digital  signature. So that didnt mean the item wasnt  received.  
Mr C didnt agree with that. He said he wasnt getting paper statements at the time, just 
online ones  that he couldnt access. He said that Argos  was just lying to us. He said hed 
always paid for everything he had received.  
Ref: DRN76081872Our investigator said that it was reasonable to expect a customer to monitor  their accounts,  
and if they couldnt access them, to let the business  know. So she asked when Mr C had let 
Argos know about the problems he was having accessing his account. Mr C said that he 
hadnt because  it just took too long to sort things like this out. 
Argos wrote  to us too, to say that Mr C did have access to his online account. It knew  this 
because hed paid using the online account facility in February, March, May, June and 
August 2017.  And hed been sent statements by post when his account  fell into arrears.  
Our investigator wrote to Mr C again. She passed on the information that Argos  had given  us 
about how Mr C had accessed his account, and said that the email notification  he received 
about his account each  month showed the outstanding balance. So Mr C wouldve been  able 
to tell, just from that, whether the total that he owed had been  adjusted to show  a refund, or 
not. She also said that she still thought  that Mr C shouldve raised this sooner, and that she 
hadnt changed her mind.
Mr C wrote again to stress  that he had always paid his bills. He said that the item hadnt  
been delivered, and repeated that Argos was lying. 
Because Mr C didnt agree with our investigator,  this case  was passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen the signature that was taken  when Mr Cs purchase was delivered.  I think this 
suggests that the item was delivered,  but the signature isnt clear enough for me to conclude  
that Mr C himself definitely signed for it. I dont know whether he did, or not.
But, like our investigator, I think that if Mr C hadnt  received the item,  he wouldve queried 
this with Argos sooner  than he did. Particularly for such  a high value item, purchased at 
Christmastime.
Ive listened to a phone call Mr C had with Argos about the amount he owed on his card.  I 
can hear on that call that Mr C was reading  a note of an old query he raised with Argos,  on 
21 December 2016, about the delivery  of this item.  He said this showed that the item wasnt 
ever delivered. 
But Argos  has shown us the delivery  record for this item. So we know it wasnt delivered  on 
21 December, when  Mr C says he complained. The item didnt get to Mr Cs local delivery 
office until 22 December.  It was delivered  after that.
I think that the complaint that Mr C made on 21 December, and a note of delivery  which 
shows the item being delivered the next day, is all consistent with what Argos  Retail has said 
in this case - that Mr Cs item was delivered a day late, so it refunded his delivery charge. 
And I agree with our investigator, I also wouldve expected Mr C to query in December 2016 
why he hadnt  also received a refund for the item itself, if it hadnt been received. Especially 
given the cost of it. 
Ref: DRN76081873I dont think Im able to conclude, on the evidence Ive seen, that its more  likely that Mr C 
didnt receive this item. The evidence suggests  to me that Mr C contacted Argos Retail about 
a late delivery in December. It also suggests  that he received the item shortly after that, and 
received a refund on the delivery charge because the item was delivered  late. 
And that means  Im not able to uphold this complaint. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed,  but I dont think Argos  has to refund the money that Mr C 
has been charged on his card for this purchase,  because  it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it 
to.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7608187