K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that after National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  upheld an earlier  
complaint he had made about mis-selling him a packaged bank account, it decreased the 
amount of compensation it paid him to reduce a debt it said he owed from several years 
earlier. Mr H doesnt think this was fair. He believes  that Natwest should have paid him all 
the compensation, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator thought it 
was reasonable  for Natwest to withhold part of the compensation from Mr H and didnt  
recommend that it should uphold his complaint. Mr H disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked into everything that Mr H and 
Natwest have told us or sent us about it and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
When we uphold a complaint against a bank for mis-selling a packaged bank account, we 
normally tell it to refund all the fees a consumer  paid for the account and to add interest from 
the time the consumer paid the fees until the bank gives  them  back. We add the interest to 
compensate consumers for not being  able to use the money the bank took in fees for the 
mis-sold account. In some circumstances, we also allow  banks to deduct any savings the 
consumer made by having the bank account. These  savings may come from benefits such 
as better  interest rates on overdrafts. 
Mr H didnt bring the mis-sale complaint to us, but both parties  seem  to agree that Natwest 
initially worked out the compensation  due to Mr H according to our normal guidance, 
including a small deduction for savings Mr H made  on an overdraft. However Natwest  then 
only paid Mr H the amount it calculated for interest. It said it could keep  the rest as it 
believes that Mr H owes it a large debt on the account. 
Mr H has raised  two main points in his complaint  to us. Firstly, he doesnt think  he has any 
debts with Natwest, he thinks he paid them off several years ago. And secondly, even if he 
does owe Natwest money,  he doesnt  think Natwest can determine his priority  debt  in this 
way. Hes told us that (his) complaint is that the bank deducted an amount based on an 
unadvised and unsubstantiated debt.
Ill explain  my findings  for each of Mr Hs main points in turn.
does Mr H owe Natwest any money? 
Mr H and Natwest have agreed that the packaged  bank account  closed  a long time ago. 
Natwest has told us that Mr H paid fees for the account during 2002, 2003  and 2004 but that 
the account went into arrears. It says the account  closed  in July 2010  with a significant  
amount of money  outstanding. It has sent us statements from this time and they show  that 
Mr H did owe them a large  amount of money.  
Ref: DRN72880992Although Mr H has told us that he paid back  all the money he owed to Natwest  before 2010, 
he hasnt been  able to send us any further  evidence to show us how or when he did this. Nor 
have I seen anything  to show he repaid the debt after 2010; so it seems  to me that the 
statements are probably  accurate and that Mr Hs debt still exists. 
I have also seen some of Natwests records for Mr Hs account which show that although 
Natwest may have used a third-party  collection agent to try to recover  money from Mr H, 
when the account closed  Mr H still owed the money to Natwest. The records  also show that 
Natwest or its agent discussed the debt with Mr H during 2010, so Im satisfied that he knew  
about it at that time.
I accept that Mr H may not remember these details. Its nearly a decade  since his account 
closed and I acknowledge that Natwest may not have said much  to him about it for quite  
some time. But Im satisfied  that he does still owe money to Natwest due to the arrears on 
his bank account. 
does Natwest have  the right to withhold  part of Mr Hs compensation for mis-selling him the 
account? 
Although Im satisfied  that Mr H owes Natwest some money, this doesnt automatically  mean  
that it was fair for Natwest to hold on to some of the compensation for mis-selling  him the 
account. 
We only think its fair for banks to withhold compensation in the way Natwest did in certain  
circumstances. For example, we must be satisfied that there  was a close  connection  
between the financial  product which gave  rise to the debt and the product  for which  the bank 
owes compensation; and we must also be satisfied that consumer  doesnt  have any urgent 
priority debts which the bank knows about. (Urgent debts include things like significantly 
overdue mortgage or rent or council tax arrears which could  lead to a consumer becoming 
homeless or facing  prosecution in the courts).  We also look into any other reasons why it 
may be unfair for a bank  not to pay all the compensation.
In this case, the debt and the compensation come from the same account, so there  is 
obviously a close connection  between them. And Im not aware of Mr H having any urgent 
priority debts. Nor have I seen any other reason  to think that Natwest behaved unfairly when 
it used part of the compensation to reduce Mr Hs debt. I think it acted within  its rights  when it 
paid him the compensatory  interest, but did not refund the account fees. 
Mr H has also mentioned  that he has received money back from Natwest for mis-sold 
insurance policies  where  it didnt withhold  any part of the compensation, and has referred to 
decisions we have  published on our website where  we didnt think it was fair for a bank to 
withhold part of the compensation.  So he thinks it must be unfair for Natwest to do so in this 
case.
Its not appropriate for me to comment  on other cases  in this decision. We consider  each  
complaint individually to decide whats the fair and reasonable  thing to do in the individual  
circumstances of the case.  I have done that here,  and I hope my explanation helps Mr H to 
understand how I have  reached my decision.  
Ref: DRN72880993my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc. Im not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7288099