K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that a car she acquired  via a Personal  Contract  Plan (PCP) with Lex 
Autolease Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants to reject the car.
background
In December 2017 Miss T acquired a new car via a three year PCP with Lex Autolease. 
But in January 2018 one of cars windows wouldnt operate  and the car was taken in for 
repairs at no cost to Miss T.
In March 2018 the cars keyless  go system was inoperable and the car had to be 
collected and taken back to the garage  for repairs. These repairs  took three  days and 
Miss T was provided  with a courtesy car in that time. The car was repaired again  at no 
cost to Miss T.
Miss T complained  to Lex Autolease about the quality of the car. Lex Autolease accepted  
the car had needed the repairs and so upheld Miss Ts complaint. It offered to reimburse 
one months rental as compensation  which Miss T accepted.
Shortly after her complaint to Lex Autolease,  Miss T had issues with the key not working 
and a new key was supplied by the garage.
Miss T says she then had further intermittent issues with the car in respect of the stop/start 
system, the infotainment system as the screen  would go blank when the radio was on, or 
the Sat Nav was being used and that the back window would drop open  when the car was 
left parked. She complained again to Lex Autolease  and it arranged  for the car to be 
independently inspected.
The independent engineer inspected the car in July 2018. They tested the car for one and 
a half hours  but were  unable to replicate  the faults Miss T had raised.
As Miss T had been able to produce a video of the media systems fault Lex Autolease 
agreed to uphold that part of her complaint  and it offered her £355 as compensation. 
However it said as there wasnt evidence  about  the other faults it would be 
disproportionate to reject the car for the issue with media system.
Miss T was unhappy  at Lex Autoleases decision and she declined the offer of the 
£355 compensation and complained to this service  about the quality of the car.
In October 2018 the car went into the garage about  the window dropping issue. Miss T 
said the car was then fault free.
Our adjudicator recommended that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld and said it would 
be reasonable for her to reject the car. She said she wouldnt expect a new car to have 
developed the number  of issues that it had in the time Miss T had had it in her possession.  
Our adjudicator said she would expect  a new car to work efficiently for a fair amount  of time.
Our adjudicator said that Lex Autolease  had one opportunity to fix the car but the faults with 
the stop/start system  and window had reoccurred within the first year of Miss Ts 
ownership. Our adjudicator said she didnt think the parts  were  durable.
Ref: DRN70099242Our adjudicator said there  werent  any contact  notes between Miss T and Lex Autolease 
so it wasnt clear when Miss T had asked to reject the car but she believed it would have 
been likely  to have been around the third time the car went in for repairs. She said she 
thought Lex Autolease should have honoured that request at that point.
Our adjudicator said the faults appeared to be intermittent and so it was uncertain when 
they would  reappear. She said she wouldnt expect  Miss T to have to continue to drive  the 
car. The dropped  window  was a safety  risk and the stop/start system wasnt  fit for purpose.
Our adjudicator said it would be fair for the car to be returned at no cost to Miss T, for the 
agreement to end with nothing further to pay, for the offered £355 compensation to be 
paid, and for 20% of the monthly payments from January to October  2018  to be repaid for 
the impaired usage.
Lex Autolease disagreed  with our adjudicators view. It said that it agreed that the car 
hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale as repairs  had been required within  
the first six months. But it said that Miss T had agreed to the rear windows being repaired in 
January 2018  and the keyless go system being  fixed in March  2018. It said these faults  
didnt appear to have  re-occurred. These  particular  faults had arisen within the first six 
months and under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  it had one opportunity to repair which  it 
had exercised.
Lex Autolease said the complaint it had received in June 2018 was for new matters  with 
the media system  and the rear window opening on their own.  These faults were said to be 
intermittent and had arisen after six months but neither the garage nor the independent 
engineer had been able to replicate them. However, following the last visit to the garage in 
October 2018 the car was reported  by Miss T as being fault free.
Lex Autolease said it accepted  there  had been too many issues  with the car for it to be 
considered reasonable but that it would be unfair  for her to now reject the car. It said 
the correct redress  was compensation as had been  offered but declined  by Miss T.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision  
along the following lines.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  goods that are supplied  must be of satisfactory  
quality at the point of sale. And satisfactory  quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect taking  into account all the relevant circumstances  such as age, 
condition and mileage  of the car. Here the car was brand new so a reasonable person 
would expect it to be fault free.
Lex Autolease had accepted that with the repairs that were needed to the car in January  
and March 2018 that it wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the time Miss T had acquired it. 
However, just because the car had faults doesnt  always mean it was reasonable to reject it.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 if goods were found to be faulty  within the first 30 
days then they can be rejected.  Here, Miss T hadnt asked to reject the car but had had 
the car repaired instead. She took the car back and continued to use it.
Miss T then had an issue with the key and this was replaced. She also had issues  with 
the media system, and the back windows opening  when  the car was parked.
Ref: DRN70099243I understood that as the issues  with the media system and windows were intermittent it 
would be difficult to find the fault straight away. Id seen  that both of these faults were 
investigated by the independent  engineer but couldnt be replicated. Lex Autolease said 
this was the same position for the dealership.
However, although I appreciated Miss T said shed continued to have problems with the 
stop/start system  I couldnt see that shed raised  this issue in her second complaint  to Lex 
Autolease in June  2018. The independent  engineer wasnt instructed  to investigate this 
problem and he also hadnt experienced it with his test drive though that was a relatively 
short one. So I was unclear about  the frequency of the issue  with the stop/start system.
From the list of repairs carried out on the car Id seen that the last repair  was to the 
windows in October 2018. After this date the car was reported to be fault free though Miss 
T has told me that the issue with the stop/start system had recently restarted. So the 
stop/start system appeared to have been fully functioning for over 18 months  without any 
repairs being carried out on it since March 2018.
I appreciated the car has not been fault free as would be expected for a new car. This has 
caused Miss T distress and inconvenience. However, I didnt think rejecting the car in 
these circumstances  was proportionate. Id seen  that the car was repaired and fault free 
from October 2018. Any issues with the car that had now arisen would need to be 
separately investigated by Lex Autolease as I thought too long had passed  to reasonably  
link any current  faults with these  matters.
I thought that the reasonable resolution  for Miss Ts complaint  was for Lex Autolease  to pay 
her compensation for not being  able to use the car as shed  expected and having to take 
the car in for repairs on four occasions.  Id seen that when the car was repaired Miss T was 
provided with a courtesy car.
Lex Autolease has paid the equivalent of one months rental for the car undergoing the 
first two repairs.  It had also offered Miss T £355  for the issue  with the media system as 
she had provided  video proof of that issue. However, nothing had been  offered  for the 
windows opening  which appeared to have been  repaired  in October 2018 a few months  
later.
I thought the window  issue, even though it was intermittent, would have been concerning 
for Miss T. Id seen  a photo of the window being  open and although  it wasnt fully open  
there would have been an issue that the car wasnt secure when parked. I thought  that a 
further compensation payment of £250 would be fair as redress  for this fault.
I was therefore intending  to partially  uphold  Miss Ts complaint in that I was increasing  the 
amount of compensation due but I didnt think it was reasonable for Miss T to now reject the 
car.
Miss T disagrees  with my provisional  view.  She says that the car went in for a day in March 
2018 for an issue with the keyless go system  but the problem reoccurred leading  to it having 
to be booked in again for repairs in April, when it was kept for three  days by the garage.  Miss 
T says the car broke down in a carpark and she had to leave it there for two days  and rent 
another car in that time as it was a Bank Holiday.
Ref: DRN70099244Miss T says that Lex Autolease had more than one opportunity  to fix the car and that under 
the Consumer  Rights Act she was entitled  to reject  the car either within  the first 30 days or 
due to the number of repairs the car has required.  She says my decision is unfair.
Lex Autolease says that additional £250  compensation  to Miss T is excessive for the window 
issue. It says the repair  to the window undertaken in October was minor.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view and I will explain why. Miss T has said that had she known she 
could have rejected  the car for being faulty in the first 30 days  she would have done so. 
However, the first issue with the car concerned a window that was inoperable which she 
agreed to have repaired. Looking at the nature of that fault and that it required only a minor 
repair together with amount of time that has now passed I dont think  its reasonable to now 
say she should  be able to reject the car because she might have chosen  to do so back  at 
that time.  Ive seen  that Miss T was happy to take the car back after the fault was fixed.
I also appreciate that Miss T had issues with the stop/start system in March  and April 2018. 
Ive seen that she complained to Lex Autolease in April 2018 about  what had happened and 
it offered her compensation which she accepted. So I think its reasonable to presume Miss 
T was satisfied with that outcome  at the time. Looking at the amount of compensation that 
was paid I dont  think I can reasonably  say it was unfair, even taking into account  that the car 
had had to be left in a carpark  for a couple of days and another car rented.  
I also dont think that its now fair to say that as there  were two repairs Miss T should now be 
able to reject  the car. The car was fixed and compensation was paid for the inconvenience 
and distress caused. I dont think its proportionate to say the car should now be returned 
and the agreement cancelled.
I agree  with Miss T that the car went to the garage  on five occasions  for various repairs but 
from October 2018 it was described as being fault free. Its also not disputed  that a new car 
wouldnt reasonably  be expected to have to go to the garage for faults to be investigated and 
repaired so soon after being acquired.  Lex Autolease  has said that as the car has now been 
repaired that the appropriate  and fair remedy in the circumstances was compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and I still agree with that view.
I dont think that every  fault with a car will mean that rejection  is a fair outcome. I think its 
reasonable to take account  of the nature of the faults which arose after the stop/start system 
was repaired.  These  involved  the window and the media system  and appear  to have been 
intermittent and so harder to diagnose. Ive seen that the window issue was raised  in June 
and repaired  in October.  
Lex Autolease accepted  the fault with the media system and offered Miss T compensation of 
£355 for that. It doesnt appear  to have accepted there was an issue with the window though  
Miss T provided  a photo of the window being open and a repair was then carried  out some  
months after shed  complained about the issue.  Lex Autolease  says that an additional £250 
in compensation  for that is unfair and excessive.
Ref: DRN70099245But Im satisfied there was an issue with the window that existed for some months albeit that 
it occurred on occasions rather than constantly.  However, an intermittent  fault is frustrating 
and distressing as Miss T wouldnt know when it would happen. I still think  an open window 
compromises the security  of the vehicle and just because the car wasnt  broken into nor had 
the interior soaked when it rained doesnt mean it didnt cause Miss T distress and 
inconvenience. Looking  at Lex Autoleases offer of £355 for the issue with the media system 
which arose at the same  time I think an additional  £250 for the problem with the window 
which lasted for some  time is fair and reasonable.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Miss Ts complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Miss Ts complaint. Im asking  Lex Autolease Ltd to 
pay Miss T compensation of £605  for having to deal with the faults  with the car and the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7009924