K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited  declined transactions  he attempted with his 
credit card and didnt provide a clear  explanation  of what  had happened. 
Mr M also complains  that Tandem Bank didnt respond to his request for information  under 
the General Data  Protection Rules (GDPR) in good  time. 
background 
Mr M has a credit  card with Tandem  Bank  and during June and July 2018 some  of the 
transactions he attempted were  declined. Mr M contacted Tandem Bank and complained.  
He also asked Tandem  Bank to answer  some questions he had about how it handles  and 
shares information about him. 
Tandem Bank responded to Mr Ms complaint on 3 August  2018  and said his transactions  
were correctly declined  because theyd triggered  a fraud alert on its systems. Tandem Bank  
gave some answers to Mr Ms quesstions.  
Mr M asked  this service to look at his complaint. An adjudicator reviewed what  had 
happened and initially asked Tandem Bank to pay Mr M £100 because of delays  in 
responding to Mr Ms complaint and information request. 
Tandem Bank responded and accepted it shouldve responded to Mr M more  quickly but 
didnt feel itd made an error by declining certain  transactions. Tandem Bank offered to pay 
£50 and the adjudicator  relooked  at their findings.  The adjudicator  said they thought  the offer 
of £50 was fair but Mr M asked for his complaint to be appealed  because he felt Tandem 
Bank shouldve  provided a better  explanation of what  happened  when his transactions were  
declined and that it shouldve responded to his information request  more quickly. 
As a result, Mr Ms case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial issue that caused Mr M to contact Tandem Bank relates to its systems declining 
transactions between  June  and July 2018.  Tandem  Banks told Mr M and this service that 
the transactions were declined because its automated systems picked up a risk of fraud. 
Tandem Banks also confirmed that it didnt block Mr Ms card at any point. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms statements and I can see he was able to use his card after his 
transactions were  declined. If his card had been blocked it wouldnt have worked at all so Im 
satisfied, from what  Ive seen, that there wasnt one in place. And Ive looked at 
Tandem Banks credit  card terms to see whether its allowed to decline a card payment if 
theres a concern over potential fraud. 
The credit card terms say Tandem Bank can decline a payment for a range of reasons, 
including if it suspects fraud or if the transaction appears unusual. I appreciate this is a 
generic list but from what Ive seen Im satisfied it covers what  Tandem Banks told us about 
Ref: DRN73860332what happened. Looking at the terms of the credit card, Ive not found any evidence  to show 
Tandem Bank made an error by declining the payments Mr Ms raised. 
Mr M asked  Tandem Bank to provide information  under the GDPR  rules and says it took it 
too long to respond. But how businesses store and share information as well as how they 
responded to information requests made  under GDPR isnt something the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  can look at. How businesses  handle information is regulated 
by the Information  Commissioners Office.  Mr M has the option of referring  his complaint 
about the timescales involved to that service  if he remains concerned about how 
Tandem Bank responded.
We can look at how a business has treated its customer and the service  it provides. And I 
can see that Mr M asked about  the declined payments and for information surrounding what  
happened on several occasions in June and July 2018. From  what  Ive seen, I agree 
Tandem Bank couldve  provided a better  level of service to Mr M and responded more 
quickly. 
I now need to decide whether the £50 Tandem Banks offered is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. As I havent found Tandem  Bank  made an error when it declined the payments in 
question Im not factoring this into the award.  I appreciate Tandem Bank couldve been 
clearer when it first discussed what happened  and that there were some delays. But I think  
the £50 its agreed  to pay reflects  the impact on Mr M and Im satisfied the offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Tandem Bank  Limited to pay Mr M £50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7386033