K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, will not refund a disputed 
transaction.
background
On 15th November  2018, an online transaction left Ms Ss account for the sum of £500.  The  
payment was made to a third party  via a guest account on PayPal.  Less  than an hour after 
the payment was made, Ms S telephone Halifax to complain.  She said she had not made 
nor authorised the payment.
Halifax credited Ms Ss account with the money  and carried out an investigation.  It carried  
out a chargeback query  where the merchants bank is contacted in order to challenge the 
payment.  A chargeback  can be defended  and in Ms Ss case  it was.  The merchant 
responded to say that during the transaction,  it had been provided with Ms Ss correct  details 
 including  her home  address.  The service purchased  was something called Voice Over 
Internet Protocol (VOIP)  a service which allows individuals to make calls to anyone in the 
world without the use of telephone companies.
So, Halifax  re-debited Ms Ss account  and rejected her complaint.  In its final response to 
her, it offered  her £100 for the poor service  it had provided in giving her incorrect 
information.
Ms S then came to this service where our investigator looked into matters  for her.  Our  
investigator concluded she couldnt ask Halifax to do anymore  and she explained why to Ms 
S.  She (the investigator)  relied on inconsistencies  in Ms Ss account to Halifax  and the one 
she gave to this service.
Ms S didnt agree - so the matter  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Based on what I have seen I will not be upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Ms S made  or 
authorised this transaction, Halifax is entitled to hold her liable.  But  its not enough to show 
that the payment was authenticated using Ms Ss card.  Halifax has to show that she also 
consented to the payment being made.
Looking at the evidence, I am satisfied that Ms Ss card was used to make this payment  
and for the following  reasons, I do not think it is unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude  that 
she also consented to the payment too:
-there is some inconsistency in what Ms S told Halifax  when she first reported the 
transaction and what she told this service.  She  told us that she had lost her card and 
her bag  but in her initial call to Halifax, she is quite clear that she still had her card 
in her possession. There  is no doubt  in her answer.  The  inconsistency  is relevant 
because it goes  to the credibility of Ms Ss evidence:
Ref: DRN78509892-in that same call, its clear Ms S is ringing Halifax to report  the pending transaction.   
That would make sense  as her online banking shows she had just logged  on minutes 
before. However,  Ms S told this service that Halifax informed her of the pending  
transaction when  she phoned to report her card lost.  Again, I refer to the issue of 
credibility:
-in the response  to the chargeback query, the merchant has provided Ms Ss name 
and address which was provided to them during the transaction.  Based on Ms Ss 
account to us - that she lost her card and bag - I am unable to see how someone 
would be able to access her details such as a home address.
In the circumstances, I will not be asking Halifax to do anymore here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7850989