K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank Plc won't  refund four debit card payments made with his
card. Mr B says he neither made them nor authorised anyone  else to do so. Metro Bank
says that they were  made using the genuine  card, and three  of them  were  made  using 
Mr B's PIN. It says it follows that he was either  involved  or that he didn't take proper care of 
his card and PIN.
background
Mr B has explained that he was visiting  relatives in the USA at the end of 2017 and in early
2018. He took a number  of cards with him, including his Metro Bank card,  although he didn't
use it while he was there.
On 10 January 2018 the card was used to make  four purchases, totalling  just over £4,000.
One was a low value contactless payment, but Metro Bank says the others  were  made  using
the card's chip and were  verified by the use of the PIN associated with the card. I'll return to
that issue later.
Mr B has provided evidence that he returned  to the UK on 9 January - the day before the
disputed payments. He called  Metro  Bank  on 10 January, having tried to pay rent and found
out that he had less money in his account than he should have had. He explained that he'd
found out he didn't have his card with him, having checked his belongings on his return  from
the USA. He said however that he hadn't kept a record  of his PIN and was unsure how
anyone could have  used the card.
Metro Bank  looked  into what  had happened.  It said that three of the payments had been
made using  Mr B's card and PIN. It followed that Mr B had either let someone  else use his
card or hadn't taken  proper  care of his card and PIN.
Mr B referred the case to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He wasn't
persuaded, however, that the bank's evidence did show that the PIN had been used  
although he was satisfied that the genuine card had been. He thought  it most likely  that
someone had been  able to obtain the card and use it; but he didn't think  this meant  Mr B
hadn't taken proper care of the card. He recommended that Metro Bank refund the
payments and make a further payment of £100 to Mr B.
Metro Bank  didn't accept the investigator's recommendations and asked that an ombudsman
review the case.  In addition, it provided further  evidence which,  it said,  showed that the PIN
had been used with the genuine card.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional  decision. I accepted  that Mr B hadnt made the 
disputed payments himself; hed left the USA by the time they were  made.  But, unlike the 
investigator, I thought that Metro  Bank  had shown that Mr Bs PIN had been  used for three  of 
the four payments.  Since Mr B had said he didnt  keep  a written record  of the PIN and the 
PINs not kept in accessible form on the card itself, I thought the most  likely explanation for 
the disputed transactions was that Mr B had allowed someone  else to keep  his card and to 
use it with the PIN, after hed returned  to the UK. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to submit further evidence  and arguments, if they wanted  
to do so. Mr B replied to say that he didnt accept  my provisional  findings. As well as 
expressing surprise at those findings,  he noted that my provisional decision hadnt 
Ref: DRN74736622commented on the fact that there  had been  attempts to use the card after it had been 
blocked. I have  therefore reviewed the case again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue in this case is how Mr Bs card and PIN came  to be used in the USA after hed 
returned to the UK. He says someone  must have stolen or found the card and used it after 
he left. In my provisional findings, however, I thought it more  likely that hed given someone  
the card and PIN and allowed them to carry out the transactions. 
Mr B didnt provide  any further information  about  his trip to the USA in response to my 
provisional decision  information that might, for example,  indicate  who might  have  obtained 
his card and in what circumstances. He did however refer to attempts to use the card after it 
had been blocked. 
Metro Banks records indicate three further  attempts  to use the card after Mr B had reported  
it missing. The first was an online payment to a gambling site Mr B had used previously  and 
was most likely generated by the site  using details it already held for Mr B. The second 
was for an online  flight  booking which Mr B says he made. Neither would have  needed the 
card to be present  and neither  was directly linked to the events giving rise to this complaint. 
The third attempted  use was however  in the USA; it was an attempt to use the genuine card 
with the PIN. 
Mr B says that the further attempt  to use the card after it had been blocked is an indication 
that he wasnt involved. I can understand his argument here; it might suggest that whoever 
had the card didnt  know  it had been  blocked and expected still to be able to use it. I note 
however that this further use was a week after Mr B had reported the card missing;  there  
had been no attempts to use it in that time. 
It may be significant too that the further attempt to use the card was made only when Metro  
Bank had told Mr B that it wouldnt be making a refund  and had explained why. If  as I 
indicated in my provisional decision I thought was the case   someone  had Mr Bs card with 
his consent, they would be able to make a further  attempt to use the card once it was 
apparent that Metro  Bank wasnt prepared to make a refund. 
Nothing about the further attempt to use the card, however, really  helps to explain how, as 
Mr B says,  someone managed to get hold of his card and PIN without his knowledge or 
authority. Im not therefore persuaded that I should change my conclusions from those set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Metro Bank  Plc to take any further  steps to resolve  
Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Ref: DRN74736623Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7473662