K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Coutts & Company  wont extend the term of his interest only mortgage.  
Mr W is being represented  by a third party. 
background
Mr W had a mortgage with Coutts that he took out in 2012 on an interest only term for five 
years. The total amount of borrowing was £1,250,000 and it was made up of three loans. 
The mortgage terms all expired in 2017.  Mr W says he asked to take equity out the property 
to put into his business, a term extension on his mortgage and he also asked to borrow more 
money secured  against a second  property. 
As well as putting money into the business, Mr W said he planned to build a property on land 
next to his current home, and then sell his main property  enabling  him to repay the 
mortgage.
Mr W says both the term extension and the extra  borrowing were agreed by his Coutts 
personal banker  during a meeting at his home  address.  He later found out after going 
through the full application  that Coutts were  not willing  to extend the term or lend to him 
further. 
Coutts said that its not prepared to extend the term as Mr W doesnt meet their affordability 
criteria. It said Mr W was unable to evidence  any real income  through his company 
accounts. It went on to say that Mr W could repay the mortgage  by selling the property  and 
on that basis he is making the choice to not pay back the money rather than not being  able 
to. 
Mr W complained  to Coutts about the term extension but his complaint  wasnt  upheld, so he 
bought it to our service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said Mr W 
would have been aware that the further borrowing would have needed to go through  a full 
application process, and not on the word  of the banker. He went  on to say there was no 
historic data to show that Mr W could meet the affordability assessment.  He also found  the 
mortgage paperwork was clear in detailing the term and the amount owed. 
Mr W remained unhappy so the complaint  has been passed to me to issue  a final decision. 
my findings
I issued a provisional decision on 21November 2018 saying I intend not to uphold this 
complaint. This is what I said - 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a number of points I need  to address in this complaint, I will set them out 
individually.
Ref: DRN71138732I understand Mr W has said that when he met with his banker that the term extension and 
borrowing was done.  There is no record of this conversation in the notes the business has 
provided from the meeting, so its difficult for me to make a finding  on what may or may not 
have been said.  Having said that, Mr W would have had to go through  a full application when  
he originally took out the mortgage and I think  its more  likely he knew that he would need to 
go through a further application for the new borrowing. But even if Mr W had been given 
incorrect information he relied on, the correct thing to do here would not be to instruct Coutts 
to give Mr W the term extension, it would be to compensate Mr W for the loss of expectation 
he potentially suffered.  
Income and Affordability
The rules  of mortgage regulation changed in April 2014, to make interest only lending more 
restricted. However, there were exceptions built into the rules for existing borrowers with the 
same lender,  known  as the transitional  provisions. These rules  dont initially  apply in Mr Ws 
case as he is looking for further  borrowing. So Im satisfied he would need to go through  a 
full application  and this includes an affordability test. Based on the information Ive seen  from 
both parties, I dont think Coutts  have been unreasonable  when they have said Mr W hasnt 
evidenced that he can afford the monthly  payments. The information  Mr W has given the 
business is a copy of his business loan account  and doesnt document any regular income. 
There was also no evidence of his ability to take out funds from his business.  
Having said that, if there  was no additional  borrowing and Mr W was happy to borrow the 
same amount, Coutts could decide  not to carry out an affordability assessment  or decide  
not to use one to refuse the application for a term extension  if it would be in Mr Ws best 
interests to extend the term. Ill explain below why I dont think that would be in his best 
interests.
Mr W has also asked  for a second charge to be applied to his properties. Coutts have 
declined this request  for similar reasons to the extension of the term. They have also added  
that they are unable  to take a second charge when the main mortgage term has ended.  
Mr Ws best interests
When considering  if the extension  is in the best interests of Mr W, I also have to consider the 
implications of him not being able to make his monthly payments  and the possibility that 
building a property  on the same land doesnt  work out as he has planned. 
There are risks associated with building a property  Mr W could find he doesnt get 
permission to build on the land. There is also the possibility that it costs more than Mr W 
borrowed or takes much longer than he initially thought. Added to the fact Mr W has been 
unable to evidence  he can afford  the potential monthly payments, I also dont think that Mr W 
has shown that further borrowing would clearly  be in his best interests.
As well as considering  the application of the mortgage rules,  though,  I also have to consider 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  As Ive said, the starting  point is that 
Mr W took their mortgage out on the basis that hed pay the capital back  at the end of the 
term. Mr W can do that now if he were to sell his residential property. And I cant  see 
anything to prevent  Mr W from buying  a property with the equity from the sale.  So as Mr W 
has the means to pay his mortgage back, I dont think  its unreasonable that Coutts is 
expecting him to do so.
Ref: DRN71138733Six month term extension
In the banks representatives email  sent on 21 July 2017 she explains that Mr Ws mortgage 
term can be extended by six months to give him time to raise  the capital  or put the property 
on the market  they followed up this email to say that Mr W had yet to confirm  either  had 
been done. As they specified  the terms in which they would offer this extension, I dont  find it 
unreasonable that they withdrew  the offer when they received no information from Mr W 
regarding the sale or proposal for paying  the money back. Mr W has said that had he known 
earlier that Coutts were  not willing to extend his term,  he could have got borrowing 
elsewhere. I understand Mr W would have  preferred  to have done this in the previous tax 
year, but Ive seen nothing to suggest  that this option is not still open to him. 
Mis-leading mortgage  paperwork
Mr W has complained that the mortgage offer he received is misleading and the dates of 
expiry are not clear. I can see that the mortgage  offer letter gives  the start date of all three 
loans and details  these are over a term of five years. So I dont find Coutts have  done  
anything wrong  or provided misleading information here. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Coutts responded to my decision but had nothing further to add. 
Mr Ws representative sent back a number of points  
The provisional decision doesnt address the banks behaviour  in an email  sent 14 
July 2017. 
Mr W met the Coutts member  of staff in the bank not his home.
The banks records concerning the meeting that took place are incomplete, as they 
dont document  the personal  banker agreeing to the term extension and further 
borrowing.
I should make a finding on the above  point based on the balance  of probabilities and 
the bank has offered  no evidence  on this.
Mr W wasnt aware he would have to go through a full application.
The information supplied  to the bank  and their knowledge of Mr Ws property portfolio 
was sufficient to demonstrate  his ability to meet the additional payments.
The bank  had ample security on the main property and Mr W offered additional 
security. Mr W has since proved that he has been able to service  the loans on the 
main property  as well as others.
 Mr W complied with the banks conditions attached to the six month extension. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W mentions  in his communication to Coutts  that the meeting that took place between  him 
and his banker  was in house. I now understand this to mean at Coutts, this has been 
corrected in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN71138734Mr Ws representative has said that the banks records concerning the meeting that took 
place are incomplete, as they dont document the personal banker agreeing to the term 
extension and further borrowing - and I should make a finding on the above  point  based  on 
the balance of probabilities. 
This point  has been addressed in my provisional decision and neither party  has provided any 
new evidence to change  my findings. Coutts  has provided the notes from the meeting that 
took place  and Im satisfied that even  if Mr W had been given  incorrect  information, and 
Ive not found  that he was, I find it more likely than not that Mr W would  have been  aware  
that he needed to go through a full application before the lending was guaranteed.  We are 
talking about a significant amount of money here and Im not persuaded that Mr W believed 
this money could be lent purely  on the basis of a conversation with his banker without any 
formal process being completed. 
Mr Ws representative has gone on to say that the information supplied to the bank and their 
knowledge of Mr Ws property portfolio was sufficient to demonstrate his ability to meet  the 
additional payments.
Coutts carried out an affordability  test and declined the further lending based  on the lack of 
evidence Mr W supplied to show he could meet the monthly payments. As mentioned  above, 
the money Mr W was looking to borrow was a significant amount, and Coutts needed  to be 
certain Mr W could  repay this.  Coutts  also looked  into the possibility of security on a second 
property but explained that this wasnt an option when the first property term had ended.
Mr Ws representative has said that Mr W complied with the banks conditions attached to the 
six month extension.  The conditions Coutts set were  that Mr W seek  alternative finance  or 
put the house up for sale. I cant see any evidence that Mr W did get alternative finance  or 
put the property  up for sale. I understand that Mr W was in the process of seeking an 
alternative mortgage but I cant  see that Coutts  were ever made aware that this has been  
arranged 
Mr Ws representative has said that the provisional decision doesnt address the banks 
behaviour in an email  sent 14 July 2017.  From the information Ive been provided by both 
parties Ive only seen a final response  letter sent to Mr W on this date. Having read the letter,  
its in line with how I would expect Coutts  to respond to Mr Ws complaint.  
In summary  I havent received any information  from either party that I hadnt considered 
previously. And it follows that my decision remains the same. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71138735
Ref: DRN7113873