K821x#15complaint
Ms T is being represented by solicitors. Shes complaining about Quilter Financial Limited 
(formerly Caerus Financial Limited) because she says one of its advisers  failed to tell her an 
investment with Green Oil Plantations Ltd made through her self-invested personal pension  
(SIPP) was a high-risk, unregulated scheme.  Her representative says the adviser failed to 
assess whether it was suitable for Ms T and that she ended  up with an investment involving 
a greater degree of risk than she was willing to accept.
background
This complaint concerns  the actions of an adviser,  Mr W, of Bridgewater Financial Services  
Ltd. At the time of the events being complained about, Bridgewater was an appointed 
representative of Paradigm  Financial Advisers Ltd (later Caerus  Financial Ltd, now Quilter 
Financial Limited). My understanding  of events is based on the information  both parties  have 
provided.
In 2008, Ms T started a SIPP with Hartley-SAS. She originally  dealt with a firm of advisers 
called De Montfort Professional Wealth Management. 
Ms T then says she became unhappy with the fees DeMontfort charged. On 22 April 2010,  
she signed an agreement  with Bridgewater  to act as her adviser  under  its bronze 
programme. On the same date,  she signed a letter for the SIPP  provider confirming it should 
now record Bridgewater as her servicing  adviser.  DeMontfort confirmed it had been notified  
Ms T had changed advisers in a letter  dated  20 May 2010.
Ms Ts representative says she was in contact with Mr A at a company called BluSky  
Investments about to a potential investment with Green Oil in March 2010.  And that later that 
month, she completed an application  to invest £16,000 through her SIPP.
According to her representative,  the SIPP provider told Ms T she wouldnt be able to 
complete the investment without an independent financial adviser (IFA)  to facilitate it and 
provide advice. It was then that Mr A gave her Mr Ws contact details, in April 2010.
Ms Ts SIPP  statement shows  she made  a contribution of £13,000 on 30 April 2010. The 
remaining £3,000  of her investment into Green Oil was to be funded by tax relief  on her 
contribution and this wasnt  received into the SIPP  until 26 July 2010.
Ms T completed  another application in September 2010 and her investment into the Millettia 
leasehold scheme with Green Oil was finalised shortly after. I understand the investment has 
since failed and it looks like shes lost her money.
Ms T and her representative have argued  that Mr W knew where her money was intended to 
end up and provided her with advice on the investment.  She says she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with it otherwise.  But even if its concluded he didnt  advise on the investment, her 
representative says Mr W clearly  facilitated everything and shouldnt  have  done  so without 
first assessing whether  the investment was suitable.  It says she was a medium-risk investor 
and that this type of high-risk, unregulated investment wasnt  suitable  because it exposed 
her money to a greater  degree of risk than she would have knowingly accepted.
In contrast, Mr W says he didnt advise  Ms T, although he did assist with her with obtaining 
tax relief on her pension contribution. He believes the investment scheme  was already in 
Ref: DRN73497872force and she chose  to add more money and invest in Green Oil without any advice from 
him. Going  forward, Mr W says Ms T opted for Bridgewaters bronze  service, meaning it 
provided no reviews and simply forwarded documents  it received from the SIPP provider. 
Quilter didnt uphold  Ms Ts complaint. It said theres  no record  of Mr W advising Ms T on her 
investment. In any event,  it also said it was a requirement for all business submitted to 
Paradigm to be pre-approved and that the agreement between it and Bridgewater 
specifically prohibited it from dealing with this type of unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS). As such, it doesnt  feel it should  be held responsible  if Mr W acted outside 
the agreement  and did something he hadnt  been authorised  to do.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this is a complaint we can look at. While he felt Mr W at least 
helped to facilitate  the investment, and that this constituted a regulated activity, he also 
noted the agreement between Bridgewater and Paradigm excluded dealing  with UCIS and 
that this meant Quilter  couldnt  now be held responsible his actions.
Ms Ts representative didnt accept  the adjudicators assessment. It believes Quilter is 
responsible for the actions of its appointed representative and pointed out that she didnt 
know the details  of the agreement between Bridgewater and Paradigm.
I then reconsidered  the case and issued  my provisional decision explaining why I thought we 
can consider this complaint and why it should  be upheld.  An extract  is attached  and forms 
part of this decision. My decision  was refers  to Caerus Financial Ltd as it was issued  before  
it became Quilter.
Ms Ts representative confirmed she accepted my provisional  decision  and had nothing  
further to add. Quilter  didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following 
comments:
We are obviously concerned and alarmed that the service  has changed their opinion  
on this case without presenting any valid evidence that the adviser was acting on 
behalf of Caerus  Financial  Limited. Your adjudicator opined as much,  when he stated 
the following:
It's clear from these documents that the only unregulated collective 
investment schemes  that Caerus Financial Limited permitted its 
representatives to give advice on were Octopus Venture Capital  Trusts and 
Enterprise Investment Schemes, and these are only permitted  to some 
advisers. All other UCIS are explicitly not authorised.
Because Caerus Financial Limited  doesnt accept responsibility for this type 
of activity it falls outside of this services jurisdiction.
I have considered whether the act complained  about  is ancillary  from the 
carrying on of another  listed  regular activity  but I don't  think  thats the case  
here The complaint  letter  supplied by Ms T's representatives on 5 April 2016  
suggests that the matter could be linked to the setting up of Ms Ts SIPP.
Ms Ts SIPP  was established  in 2009 so I cant link the advice to establish 
the SIPP to the advice  to invest m Green Oil.
Ref: DRN73497873Therefore we are at a loss to understand this subsequent decision given that there is 
no evidence Caerus  provided advice on the named UCIS investment and in any 
event they didn't allow such investments therefore even if the adviser  was involved 
(which we dispute)  then the adviser did this outside  his permitted authority with 
Caerus.
We dispute we are liable in any event.
This response didnt  comment on what I said in my provisional decision about the merits of 
the complaint  and how it should be resolved. One of our investigators contacted  Quilter  so it 
knew I was still planning to resolve these  issues at the same  time as those relating to 
jurisdiction, and that it should make any further  submissions it wants me to take into account.  
It didnt respond in the time given.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Quilters response to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent  changed.
I note Quilter has referred back to the conclusions of the adjudicator  that considered  the 
case originally. I confirm  I was aware of this assessment and took it into account in reaching  
my provisional decision.
But after concluding my own review and taking account of what  the courts have said, often in 
cases decided after the date of the adjudicators  assessment, I felt the evidence showed  the 
adviser was acting as a Quilter (formerly Paradigm) representative. I also felt its ultimately  
responsible for those  actions, despite the nature of the appointed representative agreement 
and accompanying documentation. I explained the reasons for my view in detail.
I note Quilter continues to dispute that its liable, but its provided no further evidence that 
could lead me to change  my view.
My provisional decision also set out why I felt the advice Ms T received was unsuitable and 
what I thought  Quilter should  do to put things  right.  As it hasnt provided any further  
comment on these issues, I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Ms T accepts my decision, Quilter Financial  Limited must  pay her compensation calculated  
using the method set out in my provisional decision.  It should  also provide her with details of 
its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73497874extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  follow in assessing all aspects of 
this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published  as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
In reaching this decision, Ive relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
An email dated 12 April 2010, in which  Mr A provided Ms T with Mr Ws details.
An email from Mr W to Ms T dated 21 April 2010 that appears to discuss his fee for arranging  
the investment.
 
A document entitled Client Agreement for Financial Advice  Clients that Ms T signed on 22 
April 2010. 
A letter to the SIPP provider confirming it should now record Bridgewater  as Ms Ts servicing 
adviser, which she also signed on 22 April 2010.
An email dated 26 April 2010, in which  Ms T told Mr W shed faxed  over the investment 
application.
An email dated 5 May 2010, in which Hartley-SAS told Mr W it had received paperwork for 
her £16,000  investment. It then said it had only received  £13,000 so far and asked if it was 
waiting for tax relief for the rest.
An email dated 5 May 2010, in which Mr W replied to Hartley-SAS to confirm Ms T was 
waiting for tax relief before  her investment could be completed.
 
An email dated 5 May 2010, in which Hartley-SAS told Mr W it would go ahead  and process  
Ms Ts application.
A letter from DeMontfort to Ms T dated 20 May 2010, in which it confirmed  it had been told 
shed changed  advisers and would update its records. It also said:
As we have already  spent  time processing your Green Oil reinvestment for the 
current year and distributing the SMPI's  from the SIPP Provider,  I am unable to offer 
a refund of the fee that you have paid.
An email dated 4 June  2010, in which Mr W asked Hartley-SAS if it had received  the tax relief 
on Ms Ts £13,000  SIPP contribution yet.
An email dated 4 June  2010, in which Hartley-SAS told Mr W it still hadnt received the tax 
relief.
An email dated 18 June 2010, in which Lifetime SIPP told Mr W the refund was due to be paid 
into Ms Ts SIPP  in June.
Emails  also dated 18 June 2010,  showing  Mr W forwarded  Lifetime  SIPPs email to Ms T and 
that she received this.
A letter from Hartley-SAS to Green Oil dated 21 June 2000 enclosing  Ms Ts application.
Ref: DRN73497875An email dated 21 June 2010, in which Hartley-SAS told Mr W it was expecting  to receive  the 
tax relief soon and would then be able to complete the investment. It also said it had noticed a 
signature missing on Ms Ts application and asked  if it could send it to him with a covering  
letter for him to forward  to Green Oil once it was signed.
An application for investment in Green Oil signed by Ms T in September  2010.
A letter from Green Oil to Ms T dated 23 September 2010 confirming  her investment  in its 
Millettia leasehold investment.
A letter from Bridgewater to Ms T dated 28 April 2011 enclosing her annual SIPP statement. 
The letter  closed by inviting her to contact Mr W if she wanted advice on further investment  
options within the SIPP.
A transaction history for Ms Ts SIPP covering the period from 2008 to 2015.
The appointed representative agreement between Paradigm and Bridgewater and Paradigms  
compliance manual from the time of the investment.
If either party hasnt seen  any of this information, it can ask our investigator for copies before 
responding to this provisional decision.
jurisdiction
The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Caerus can be held responsible for the actions of its appointed representative.
Ive considered all the evidence to decide whether this is a complaint we can look at. We dont  have 
jurisdiction to consider all complaints about  appointed representatives.  Our jurisdiction depends on 
the facts of the case and we have to make  findings on the facts that are material to jurisdiction in 
order to decide whether a complaint is one we can look at.
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions  of an appointed representative, all the 
usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being  complained about take place when the representative  was an 
appointed representative of the principal?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant  eligible?
Was the complaint  made within the relevant time limits?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Ms T is an eligible  complainant, referred  her complaint 
to us in time,  we have territorial jurisdiction  and Bridgewater was an appointed representative  of 
Paradigm (now Caerus) at the time of the acts complained about. 
Beyond this, the issue of whether a principal  firm is responsible for the conduct of its appointed 
representative involves a three stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
s39 FSMA, agency  or vicarious liability.  
Ref: DRN73497876step 1  what are the specific acts being complained  about?
Im satisfied this complaint is essentially about the Mr Ws role in her investment with Green Oil and 
the suitability of the advice she says she received from him. Without advice  from Mr W, she says she 
wouldnt have made the investment and wouldnt  have lost her money.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated activities  or ancillary  to regulated 
activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO). The rights under  a personal pension scheme, which includes SIPPs,  are specified  as 
investments (article 82). So are the units in a collective  investment scheme (article  81). Advising on 
the merits of buying or selling these investments is a specified activity (article  53). So is arranging  
deals in investments (article  25), and agreeing  to advise  on investments or arrange deals in 
investments (article 64).
 
The Green  Oil investment  appears to have many of the qualities of a UCIS and both parties  have 
described the investment in that way. So Im currently satisfied that by either advising Ms T on her 
investment and/or helping her arrange it, Mr W would have been carrying out a regulated activity.
Im also conscious the investment took place within Ms Ts SIPP. Rights under a personal  pension 
constitute a specified investment in the same way that shares  or a CIS is a specified investment. So 
advising on and/or arranging for Ms T to place  an investment  in the SIPP  involved giving advice on 
and/or making arrangements for the rights under a pension. So in this case, activities involving the 
UCIS didnt only involve  the UCIS. They were also activities involving the rights in the SIPP.
I think  this point was established in the case of Burns v FCA (2018), in which the judge said:
244. Article  82 (2) of the RAO provides that "Rights under a personal pension  scheme" is a 
specified investment. "Personal pension scheme"  is defined by Article 3 of the RAO  as:
"a scheme or arrangement which is not an occupational scheme or a stakeholder pension 
scheme and which is comprised in one or more instruments or agreements, having  or 
capable of having effect so as to provide benefits  to or in respect of people 
(a) on retirement,
(b) on having reached a particular age, or
(c) on termination of service  in an employment"
245. A SIPP,  the essential  characteristics of which  we describe  at [120] above,  clearly falls 
within the scope of this definition  and therefore the rights  that the beneficiary of a SIPP  has 
under the trust arrangements  that establish the SIPP constitute a "specified investment".
246. Those  rights are also a "security"  for the purposes  of the RAO. Article 3 of the RAO 
defines "security"  as "an investment of the kind specified by any of Articles 76 to 82" of the 
RAO. The investments  that fall within the scope of that definition are, generally speaking,  
shares, debentures, government securities, interests in securities and units  in a collective  
investment scheme as well as rights under a pension scheme which  falls within  the scope of 
Article 82. It is worth mentioning at this point that in relation to collective investment  schemes, 
which are often similar in structure  to SIPPs, that "units" are defined  as "the rights or interests 
(however described) of the participants in a collective  investment scheme":  see s 237 (2) 
FSMA. The significance  of these rights being  a "security"  will become apparent when we 
examine the terms  of COBS 9.2.1 R.
247. The Authority has given guidance as to the scope of its regulation of rights in a personal  
pension scheme in that part of its Handbook known  as PERG. It does so in the form of 
questions and answers and the giving  of examples  as to the type of activity  which  is covered.
Ref: DRN73497877248. PERG 12.3 gives guidance as to what in the Authority's view constitute rights under a 
personal pension scheme that are specified investments and securities in the following terms:
"Q16. What are the rights  under a personal pension scheme that are specified  investments 
and securities?
These are all the rights  that membership of the scheme confers on a member.  This may vary 
(for example, where the scheme is a SIPP)  but is likely  to include some or all of the following 
rights:
to make payments to the scheme;
to withdraw sums from the scheme in certain circumstances;
to transfer value to another pension  scheme;
to receive benefits arising from the capital value  of or income derived from particular assets 
or from the performance of a unitised  fund;
to place  certain types of property (for example, commercial property) in the scheme;
to instruct the operator which assets to buy or sell for the purposes of the scheme;
to instruct the operator to switch funds from one managed or unitised fund to another;
to appoint a person  to manage  the assets or to give instructions to the operator about which  
assets to buy or sell on behalf of the member; and
to instruct the operator to borrow  money to purchase assets (for example,  to take out a 
mortgage on a commercial  property)."
249. We accept the list set out above as an accurate, but not necessarily  exhaustive, 
description of the principal rights arising under a personal  pension scheme, such  as a SIPP, 
which constitute "rights"  for the purposes of Article  82 of the RAO. In particular, we note the 
right to receive benefits  arising from the capital value  of or income derived  from particular  
assets, regardless of the nature of those assets and, in particular, whether  or not the assets 
are themselves specified  investments for the purposes of the RAO. Once again, we draw the 
analogy with units in a collective investment  scheme;  one of the rights conferred by a unit in a 
collective investment  scheme  is the right to realise  the unit by reference  to the value of the 
underlying assets of the scheme.
250. The consequence  of rights under a SIPP being a specified  investment is that they are 
subject to regulation by the Authority  if an authorised person conducts  any of the regulated 
activities specified by the RAO in relation to them. As the Authority correctly identifies in 
PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 15), that includes the regulated activities of dealing  
in investments as principal or agent, arranging  deals in investments, or advising on 
investments, all of which are activities specified as regulated  activities for the purposes 
of FSMA by virtue  of Articles  14 , 21 , 25 and 53 of the RAO respectively.
251. Continuing the analogy with collective  investment schemes,  it is also worth noting that 
pursuant to Article 52 (b) of the RAO , establishing, operating or winding up a personal 
pension scheme is a specified activity for the purposes of FSMA and is therefore  a regulated 
activity. This mirrors the provisions of Article 51ZE of the RAO  which provides that 
establishing, operating or winding up a collective investment scheme  is a specified activity. 
This analogy,  as well as those described  at [246] and [249] above lead us to conclude that 
Parliament intended the regulatory regime  to be applied to specified  activities relating to 
SIPPs to apply in the same  way as it does to activities in relation to specified  activities 
relating to collective investment schemes.
252. Turning  now to how the regulated activities  of dealing, arranging  and advising  can apply 
to rights in a SIPP, as the Authority states in PERG 12.3 (in its answer to its Question 17), 
among other things a member will be dealing  in rights  in the scheme when  he acquires them  
by joining the scheme, makes payments into the scheme or contributes assets to the scheme 
and the operator of the scheme will be dealing in investments when he grants rights to the 
member under the scheme. When an IFA on its customer's behalf  assists the customer with 
establishing the scheme with a SIPP  provider  the IFA is likely to be arranging deals  in 
investments.
Ref: DRN73497878Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about  fall within our jurisdiction 
as set out at DISP 2.3.1R. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on regulated activities.
step 3  is the principal firm responsible  for these regulated activities by reason of s39 FSMA, 
agency or vicarious liability?
Ive considered whether  Mr W was acting in his capacity  an appointed representative  of Paradigm at 
the time of the regulated activities. His relationship with Ms T appears to have been a professional 
one of financial advisor and client and shed only recently been introduced to him for the purpose of 
arranging her Green  Oil investment. Further, the correspondence between  them  is either  on 
Bridgewaters headed paper or using Mr Ws Bridgewater email address. The same is true of Mr Ws 
correspondence with the SIPP provider.  
Taking these  points into account, I think I can only reasonably conclude Mr W was acting as a 
representative of Paradigm. This means that if what he did was business  for which Paradigm 
accepted responsibility, the acts being complained  about were also its acts.
DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed representative 
in relation to the business  it has accepted  responsibility for.
On the subject of appointed representatives,  at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA  said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility. (my emphasis)
So under section 39, the principal is required to accept  responsibly  for that business,  which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However the recent case  of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] makes it clear the words  part of in section 39 allow a principal firm to accept  
responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In other words, 
Paradigm was entitled  to appoint Bridgewater as a representative and limit the scope of the regulated  
activities it could carry out and that it would be responsible for.
In terms of this complaint  against Caerus, the above means I can consider  it if the acts being 
complained about included business for which Paradigm accepted responsibility.
Ref: DRN73497879The appointed  representative agreement set out the terms of the arrangement  between Bridgewater 
and Paradigm. Under the heading Appointment, section 2 says:
The Firm [Paradigm] hereby appoints the Representative [Bridgewater] as its appointed 
representative, subject to the terms of this Agreement. The firm authorises the 
Representative to conduct the Relevant Activities.
Section 5 goes on to say:
The Firm accepts  full responsibility for anything said or done or omitted by the Representative  
in carrying  on the Relevant Activities, but not for any other activities
conducted by the Representative.
The agreement defines the relevant activities as follows:
Relevant Activities means the activities regulated  under FSMA set out in Schedule 1 which 
the Appointed  Representative will be carrying  out under this Agreement;
The situation  is clarified further in chapter 1 of Paradigms compliance manual, adherence  to which I 
understand was effectively also part of the agreement, said:
Firm Categorisation & Permissions
Important - Please read
Each Member of PFA [Paradigm] is only permitted to act within the permissions allocated  to 
PFA by the Financial Services Authority. These permissions are as follows:
The manual then gives a list of products Paradigm is authorised to deal with, which  includes 
investments and personal pensions.
My interpretation of these documents is that Paradigm  was authorised  to arrange  and give advice on 
pensions and investments. This included  SIPP and UCIS. And that the basis of the arrangement was 
that Bridgewater was also authorised to arrange and give advice on the same products.
I note chapter 3 of the compliance manual says:
Unregulated Collective Investments
PFA will allow Member Firms  to advise  on Octopus Venture  Capital Trusts (VCT's) and 
Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS) subject to an adviser having relevant  experience  and 
knowledge in this complex advice area. All other unregulated collective  investments, for 
example film partnerships and hedge funds,  will not be allowed under PFA authorisation.
This effectively says Bridgewater wasnt authorised to advice on UCIS other than schemes it had 
already approved. Because the Green Oil investment wasnt one of these approved schemes, Caerus 
takes the view that Mr W acted outside his authority and that it cant be held responsible for his 
actions.
As Ive said above, I dont  think any activities involving the UCIS can be artificially  separated from the 
SIPP. By advising Ms T on and/or helping  her make  arrangements  for the Green Oil investment, I 
believe Mr W was also giving advice on and/or  making arrangements for Ms Ts pension. Further,  I 
dont think the Green Oil investment would  have  proceeded if Mr W hadnt given that advice  and/or 
made arrangements  involving her pension. Im satisfied the agreement  and compliance manual are 
clear Bridgewater was authorised to deal in pensions, and this means  Mr Ws activities in respect of 
the Green Oil investment  were activities  he was authorised to carry out and that Paradigm accepted 
responsibility for.
Ref: DRN734978710In its response to this complaint, Caerus  has also pointed out that Paradigm required all business to 
be pre-approved. This is described in chapter 1 of the compliance manual as follows:
PFA operate a 100% pre approval  system whereby all business is checked by an
appropriately qualified File Reviewer before the business  proceeds.
 
So there is an argument  that Mr W acted outside the terms of his agreement with Paradigm by not 
seeking pre-approval for the business he did with Ms T. But after considering this point  carefully, I 
dont currently think this is sufficient  for me to say Caerus isnt responsible for his actions. This is 
based on what the courts have said about  this type of restriction.
In Ovcharenko v Investuk  Ltd (2017),  the judge said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).  First the court  set out the purpose of the statutory provision 
it was interpreting. The judge said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described.
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgment and the following  description of the clause] which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
Ref: DRN734978711failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
The judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service  (2018) agreed with the above. In that 
case the network principal had argued that it was not responsible  for advice to invest in an investment 
in which it did not authorise the appointed representative to deal.   The judge  said:  
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet  as having such 
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So it is clear  that the courts think that at least  some  conditions on the authority given to an appointed 
representative in its agreement with the principal only apply as between the parties. Does that mean  
all terms in the contract apply in that way? The answer  to that question is no because of the words 
part of in section 39 of FSMA.
None of the cases I referred to above dealt with this point.  But it was dealt with in a recent case on 
the subject:  Anderson v Sense Network (2018). In that case the judge said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
AR's actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
Ref: DRN734978712because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants' expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingram's evidence  was that he knew that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
All this means a principal  is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed representative 
acting within their actual authority. It also means that sometimes a principal is responsible when the 
appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority. And sometimes a principal is not 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority. The test in the 
Anderson v Sense Network  judgment is that the principal is responsible when the act or omission is 
sufficiently closely linked to the activities for which  the actual authority was given.  
To answer this question in this case, its necessary to:
identify  a foundation provision in the appointed representative agreement; and
ask whether the activity was sufficiently closely linked to that foundation  provision.  
In my view,  the foundation provision established  in the agreement was that Bridgewater was entitled 
to deal in products  Paradigm itself was authorised to deal in, which included investments and 
pensions. This is the substance of the business for which  Paradigm accepted responsibility.
I think  the judge  in the Anderson v Sense Network case was clear  that the fact certain duties needed 
to be fulfilled  when carrying  out a particular piece of business doesnt mean  the principal isnt 
responsible for that piece of business if those duties werent fulfilled.
In the circumstances,  I believe this restriction applies to the manner  in which the foundation provision 
was exercised rather than the substance  of the business Paradigm was accepting responsibility  for. In 
my view, activities involving Ms Ts personal pension subject  to all business being pre-approved 
(which Paradigm did accept responsibility  for) is sufficiently  closely linked to activities involving Ms Ts 
pension where pre-approval  wasnt  sought.  As a result, I think the pre-approval restriction only 
applied as between the parties (inter-se ) and isnt sufficient for me to conclude Paradigm (and now 
Caerus) isnt responsible  for Mr Ws actions  in this case.
conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied the activities of advising on and/or making  arrangements involving Ms Ts SIPP and her 
investment into the UCIS run by Green Oil were regulated  activities.  I further believe these  were 
activities for which Paradigm accepted responsibility. 
It may be that Mr W went beyond  what he was strictly authorised to do in the appointed representative  
agreement as clarified in the compliance manual. That included failing to seek  pre-approval for this 
business. But I think his acts were sufficiently closely linked to activities he was authorised to carry  
Ref: DRN734978713out and for which Paradigm  accepted  responsibility.  The restrictions set out in the compliance manual 
were in my view between the parties and arent sufficient  for Caerus  to avoid being held responsible 
for the entirety of Mr Ws actions.
On balance, and taking everything into account, I think Ms Ts complaint falls within  our jurisdiction 
and is one I can consider.
merits
Mr W says he didnt advise Ms T on the investment, but I think the evidence  indicates  she was at 
least entitled  to believe  he did. It appears shed  already identified the Green Oil scheme  as a possible 
place for her money, but she says Hartley-SAS told her she needed  to consult an independent  
adviser before proceeding  and I understand thats consistent with its normal  procedure.
Whether or not he actually advised  Ms T, I think theres clear evidence  Mr W was at least involved in 
arranging and facilitating  the investment. This includes various email correspondence between Mr W 
and Hartley-SAS about the investment and the tax relief that partly funded it. It also seems clear Mr W 
was due to be paid for his role in arranging the investment, as confirmed  in an email to Ms T on 21 
April 2010 in which he said:
As far as the transaction charge is concerned, I am happy  for [Mr As] firm to settle this on 
your behalf but it does  remain your liability until my fee has been settled.  My charge will be 
4% of the gross premiums or transfer paid. 
Once she consulted with Mr W, I think it was reasonable  for Ms T to believe she was receiving  advice. 
In particular, I note the title of the document she signed on 22 April 2010 said it was an agreement for 
financial advice clients. It then explained the scope of the advice Bridgewater  provided  and the 
protections shed benefit from.  
Ms T appears to have opted for the bronze (rather than the silver  or gold) programme. This was 
described as follows:
3 - The Bronze  Programme (reactive)
This programme is entirely reactive. It is for clients who do not require  ongoing service and do 
not wish to pay a regular retainer, but still want to know we are available  should  they need us.
The main features of this programme are:
There are no monthly retainers  or other regular fees.
Work will only be undertaken at your request.
Your file will only be updated when you have requested a service.
A fee will need to be charged for updating your file before any work  is commenced. 
This will also be agreed with you in advance.
Fees will be agreed with you for each service  prior to work commencing.
I think  this set expectations for a future relationship  in which Ms T would only receive  advice when 
she requested  it. But I dont think  theres anything in this description or elsewhere in the agreement  
that should  have made Ms T aware the adviser didnt consider he was advising her on the Green Oil 
investment in exchange for his fee. If Mr W wasnt providing advice, he could have asked her to sign 
an execution-only or similar agreement confirming  that. This is common practice  in the industry.
In my view,  the evidence indicates Mr W effectively held himself out to be providing advice on this 
transaction and Ms T was entitled to believe she was receiving it. 
Im aware Ms T seems to have found the Green Oil investment  before she met Mr W, but he clearly  
knew where her money  was going to be invested. As her adviser, he had a responsibility to make 
Ref: DRN734978714sure it was suitable  for her circumstances and needs. And if he didnt think  it was, to make  her aware  
of that. 
I think  this view is supported by an Alert on pension  transfers with a view to investing  into 
unregulated products  through  SIPPs  issued  by the regulator  at that time, the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) - in January  2013. Although the alert was issued after the actions  in this case took 
place, it commented on how the rules should have been complied with at the time.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advise rs are giving 
advice  to custom ers on pension transfers or pension switche s without assessing the 
advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be held within the new 
pension. In particula r, we have seen financial adviser s moving custom ers retirement  
savings to self-invest ed persona l pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high  
risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  investme nts  (some   which  may  be  in Unregulated   
Collective   Investment   Schemes) .  Examples   of   these   unreg ulated investme nts are  
overseas property developm ents, store  pods,  forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The financial 
adviser does not give advice on the unreg ulated investme nt, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investme nt (e.g an overseas 
property development).  When customers express an interest in the unregulated investment, 
the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP 
capable of holding the unregulated investment.  The financial adviser does not give advice 
on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of 
holding the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does not give advice on the 
unregulated investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding the 
unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial  adviser also assists the customer 
to unlock  monies  held in other investments  (e.g. other pension arrangements)  so that the 
customer is able to invest  in the unregulated  investment.
. . . .
Financ ial advisers using this advice  model are under the mistake n impression that this 
process means they do not have to conside r the unregulate d investme nt as part of their 
advice  to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice   generally requires 
consid eration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investm ent in other produc ts (such as SIPPs), 
consid eration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected unde rlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It should be particula rly clear to 
financial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
impleme nting a wider investment strategy the pension  transfer must take account of the 
overall investme nt strategy the custom er is contemplatin g.
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  knowi ng  that  the 
customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment unde r a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property 
investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer into 
the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual  circumst ances of the custom er, the 
original pension produc t, including its unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the 
customer, then the SIPP is not suitable .
Ref: DRN734978715This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recomm endation will enable 
investme nt in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from 
the regulated eleme nts.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business  rules and 
also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial circumst ances. Unless the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a positi on to make recomm endations on new 
produc ts.
The circumstances of Ms Ts case are slightly  different in that her SIPP was already established. But I 
think the guidance  is clear  that advisers  shouldnt  be making arrangements with a consumers 
pension that will facilitate  the use of unregulated investments  without first considering whether  that 
investment is suitable for them.
Its my view Mr W shouldnt have made arrangements within Ms Ts SIPP  without also giving advice 
on the suitability of the investment she was proposing. If he wasnt willing or able to do that, he should  
have refused to act so Ms T could speak to another adviser who was. I therefore believe I need to 
consider whether the Green Oil investment was suitable for Ms T. And if it wasnt that its appropriate 
to uphold this complaint against Caerus.
Ms T has said that at the time she thought the Green Oil investment was relatively safe. She says she 
didnt feel the guaranteed  returns  were  excessive  and believed it to be an alternative kind of fixed 
interest product.  She says she wouldnt have proceeded with it but for Mr Ws involvement. Her 
representative has described her as a medium  rather than high-risk investor.
In the absence  of an assessment of Ms Ts attitude  to investment risk, or any other advice 
documentation such as a fact find or suitability letter,  Ive no reason to doubt what  her representative 
has said about this on her behalf.  And this seems broadly  consistent  with the evidence  provided in 
relation to her existing  pension arrangements. Since the SIPP was arranged in 2008 and prior to her 
contribution in 2010,  the statement shows Ms T had paid around £19,000 in contributions. So the 
amount she invested with Green Oil was a substantial part of her pension.
The Green  Oil investment  wasnt  invested  in a well-diversified selection of equities  and other orthodox 
assets. It instead invested in a single  commodity that was based overseas.  Further,  it was an 
unregulated investment  that meant Ms T couldnt fall back on the protection  offered by the Financial  
Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS) if things  went  wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised  
investment of the type the industry regulator has more  recently  said shouldnt be promoted to 
unsophisticated retail  investors.  In my view,  the investment  presented a higher risk than Ms T was 
willing to accept and shouldnt have been recommended, particularly for such a large portion of her 
pension funds.
Ms Ts account indicates  this was her first investment with Green Oil, but it seems the adviser thinks  
she may have  previously used unregulated investments  within her SIPP. If thats the case, and 
assuming she fully understood the risks involved with her previous investments and the possible 
implications of using them  which I dont think is at all clear at this stage - then Id still have serious  
concerns because that would mean an even larger portion  of her pension was invested in this way. In 
those circumstances,  I wouldnt think she should  have  been advised  to make further high-risk 
investments of this type at the time she put money into Green  Oil.
On balance, I think  Mr W should have advised Ms T on the suitability of the Green Oil investment  and 
recommended against  it. Alternatively, if hed refused to act, I think she would have got that advice 
from another regulated  investment adviser. As far as Im aware, Ms T had no particular  connection  to 
the fund or the introducer who proposed it in the first place. So I dont think theres  any reason to 
believe she wouldnt have accepted clear and well-reasoned advice from a regulated IFA not to 
proceed with the investment. So it follows that but for Mr Ws error in thinking  he could facilitate  the 
Ref: DRN734978716arrangement of the Green Oil scheme without advising on whether  it was suitable, I dont think  Ms T 
would have invested in it and would  have selected an alternative investment instead.
I note Ms T appears to have  completed an application  for the Green Oil investment in March 2010, 
before she met Mr W. But Ive not seen  anything to indicate this committed her to the investment  such 
that she couldnt  change her mind. I think the view she wasnt committed at that stage is supported by 
the fact she completed a further application  form in September  2010 once her tax rebate was 
received and before  the investment was finalised.
putting things  right
My aim is to return Ms T (as far as possible) to the position shed probably now be in if shed received 
suitable advice. As Ive explained above,  I think  this would have meant she invested her SIPP 
contribution differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  she would have done,  but Im satisfied 
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances and objectives  at the time.
 
what should Caerus do?
 
To compensate Ms T fairly, I currently think Caerus  should compare the performance of her Green Oil 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value,  
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. Caerus may also need  to add interest  as set out below.
If theres a loss, Caerus should pay into Ms T's pension  plan to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Caerus is unable to pay the compensation into Ms T's pension plan, it should pay that amount  direct 
to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Ms T's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
her selected  retirement  age. For example, if shes likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if Ms T would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Caerus deducts income  tax from the interest, it 
should tell Ms T how much has been taken off. Caerus  should give her a tax deduction  certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  any overpaid tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Green Oil unclearFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of final decision 
to date 
compensation 
is paid (if this 
isnt done 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN734978717actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as I believe is likely  to be the case  
here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Caerus  should  
take ownership of the illiquid investment  by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the pension 
provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out 
above.
If Caerus is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. Caerus may require that Ms T provides an undertaking  to pay it any amount 
she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Caerus will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  into Green Oil would  have  been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Caerus  totals all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms T wanted capital  growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Ms T's 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
additional compensation
I think  the failure to provide  suitable advice and the resultant loss of a significant  sum from her 
pension fund has caused  Ms T unnecessary trouble and upset and that she should be compensated 
for this. The impact of this situation, and therefore  the amount  to award,  is difficult to assess. But in 
the circumstances of this case, I think a substantial award  of £500  is fair and reasonable.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Caerus Financial 
Limited should pay Ms T compensation calculated  using  the method  set out above, including the 
additional £500 for her trouble and upset as Ive described. 
Ref: DRN7349787