K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc sent a letter  intended for him to the wrong  address. He 
also complains that when trying to resolve  the issue, he found out all his personal details had 
been erased from its system. 
background
TSB posted  a letter intended for Mr B to the wrong address. Mr Bs neighbour returned the 
letter to him unopened,  and he discovered  that it was notification  of bailiffs  potentially 
attending his property. When Mr B tried to telephone TSB to change his address, he couldnt 
do so because it couldnt identify him as most of his details werent on the system anymore  
including things like his mothers  maiden name. Mr B complained. 
TSB looked into Mr Bs complaint. In short,  it acknowledged that letters  had been sent to Mr 
Bs previous address  through bank  error.  It confirmed that this had now been  fixed and his 
address had been updated. It also acknowledged that Mr B had been  frustrated in his 
attempts to contact  the bank because  his profile  had been delinked  after its system  
upgrade. It explained that this had led to advisors being unable  to identify him when he 
called. TSB also accepted  Mr Bs complaint that he had tried to raise these issues  eight 
weeks before but they hadnt  been  logged as complaints.  It offered  Mr B £10 for the costs of 
having to visit the branch in person, and £250 for the trouble and upset all these issues had 
caused him. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  and thought that £250  wasnt  enough 
compensation. He considered £300 to be fair and reasonable in view of all the issues Mr B 
had experienced.  He asked TSB to make this payment  to Mr B. 
TSB didnt  agree. It said that the letter had been returned unopened which showed there 
had been no data breach. It said it didnt agree there  was any reason to increase the award 
it had already offered, as it already acknowledged the impact its errors had on the consumer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It can be especially hard in cases like this to quantify in monetary terms the impact a mistake  
by a business can have on a consumer,  especially when the impact is primarily emotional. I 
appreciate that, to TSB,  the difference between its overall offer of £260 and the adjudicators 
award of £300  is small. 
And Ive taken into account  the point it makes  about the letter  being returned  unopened. Ive 
no doubt that had the letter been read the matter  wouldve been dealt with very differently. 
Its not in dispute  that TSB made a number  of mistakes in relation to Mr B  and these 
mistakes, together, caused  him a significant degree  of trouble and upset. My role therefore is 
to decide whether I think, based  on all the circumstances, that an award of £300  plus £10 for 
costs is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN79987822In reaching my conclusions, Ive listened  to the call Mr B had with the initial  investigator who 
set up the complaint. Its clear to me that his post being delivered to the incorrect  address 
caused him considerable distress. I think in that regard, the nature of the letter is relevant  
as it related to potential  collections  activity.  So I can understand  why having this letter  
passed to him by a third party, after it had been sent to the wrong address through no fault of 
his own, caused  Mr B considerable anxiety.
To make matters  worse,  Mr B was unable to change his address over the phone because  
the IT migration issues which TSB had experienced in 2018 had caused his profile,  and his 
personal details,  to be erased or delinked.  I can understand that this, on its own,  wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr B. 
But it also meant that he had to arrange  to attend branch, which took longer  than wouldve 
been the case had he simply been able to call TSB and change his address on the phone.  
Ive no doubt that also caused  Mr B additional  anxiety because  the longer it took for his 
address to be changed on TSBs  system, the longer he ran the risk of post from TSB being 
delivered there  and potentially not being  received. As Ive said above, the nature of the 
correspondence he was expecting from TSB is relevant here, because it was about  a clearly 
stressful and sensitive  issue. I think all this wouldve compounded the stress Mr B was 
experiencing at the time. 
In the end, in order  to be able to put matters right, he was required to attend branch a 
number of times and eventually  the issue was resolved.  But taking this all into account, Im 
persuaded that fair and reasonable compensation  for the issues Mr B experienced is £300, 
plus £10 for the multiple visits in branch. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. TSB Bank  plc must pay £310  within  
28 days of when we tell it Mr B has accepted this final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7998782