K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained about Aviva  Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim she made 
under her home insurance  policy.
background
Ms W made a claim to her insurer, Aviva following damage to her garage roof after a storm 
in March 2019. 
Aviva instructed an agent to visit Ms Ws home and inspect the damage. Aviva decided to 
reject Ms Ws claim as it said the damage  caused by storm winds wasnt  the dominant 
cause. It said Ms Ws garage was in a poor state  and lacking in maintenance. 
Ms W asked  us to look at her complaint.  Our investigator thought  Aviva  had acted  
reasonably. Ms W had bought tarpaulin earlier in March 2019 to carry out a temporary repair 
to the garage  roof due to ingress of water.  He thought Ms Ws actions earlier in the month  
indicated there was pre-existing damage to the garage roof.
Ms W didnt  agree. She said the surveyor instructed by Aviva  incorrectly  reported the 
material, construction and condition of the garage. Shes very concerned  about  the hazard of 
the asbestos roof which has fallen in. Shes been unable to access her garage  since. 
Ms W wants Aviva to meet her claim. So she requested  an ombudsman review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Ms Ws policy with Aviva  says it will provide cover  for a claim for damage caused by a storm. 
But it excludes damage that happens  gradually  due to deterioration because  the property 
hasnt been maintained in good  condition. 
The surveyor who inspected Ms Ws garage  reported the following:
Nature and extent of damage - At time of survey  we found that the corrugated iron 
roof had collapsed  and areas of brick work and rough cast were broken/collapsed  also. 
Upon further inspection the wooden  canopy  at the back had collapsed due to the 
rotten joists.  There is a large  amount of moss  build  up on the corrugated iron roof 
which would get saturated  in rain and become  heavier.
This is not due to a one off storm event  and is due to lack of repairs  as the building  is 
in a poor state.
Ms W said the garage roof is constructed of asbestos concrete. The corrugated  iron roof 
relates to a lean to which Ms W said isnt structurally part of the garage roof. So she 
believes the surveyors report focuses  incorrectly on this. Ms W said the area of roof that 
collapsed didnt have  significant moss. 
Ref: DRN72490382Ms W said the garage roof has a wooden frame  and the asbestos panels were  secured to 
the wooden frame with protective fixings. She shed secured tarpaulin to the wooden  frame 
of the garage  roof underneath the panels in March 2019 before the incident.
I think its clear  from the photos and report that Ms Ws garage  had been  in a deteriorated 
condition for a long time. Theres no dispute  that a storm  happened  which  led to the event 
Ms W claimed for. But for the damage to be an insurable event,  the garage prior to the storm 
would need to be in a well maintained condition. Given the comments by the surveyor,  and the 
fact that Ms W carried out interim repairs due to leaking  water to the roof shortly before the 
incident, I dont  think the storm was the dominant  cause  of the damage to Ms Ws garage roof. 
Ms W said the area of the roof that wasnt covered by tarpaulin wasnt  damaged. I think  this 
suggests that on balance the pre-existing damaged  area of the roof contributed  to its collapse. 
Our investigator said that without a professional opinion to dispute  the loss surveyors 
findings, he thought Aviva had reached its decision reasonably.  
Ms W told us she intended to obtain a contractors opinion in August 2019  to dispute the 
surveyors report. But we havent received this. 
So from what Ive seen  I think Avivas  decision to reject Ms Ws claim was reasonable as I 
think the garage roof was in poor condition and in need of repair.  This means I dont think 
the storm was the main  cause of the damage  and therefore it was reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that the claim  isnt covered  under Ms Ws policy.  I understand Ms Ws concerns 
about the asbestos roof and the need  for specialist handling and removal   but I dont think 
this is something Aviva  is responsible for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7249038