K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that when a bank transfer that Mr B made with Santander UK Plc got 
returned, they got back a lot less money that he had sent.   
 
background
Mr B wanted  to transfer a large sum of money  from his and his wifes joint account (that was 
a sterling one) to an overseas  one. He called Santander and told the person that he spoke to 
that he wasnt used  to doing  this.
Mr B was trying to send  the money to his financial advisor. The person at Santander  that he 
spoke to asked  for the beneficiary  and Mr B gave his and his wifes name  as he thought 
that that would  be the right answer  as it was their money. Mr B gave the account details of 
his financial advisor  however.  
When the money hadnt reached his financial advisor, Mr B contacted Santander to find out 
where his money  had gone. Santander  said that they would investigate and trace  the money. 
They found  that the money had been returned  because the name  on the account  didnt 
match the bank  details. The money  was returned to Mr and Mrs B, less their processing  fee. 
However, due to the change in the exchange rate, they received a lot less than he had sent 
off. 
Mr B complained to Santander, but they didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr B came to us. 
Our adjudicator thought that Santander hadnt done  anything wrong. She thought that the 
questions that Santander has asked were  clear. If Mr B was unsure, he could have asked 
the call handler.  
Mr B disagreed. He thought that Santander should have been clearer  in the questions that 
they asked. They should have asked  for the account  name rather  than the beneficiary name. 
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Santander should have done more  to make sure that 
Mr B understood the questions that he was being asked. In deciding this, I think  its best to 
start with the Terms & Conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs account because this was what  the 
agreed terms of business between  them and Santander were  when Mr and Mrs B operated 
their account. 
The Terms and Conditions of the account say (at 6.31) :
 
d) for an international  transfer of funds or for international standing  orders:
(i) the name  and (as required) address, Routing  Code and/or correct  Bank  Identifier 
Code (BIC) of the bank  of the person you want to pay;
(ii) the bank account number or IBAN (International Bank Account  Number) of the 
person you want to pay.
Ref: DRN73203622It is important  that you give us accurate Payment Details as we wont be responsible for any 
payment made incorrectly when  you have given us the wrong  Payment Details.
Also, under Part 2, Section 2F of the Terms & Conditions it says :
CHAPS, EEA and International Payments Conditions
1.1b) We are not obliged  to receive  or to request credit confirmation from the bank of the 
beneficiary that the payment has been  received.
1.2 b) We are not obliged to receive  or to request credit confirmation  from the bank of the 
beneficiary that the payment has been  received.
1.2 c) The exchange rate to be used  will be determined by our current exchange rate on the 
day we process the payment out of or into your account. We will provide you with information
about the exchange rate and the amount of the foreign currency for that payment after your 
account has been debited or credited with the amount of the transaction.
1.3 Returned payments
a) If a payment is returned to us, it will be credited to your account net of any fees charged 
by third party banks  in returning the payment.
b) If the returned  payment  is in a currency other than sterling, before crediting the returned 
payment into your account, we will convert the returned payment (less any fees referred
to in Condition  1.3 a) of Section 2F into sterling using our current  exchange  rate applicable 
for payments made into your account for the Working Day on which we re-credit your 
account. This may mean that your account  will be re-credited with a different amount than 
was originally debited.
2. Special Conditions applicable to EEA Payments and International Payments
2.1 Information we will give you after we have received your EEA or
International Payment  instruction.
After we receive your payment instruction, we will provide or make  available  to you the 
following information:
(i) confirmation of the date on which we received your instruction;
(ii) a reference enabling you to identify the payment transaction and, where appropriate,  
information relating  to the recipient of the payment;
(iii) the amount of the payment transaction in sterling;
(iv) the amount of any fees for the payment transaction  payable  by you and, where  
applicable, a breakdown  of those fees; and
(v) in respect of an EEA or International payment not in sterling, the exchange rate used in 
converting the payment from sterling  to the applicable currency  and the amount of the 
payment transaction after that currency conversion.
I think that the Terms and Conditions are clear.  It was Mr Bs responsibility to check  that the 
right details were given. I think that he should  have realised that he was being asked for the 
account name of the account  holder, not the ultimate beneficiary of the money. If there  was 
any doubt, then he could have checked. 
Ref: DRN73203623Ive considered whether what Mr B said about the fact that he was not someone who 
regularly transferred money  means  that Santander should have taken more care to check. 
But having  listened to the phone call, I dont think that they should have done.
 
I do think that the questions that Mr B was asked  were clear. When the call handler asked 
for the beneficiary,  there  doesnt appear  to be any hesitation or indication  that Mr B didnt 
understand. 
Mr B did say that he was reading the details  from information given by his financial advisor. 
The call handler confirmed with Mr B that he was passing on the information that had been 
given. I dont know either way if Mr B was given wrong information by his financial advisor, 
but if he was then that wouldnt  be Santanders  fault.    
 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B would have been very surprised that they got back so much  
less than he had sent. But thats  because of the change  in the value of the currencies, which  
is outside of Santanders control. I dont think that this is their fault. 
In those circumstances, I cant see any fair or reasonable reason why Santander should  
refund the difference between the amount that Mr B sent and the amount that Mr and Mrs B 
got back.
I know that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed  by this, but I dont uphold  their complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7320362