K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his Occupational Pension  Scheme (OPS) money purchase benefits into a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  He also complains about the ongoing advice fee he 
says he was charged  despite not receiving  any ongoing advice.  He wants the fees to be 
refunded and compensation for any loss suffered as a result  of the transfer  advice.
background
Mr C had worked for a bank and was a member  of its money purchase OPS for 10 years.  
One of his former colleagues had left previously to set up a practice with SJP and in 2014 
Mr C resigned  from his position at the bank and went to work with his former colleague. 
On 5 September 2014 Mr C signed  a letter  of authority for the OPS trustees to provide 
information to SJP about his pension. Subsequently  on 17 September 2014 Mr C joined his 
ex-colleagues SJP practice as a mortgage adviser.
On the same  day he sent the relevant forms through SJPs  internal system to transfer his 
OPS benefits to new SIPP  which was administered by a third party.  The transfer was 
confirmed by SJP the following day, although both SJP and Mr Cs letters  that accompanied 
the application submission confirmed that Mr C had completed the transfer of his own 
volition and that there was therefore no SJP advice guarantee. Initial  commission  of 4.5% 
and ongoing  fees of 0.25% were  requested.
The transfer for around £40,425 completed  soon afterwards. The cash  wasnt invested 
though as it would seem the purpose of the new plan was to allow a commercial  property to 
be held within that SIPP and also within a SIPP held by Mr Cs ex-wife  who had also 
transferred her OPS  benefits. The property was an office from which Mr C and his former  
colleague would run the practice.
Although Mr C was a self-employed mortgage  adviser, his ex-colleague, who ran the 
practice, agreed to pay him a monthly allowance for the rest of that calendar year.  But any 
fees that were  earned were offset against  the allowance.  Mr C left the practice in 
March 2016.
In November 2018 Mr C complained to SJP about issues that had arisen within  the SIPP  
since he left the practice  and about the pension transfer from 2014. He said the advice to 
transfer his OPS benefits to a SIPP hadnt  been  suitable for his needs  and hed incurred 
additional ongoing charges and fees despite  not having received any ongoing advice. He 
said that the partner (his ex-colleague) had recommended, submitted and managed the 
transfer and so it should refund his fees and any loss hed suffered as a result of his transfer. 
He also complained that his SIPP hadnt  received the rent due from one of the properties 
held within  it. The property was tenanted by another business owned by the SJP partner. 
SJP said that different  types of advisers  that worked for it, (Mr C had been  a mortgage 
broker) were  able to transfer  their pensions and drawdown from them  without following 
normal pension transfer rules. It said Mr C had signed a number of documents to confirm he 
completed the transfer himself and therefore its advice guarantee didnt apply in this case.  It 
also said Mr C had been aware, through a statement  for his previous pension, that a 
reduction would be applied on transfer.
Ref: DRN77756022It also confirmed that the ongoing advice payments had been passed to Mr C while he was 
employed with SJP, but when he left he still had access  to the SJP adviser should he need  
ongoing advice.  So, it said that, while it wouldnt refund the ongoing fees charges for the 
period Mr C remained with SJP, it would refund the ongoing advice charge the practice  
received after he left. It rounded up its offer regarding  the fees to £200  and said it would 
also pay £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr C had suffered, particularly with 
regards to the delay in dealing with his complaint. It also confirmed it would be happy  to 
provide another adviser should Mr C require one or it would be happy to stop any further 
ongoing fees being taken.
However, with regards to the missing rents, SJP confirmed that the business that occupied 
the property was not part of SJP, so it wasnt able to comment  on that matter. It advised 
Mr C to investigate the matter with the SIPP provider and any viable legal avenues. 
But Mr C didnt believe SJP had investigated his complaint as they would  for another client  
so he brought  it to us, where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think  
Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt possible to know what  discussions had 
taken place or whether advice had been given but concluded  that, on balance, Mr C was 
likely to have been committed to the SJP practice  by investing the premises within his SIPP 
 so he thought Mr C would have proceeded even  if hed been advised  not to go ahead  with 
the transfer.
Mr C didnt agree. He made the following points in his response:
He didnt believe the remuneration hed received from the partner was in excess of 
what he should have  got from the transfers.  He cited his wifes transfer which  he said 
would have provided over twice  the agreed  monthly payment  and he thought  this 
questioned the partners integrity.  
If SJP believed it had acted correctly why did it offer £500  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it said hed suffered.
He had complained that no ongoing advice was provided to justify an ongoing  advice 
fee and didnt think wed addressed that issue. 
Mr C said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to 
me to review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know this outcome will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr C, who I can see feels very strongly that hes been  given  unsuitable 
advice from SJP. And I have some  sympathy for his position here  so Ill explain my 
reasons.
In cases like this where  the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory and both parties  have a 
different version  of events, I make my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what 
I consider is most likely to have  happened given the evidence that is available and the wider 
circumstances. Here  Mr C says the SJP partner  advised him to transfer his pension  and that 
all communications  with the SIPP provider were undertaken  by the partner   not Mr C, as 
SJP has suggested.  While on the other hand, SJP says Mr C completed  the transfer of his 
own volition and has signed a number of documents to confirm this was understood. So, it 
says it didnt give any advice and its advice guarantee doesnt apply here.
Ref: DRN77756023So, Ive looked  at the documents  that were filled in and submitted at the time of the pension 
transfer. Ive seen a copy of SJPs guide for partners own life pension transfers to 
retirement account,  which states that SJP partners (and spouses) are able to transfer 
money purchase benefits from other  companies to a pension account  with SJP. And Ive 
seen how the process  was followed  correctly  in this case, so I think SJP considered this to 
be such an own life pension transfe r case and therefore, as the guide also stated  about  the 
partners involved,  
they have not been advised  on the transfer.
They understand the SJP guarantee does not apply.
They understand that by using this process  they will not be able to complain  to SJP if 
at some point in the future they become dissatisfied  with the outcome of their 
decision.  
To start the transfer  process Mr C had to send an internal memo to the business assurance  
part of SJP. This was to get permission to carry out the transfer  without the need for any 
advice to be checked. The memo, dated 17 September 2014, said please  find enclosed  
the relevant forms  to allow  the transfer of my accrued  pension  fund with xxx to an SJP 
SIPP. There was also a declaration which  stated  I can confirm  that I have  decided  to 
transfer my pension entirely  of my own volition, and without receiving any advice from an 
SJP partner. I understand that as a consequence, the decision to transfer is my sole 
responsibility, and that the SJP advice guarantee does not therefore  apply.
The following  day an internal  memo from the business assurance department was sent back 
to Mr C and said, Following on from your memo signed 17/09/14, I enclose the necessary 
completed paperwork required  to facilitate your transfer, and it is attached  to this memo. I 
would be grateful if a copy of this memo could also be retained  and a copy  passed  to Admin 
when submitting the business, since it confirms that the form has been completed on the 
basis that you have  elected to complete the transfer of your own volition, and consequently, 
the SJP advice guarantee does not apply in this instance. 
These memos are quite  clear in stating that no formal  advice was given and one of them  
was signed by Mr C  which would suggest  that he agreed that he wasnt  getting formal  
advice from the practice. I would  have expected Mr C to have questioned that paperwork  if 
he thought he was getting financial advice  around  the transfer  especially as he had a 
background in financial  services  even though  he might not have been an adviser. Im not 
persuaded that any of the paperwork  from the time of the transfer demonstrates that Mr C 
was given advice  to transfer  his pension.
Mr C has pointed to the fact that advice fees were  requested within the application  forms and 
he says that if these fees were paid then advice  must have been  given.  
But while advice fees were deducted for the transfer, SJP has provided  evidence to show 
these were passed to Mr C as part of the allowance the partner paid him  so I dont think  
that necessarily indicated advice was given  either.  Ive looked  carefully  at the statements 
SJP has provided and Im satisfied  that the advice fees for Mr Cs  and his ex-wifes  
transfers were paid to him albeit they were included in the remuneration  package that was 
agreed for the first calendar year in his position.
Mr C says he did receive advice to transfer  his pension   and it proved to be unsuitable. He 
says the transfer  value  involved was below the minimum level allowed and therefore  didnt  
Ref: DRN77756024support the higher charges and costs  he incurred. He says the transfer only proceeded on 
the basis that he would make  lump sum contributions,  but he never did. Mr C has referred to 
an exchange between  the partner and the SIPP provider in which  the partner confirms Mr C 
would make up the shortfall in the transfer value  before  the end of the tax year, to ensure 
the transfer was acceptable. Mr C says this involvement is evidence  that the partner did give 
advice.
Ive considered this email  exchange which seemed to follow an earlier telephone 
conversation between the partner and the SIPP provider. I can understand why Mr C might 
assume this evidence does substantiate his claim of advice being given  especially as there  
was a discrepancy between SJPs initial explanation and the actual version of events. 
But I think, on balance,  that the email chain doesnt really  show  anything more  than the 
partner organising the paperwork  on behalf of the parties wanting to buy the office  and 
stating his understanding that Mr C was going to top up his investment to £50,000. The 
partner introduced himself  as Mr Cs business partner and, as the purpose of the transfer 
was to open a SIPP,  which in conjunction  with similar plans held by Mr Cs ex-wife and the 
partner would allow the building occupied by the practice to be held and to pay rent to the 
SIPP, I would have  expected there to have been discussions between  Mr C and the partner 
as they had a direct  relationship to consider.
Its also possible that the adviser  helped Mr C to obtain the necessary paperwork and send it 
to the SIPP  provider as Mr C had only just joined SJP and might have needed help with that 
kind of administration.
Even though  Im not persuaded that SJP did advise Mr C on his pension transfer, SJP was 
undertaking a regulated activity in arranging the investment for Mr C, even if it was acting on 
a non-advised  basis. So, Ive thought carefully about  any measures SJP should have 
considered to ensure it had reasonable grounds for thinking this was an appropriate 
investment for Mr C. But, on balance I think it probably did enough.  Mr C might not have 
been an expert in investments, but he was a mortgage adviser and he was investing in 
commercial property with his returns dependant on rental income, from a tenant  he knew 
already. So, I think  it was reasonable for SJP to have thought he was in a position to 
appreciate the risks of what he was doing.
He also says he wasnt aware of the implications of not qualifying  for SJPs advice guarantee 
as he wasnt a qualified  adviser at the time. But looking at the partners own life pension  
transfer document it does state  that they understand that by using this process they will not 
be able to complain  to SJP if at some point in the future they become  dissatisfied with the 
outcome of their decision. So, I think Mr C was made aware,  to some extent, of the 
implications of applying  for an own life transfer. 
Mr C has also complained  about  the ongoing fees hed been charged because  he says he 
didnt receive any ongoing  advice as part of paying  those fees. Ive already said that Im 
satisfied Mr C was paid the initial and ongoing  fees generated from the transfer as part of his 
remuneration package.  And I think he had access to ongoing advice in the 18 months that 
he worked within the practice. So I dont think he should have those fees refunded. SJP has 
shown that overall  Mr C received more in payments from the practice  than he earned in fees, 
particularly with respects to commission clawbacks that occurred  after he left.
But SJP has acknowledged that Mr C might not have had access to ongoing advice  after he 
left, or that it might have been  difficult  to conduct such meetings. So its offered to refund  the 
Ref: DRN77756025advice fees paid after he left the practice  and rounded that offer up to £200. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to the matter.  SJP has also offered Mr C £500 for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused by this matter and has said he can simply  stop the ongoing fees 
being deducted at any time by contacting SJP. Alternatively, he can request ongoing advice 
from a different SJP partner. So overall, I think the sum offered is within the range of what Id 
expect to see for distress  and inconvenience  such as this, and Im not going to ask SJP to 
do any more.
 
Ultimately here, there simply  isnt any persuasive evidence to show that the partner  made a 
recommendation and advised Mr C that he should  transfer his OPS  benefits. Ive not seen 
any evidence of any information being  gathered about Mr Cs circumstances or any 
illustration and analysis  of the respective benefits of transferring or not. Mr C has said that 
he trusted the partner  and had known him for some  time  having previously taken advice 
from him. But regardless of their relationship I dont think its reasonable to expect advice 
around the transfer of OPS benefits  not to be to be accompanied by some  level of 
documentary confirmation and analytical support that the advice was in Mr Cs best interest
I note Mr C has also complained about  not receiving the rental  income from the practice into 
the SIPP. I can see SJP has advised  Mr C that the business responsible  for paying the rent 
is a different business  and not part of SJP. So its told Mr C to discuss  the matter with the 
SIPP provider or to take legal advice. I havent seen  any further correspondence about the 
rental income issue, so I dont know if its been resolved, but from the evidence  Ive seen it 
does seem as though  its a matter for Mr Cs ex-partners mortgage business  which  isnt 
part of SJP. So thats not something I can comment on here. 
my final decision
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay £700 in total to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc should pay £700. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7775602