K820x#14complaint
Company J, represented  by Mrs J, is unhappy  that Scottish Equitable Plc cancelled its 
business protection policy and refused its claim.
background
In October  2014, Company J took out business protection cover with Scottish Equitable, 
including life insurance. Mr J was one of the lives assured. And he signed  the application in 
his capacity as a director of the company, after answering questions  about his health. 
As part of the application, Scottish  Equitable asked the following questions about Mr Js 
health, to which he answered no:
Other than previously stated in the last five years  have you had, been  treated for or been 
advised to have follow-up for any of the following:
A lump, growth or cyst of any kind,  or any mole or freckle that has bled,  become  painful, 
changed colour or increased in size?
Any disorder of the digestive system, liver, stomach, pancreas or bowel, including gastric or 
duodenal ulcer, hepatitis, colitis or Crohns disease?
And two pages  down,  it went  on to ask:
Do you have any other information to give us about  any medical investigation, test or 
consultation advice,  counselling, operation, medication or treatment, that youve had or been 
advised to have or are currently having, but havent already told us about?
In 2018, Mr J sadly passed away from pancreatic cancer.  So Mrs J made  a claim on the 
policy. And Scottish Equitable obtained  a copy of Mr Js medical records.  
These show Mr J was treated in hospital for pancreatitis in May 2011 and tests were  carried 
out into this. It was noted that Mr J was generally well, without significant risk factors for liver 
or pancreatic  disease, or symptoms to suggest pancreatic insufficiency. In 2012, Mr J was 
treated in hospital for abdominal pains. In 2013, Mr Js consultant  said his previous attack of 
pancreatitis was caused by a congenital  anomaly. And, in 2017 and 2018, Mr H suffered 
further attacks of pancreatitis.  
 
The tests  Mr J had in 2011 found  a pancreatic cyst and liver lesion. Mr J had surgery and an 
ultrasound biopsy on the liver lesion. His consultants letters say a firm diagnosis wasnt 
made, although it was noted to be suggestive of something less serious. Mr J was reassured 
and put on a watch and wait follow up. And, after having repeat scans  on the liver lesion in 
2012 and 2013, Mr J was told it appeared to have no malignant or worrying features and his 
next scan in 18 months  would be the last.
Mr J also had investigations into his pancreatic cyst, including  an ultrasound  and fine needle 
aspiration. His consultants letters say that while this was suggestive of a pseudocyst,  results  
were inconclusive. And, as the letters dont seem to discuss the cyst again, Scottish 
Equitable got in touch with Mr Js consultant in 2018, who said it was discussed  between 
2011 and 2013, thoughts of it being  cancerous were  ruled out and it was diagnosed as a 
small pseudocyst resulting from pancreatitis.
Ref: DRN74444842In August  2014,  Mr H was referred  to a rheumatology clinic after having an x-ray on a painful  
elbow. He was seen a few months later and this led to a diagnosis of fibrous  dysplasia,  
which he remained under  review for. 
After reviewing this information, Scottish  Equitable said Mr J should  have  disclosed 
information about his pancreatitis, liver lesion  and cyst in answer to the above  questions.  It 
said if it had known this it wouldnt  have offered Company J cover on Mr Js life. It also said 
Mr J signed a declaration  that the statements he made in the application form were true and 
complete. And that its form also says in several  places, Please remember that if you dont 
answer the questions  fully and accurately, we may not pay a claim and the whole policy  may 
be cancelled, not just the benefit under which you are claiming.. 
So Scottish Equitable  turned down the claim, cancelling Company Js policy from when it 
began. And, after its offer to consider replacement cover for the other  life assured on the 
policy wasnt taken up, it refunded the premiums in full. 
Mrs J complained to Scottish  Equitable, saying she dealt with Mr Js medical information and 
appointments, he wasnt really involved,  and letters were only sent to their GP. She also said 
Mr Js first pancreatic  attack was a single one, caused by lifestyle factors, and he was 
discharged after the second with no concerns. And that when  Mr J completed the form he 
hadnt been to hospital for this for two years,  two attacks doesnt mean he had a disorder 
and that he wasnt  told he had pancreatitis until years later.   
In relation to the pancreatic cyst, Mrs J said Mr J only became aware of this in 2018. And 
that while tests were being done  into the liver lesion, they were  reassured it was probably  
nothing. She said Mr J was discharged for the lesion in 2012/2013,  so they didnt think he 
needed to disclose it. And that in 2018 it was biopsied and found to be benign. Mrs J also 
said another insurer paid out on a similar claim, after saying  that while Mr J had health 
issues he should have  disclosed, these wouldnt have changed the cover it offered. 
In response, Scottish Equitables decision was unchanged. It added that even if Mr J didnt 
appreciate his liver lesion  was a lump or growth and a disorder of the liver, and that episodes 
of pancreatitis is a disorder, he still had investigations and treatment for pancreatic attacks in 
the last five years that he should  have  disclosed.   
Mrs J brought the complaint to our service saying Mr Js liver lesion was described as scar 
tissue with no malignant features.  And that while this was under review,  there were no 
concerns. She also said theres no indication Mr J was clearly  told about  his pancreatic cyst, 
as the focus was on his lesion. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. She said Mr J 
answered Scottish Equitables question about medical investigations and tests incorrectly,  
acting carelessly. And that its evidenced it would  have  postponed Company Js application 
with a view to declining cover if it had known. So she thought  it had acted fairly. 
Mrs J doesnt agree, she says our investigator  said Scottish Equitable  would have 
postponed cover while it told her it wouldnt have offered cover at all. And she doesnt 
understand why it wouldnt  have offered cover  after postponing, when the investigations 
didnt find anything concerning. 
Ref: DRN74444843So the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. I contacted  Mrs J and Scottish 
Equitable to say that as Company J took out the policy, and not Mr J personally,  I think the 
relevant law here is the Marine Insurance Act 1906, rather  than the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosures & Representations) Act 2012  that our investigator said applied.  
Scottish Equitable  had no comments to make. Mrs J said she understood the complaint  
would be considered on its individual circumstances and a fair and reasonable approach, 
rather than strict law developed in earlier centuries. Our service confirmed we also consider 
the relevant law at the time and their obligations  under  it, and this was the Marine  Insurance 
Act when  the policy was sold. 
Ive now gone  on to make my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be very disappointing for Company J and follows  a very difficult  time, so Ill 
explain my reasons.
The relevant  law is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. And this says a customer has a duty of 
utmost good  faith to disclose to the insurer all material information they knew,  or ought to 
know, that would influence it in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what  terms. 
Failure to do so is known  as non-disclosure. And the Act says the insurer  can cancel  a policy  
from its start date in these  circumstances.  While  Ive taken this into account,  I also have to 
make a decision based on what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
While it isnt clear  that Scottish  Equitable was asking about the last five years when it asked 
Mr J if he had any information to give it about medical investigations,  tests  and treatment 
hed had, been advised to have or was having,  I still think its a clear  enough  question. And 
Mr J answered  no, when the medical evidence shows he had investigations for pancreatitis, 
a pancreatic cyst and liver lesion during the three  years before he took out the policy.  
With the exception  of Mr Js pancreatic  cyst, it isnt in dispute that he knew he had these 
health concerns  and why he was having tests  and investigations into them. And, despite 
what Mrs Js said, I think Mr J also knew about the cyst and investigations  he had into this, 
as his consultants  letters dated 11 October 2011  says they explained  to him the finding of 
the endoscopic ultrasound of what seemed to be a pseudocyst that is getting smaller. 
Given the reassurance  Mr J received following the tests  and investigations he had, 
I appreciate why he might not have been  too concerned about his health. But, nonetheless,  
I think Mr J ought to have known from Scottish Equitables question that it was interested to 
know about any tests  and investigations,  and disclosed them. Especially when he was still 
under follow up for his liver lesion at that point, as his final MRI hadnt yet taken place. 
I also think Scottish Equitable took reasonable steps to inform  Mr J about the importance of 
answering this question correctly, given the warnings about the consequences of providing 
inaccurate information it placed at the top of each page of the application. And it asked Mr J 
to sign a declaration  in his capacity as a director,  confirming  his answers were correct, which 
he did.
Ref: DRN74444844So Ive had to consider  whether the information  Mr J failed to disclose would have influenced 
Scottish Equitables  decision  to provide  Company J with the cover it did. I recognise Mrs Js 
said another insurer has paid their claim,  after considering the same  issues relating to Mr Js 
health, but each insurer is entitled  to decide  what risks they are willing  to cover.  And Im 
satisfied based  on underwriting evidence Scottish Equitable has provided  that while it might 
have postponed offering cover based  on some individual aspects of Mr Js health if they had 
existed alone,  when viewed as a whole it wouldnt have  offered any cover on his life. 
This means  I think  Scottish Equitables acted fairly  by cancelling  Company Js policy  from 
the start and refunding its premiums,  on the basis theres been a non-disclosure. Because of 
this I dont think its necessary for me to consider whether Mr J answered  the other questions 
correctly. 
And Mrs J hasnt  raised concerns about  Scottish Equitables offer to consider  replacement 
cover for the other life assured, which Company J didnt accept. So I havent  considered  this.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Company Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7444484