K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc allowed his ex-wife to transfer funds from their joint 
account to her sole account  despite the account being put into dispute.
background
On 23 August 2018 Mr and Mrs Ds Santander joint account was put into dispute. This 
meant that Santander  would require signatures from both Mr and Mrs D before transactions  
on the account could be authorised. 
On 28 August 2018 a standing order credited Mr and Mrs Ds joint account  for £2,200  from 
Mrs Ds sole account. Mr D said Mrs D then attended a Santander branch to request that this 
was transferred back to her account as she had made an error and hadnt meant for the 
funds to credit their joint account.
On 1 September 2018 this money  was transferred back to Mrs Ds sole account without Mr 
Ds consent or signature. And on 4 September 2019 a further  sum, namely £137.60, credited 
the joint account from Mrs Ds sole account. These funds were  transferred out of the joint 
account without  Mr Ds authorisation the same day after Mrs D attended a different 
Santander branch.  
Mr D complained to Santander  about  Mrs D being  able to transfer money  out of their joint 
account without  his signature or authority. He felt this was against  its own policy and that 
Santander shouldnt  have allowed Mrs D to make a withdrawal without him being present. 
Santander agreed it had made mistakes here. It explained that branch staff hadnt checked 
Mr and Mrs Ds account for alerts before it allowed the transactions  in question to take place. 
It also said these alerts werent clear enough to staff. And it accepted that had branch staff 
checked for account alerts, as they should  have done, this would most likely have notified  
them that the account was in dispute  and prevented  the transfers  in question.  So, Santander 
compensated Mr D £200 for the distress  and inconvenience these errors had caused.  And it 
paid this sum into Mr Ds bank account.
But Mr D wasnt  happy with Santanders response  or the compensation it had offered to 
resolve his complaint. So, he referred this matter  to our service  and told us that he wanted 
the money that Mrs D had withdrawn from their joint account refunding  to him. Our 
adjudicator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr D, they thought Santander 
had put things right fairly and didnt need to do anything more  here.  But Mr D didnt agree  
with our adjudicators  view. So, he asked  for his case to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything  that Mr D 
and Santander  have said, Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly 
the same  reasons. I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my conclusions  so Ill explain 
why I wont be asking  Santander to do anything else.
Santander has already accepted it was responsible for what  happened.  Because Mrs and 
Mrs Ds joint account had been put into dispute, Santanders policy  required that they both 
Ref: DRN76687072sign in order to authorise transactions on this account. Here, Santander didnt follow  that 
policy as it allowed Mrs D to transfer  money  out of this account on two separate  occasions  
without also obtaining  Mr Ds authority. And its on this basis that Santander has conceded 
the errors  it made.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Santander to 
acknowledge what happened with an award  of compensation.  But,  its already compensated 
Mr D with £200 for the impact these mistakes  had. Its clear Mr D doesnt think this 
adequately reflects  his inconvenience  and experience. 
The issue  here is whether  Santander  acted fairly and reasonably  in offering to put things 
right. In thinking  about this, Ive considered  things  from both sides.  I realise that it must  have 
been frustrating  and concerning that Santander permitted Mrs D to withdraw money  from the 
joint account without  Mr Ds authority. And Im satisfied that an award of compensation is 
warranted here. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell Santander to compensate Mr D 
with the full amount that Mrs D withdrew  as hes asked. Ill explain why.
On 21 August 2018 the balance of Mr and Mrs Ds joint account  stood at zero.  And on 28 
August 2018 the account was credited  with £2,200  from Mrs Ds sole account. This was a 
regular payment which had been  crediting  the joint account at the end of each  month. On 4 
September 2018 I can see that a further  credit was received  in the sum of £137.60  again 
from Mrs Ds sole account. It appears  that this was a child benefit payment. 
On 1 and 4 September both payments that Mrs D had credited the joint account with were 
transferred back to her. And after the money was transferred back to Mrs Ds sole account 
the balance of their joint account was, again,  zero.  So, but for the credits that Mrs D made,  
the amount of money held in the joint account  wouldve been unchanged.  
From the evidence Ive seen Im persuaded that the funds that credited the joint account  
came from Mrs Ds sole account.  I understand that Mr D has confirmed  to our service that 
the funds Mrs D withdrew belonged to her. So the money she took was not joint account 
money that Mr and Mrs D both had a claim to. 
I note that there were  no charges  or fees incurred. What happened  caused no detriment to 
the joint account. I havent seen  any evidence to show  that Mr D lost out financially as a 
result of what happened here. So, it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to tell Santander to 
refund the money that Mrs D withdrew  as Mr D has asked.
Mr D has told our service  that Mrs D left him in debt in relation to other bills that were 
normally paid out of the joint account, as well as large withdrawals being made  leading  up to 
the account being put in dispute.  But this was prior to the joint account was put in dispute.  
So it was before both Mr and Mrs D had to authorise  transactions from the account. It follows 
that I cant hold Santander responsible for any transactions  that were  made  without joint 
authority prior to the account being put into dispute.  
From the evidence Ive seen, I think that Santander acted correctly in accepting 
responsibility. It didnt delay or protract matters when it tried to put things  right here. I can 
see it sent its final response to this complaint  on 11 September 2018  in which  it apologised 
for what happened and explained  how these errors  had taken place. 
I appreciate that Mr D feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But for the reasons Ive already given I think  
Ref: DRN76687073whats been offered  recognises the impact  that Santanders mistakes had on Mr D. I think 
Santander has acted  fairly  and reasonably  in putting  right what happened  and I dont  think  it 
would be fair to ask it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
 
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7668707