K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan taken out in 2004. The plan 
included payment protection insurance (PPI), life cover and critical illness  cover. 
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the plan.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs K and Halifax a provisional decision saying that I didnt think  the plan was 
mis-sold but that Halifax  should refund any extra Mr and Mrs K paid for having level instead 
of decreasing life and critical illness cover.  I said Id consider anything  else Mr and Mrs K 
and Halifax wanted  to give me by 14 March 2019  but if they replied sooner I could issue my 
decision sooner.  Mr and Mrs K did reply sooner with more information. Halifax replied and 
didnt have anything  else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Halifax recommended  the plan to Mr and Mrs K so it had to do more and check  the plan was 
right for them. Ive assessed  the complaint on that basis.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time to show how Halifax presented the plan to Mr and Mrs K at 
the meeting. But from what we know  of how Halifax normally  sold plans like Mr and Mrs Ks, 
Halifax would normally give a choice about taking the plan (and the different covers within it) 
and only set up cover the customer had agreed to.
Mr and Mrs K say this didnt happen  in their case. Theyve said they wouldnt have agreed to 
the cover  because of the life and critical illness cover they already had in place. On the 
questionnaire they sent us they told us they never realised they were taking PPI insurance 
out and they thought it was just the mortgage  they were signing for. Theyve also told us they 
were told they had to take the insurance  or they couldnt get the mortgage.
But apart from Mr and Mrs Ks recollections, I havent anything else that makes me think  
Halifax set up the cover without telling Mr and Mrs K or without getting their permission. Or 
anything else that makes me think Halifax most  likely told Mr and Mrs K they had to take the 
cover and didnt give them  a choice like I think Halifax normally  wouldve. Having considered 
all this carefully, on balance what I have isnt enough to make me think  Halifax started  the 
cover without Mr and Mrs Ks agreement or without giving them  a choice.
The plans life and critical illness  cover was on both Mr and Mrs K, payable as a lump sum to 
repay the borrowing if either Mr or Mrs K died or suffered critical illness. Mr and Mrs K each 
already had life cover  plans that also paid out part on terminal  illness. But these plans were 
due to end many years before the mortgage. And its unlikely  they could be extended.  So I 
think Mr and Mrs K still had a need  for cover that would protect the mortgage for its whole 
term. Also I dont  think having both sets of cover in place made Mr and Mrs K over-insured, 
given the young dependents they had at the time.  In saying this Ive also taken into account 
Ref: DRN79647332what Mr and Mrs K have  said about  Mr K having  a substantial work  policy.  But on the other 
hand his existing life and terminal  illness plan offered a lot less cover than Mrs Ks. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks existing cover made it wrong  for 
Halifax to recommend Mr and Mrs K take life and critical  illness cover for the mortgage.
The life and critical  illness cover  Halifax recommended was set up on a level basis.  But the 
mortgage was on a repayment basis - so the loan would reduce over time.  So Mr and Mrs K 
shouldve been  sold cover on a reducing  basis rather  than a level basis.  And I think  Halifax 
should refund to Mr and Mrs K any difference between what they paid for the level cover and 
what they would have paid if theyd taken  out decreasing cover instead.
The PPI in the plan was cover for the mortgage repayments in case Mr K suffered disability 
or involuntary unemployment. From what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances, he wasnt 
affected by the exclusions  to or limits on the cover  so he couldve claimed  the benefit if the 
circumstances arose.  And Mr and Mrs K seem to have had a need  for the cover.  It was 
protection for their mortgage - a long term liability secured on their home.  By helping with the 
mortgage costs, the benefit would help protect Mr and Mrs Ks savings at what could be a 
difficult time if Mr K suffered redundancy or was too sick to work.
If Mr K was too sick to work, his employer  planned  to continue his pay for as long as he was 
off. And Mr Ks employer  wouldnt have  wanted to make him redundant either. But I think  it 
was still possible for Mr K to suffer a loss of income due to redundancy in a downturn or if 
things went wrong  past business success doesnt  guarantee success  in future. Halifax 
couldnt have  been sure what  would  happen in future with the business employing  Mr K. So I 
dont think it was wrong for Halifax to recommend Mr K take unemployment cover.
It is uncommon for work  sick pay entitlement to be unlimited. And, from what  Ive seen, the 
unlimited guarantee  from Mr Ks employer wasnt backed by insurance. Also,  whether  for 
unemployment or sickness, the PPI benefit would  be paid out on top of the benefits Mr K 
received from his work. And the PPI benefit  payments could last for up to two years. Taking 
all this into account, on balance I dont think it was unreasonable  for Halifax to recommend 
the PPI accident  and sickness cover  to Mr K, given the additional security it could give him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about the cover wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr and Mrs K agreed  to the cover after 
being given a choice about  it. So it looks to me like they wanted cover  like this. And bearing 
in mind all Ive said above, it seems like the cover would have been  useful  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  Taking  everything into account,  I dont think better 
information about the cover would have put Mr and Mrs K off taking it.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ks points, including what theyve  said about still having life 
cover, being  well insured and having taken life cover that will last for a great many years  to 
come. But my decision is based on Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time that Halifax  
gave the advice. And Ive explained  above  the findings Ive made on those circumstances. In 
that light, and for the reasons Ive already given, these points dont change  my decision.
What Ive said above means I think the plan should  have  been set up on a decreasing  and 
not a level basis,  but apart from that I dont  think the plan was mis-sold. So Halifax  doesnt 
need to refund everything Mr and Mrs K paid for the plan or for the PPI within it. But, for the 
PPI commission, Halifax has already made an offer to give Mr and Mrs K back some  of the 
Ref: DRN79647333cost of the PPI. I dont  think Halifax needs to do anything more  for the PPI. Halifax  will make  
arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs K this now Ive issued my final decision.
what the business needs  to do for the life and critical illness cover
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs K any difference between  what they paid for the life 
and critical illness cover and what they wouldve paid if that cover had been set up instead 
on a decreasing basis to match their mortgage.  Halifax should also pay Mr and Mrs K simple 
interest at 8%* per year on each payment from when  they paid it until when they get it back.
*Halifax has to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid for life and critical 
illness cover  on a level instead of decreasing basis and pay Mr and Mrs K interest  on this 
difference as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7964733