K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D as executors of the estate of Mr R have complained that Society  of Lloyds 
(SOL) has unfairly declined a claim under an unoccupied residential property policy.
background
After Mr R died,  Mr and Mrs D took out an unoccupied residential property policy for his 
former home.  There is a condition in the policy that from 1 November to 31 March each year 
the central heating  has to be set to operate continuously at not less than 12 degrees Celsius.
In March 2018 they made a claim to SOL after a burst water pipe caused  a lot of damage to 
the property. 
SOL appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster didnt think 
Mr and Mrs D had complied with the condition in the policy  about heating  the property. So 
SOL declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs D carried out the repair work  themselves. They  would like SOL to reimburse 
those costs and meet the additional  cost of maintaining the house  until they find a buyer.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought SOL should  pay Mr and Mrs D 
£200 compensation and their repair costs subject  to the terms and conditions  of the policy  
and supporting evidence. He also thought SOL should pay interest  on the repair  costs  from 
the date of the claim to date of settlement. In reaching that view our adjudicator relied  upon  a 
letter from SOL accepting the claim.  SOL said the letter was only a draft and hadnt  actually 
been sent to Mr and Mrs D. As SOL didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D took out the policy in February 2018. The policy  is designed for executors of 
unoccupied properties. It contains  the following condition:
You must comply with one of the following, during the period 1st November to 31st March 
each year:
i) if the entire main structure  at the premises has the benefit of gas or oil fired central heating 
then this must be set to operate continuously (not timed) for 24 hours  each day at not less 
than 12 degrees Celsius  or 54 degrees Fahrenheit
or
ii) all water supplied  in the main  structure at the premises  are to be turned off at the mains  
stopcock and the water system drained of all water.
If you fail to comply with this duty then this insurance will not provide cover for loss or 
damage under insured event 3 "Escape of water from any fixed appliance, pipe or tank"  and 
additional cover" Trace and access".
SOLs loss adjuster said the thermostat  was set to 15 degrees Celsius  at the time of his visit 
in April 2018. But of course that doesnt  show what it had been  at the time of the loss. He 
also said he was satisfied  the heating had been kept on. This is what Id expect 
Mr and Mrs D to have done  since a buyer had been  found for the property.  So it would make 
Ref: DRN71227792sense for them  to take all reasonable steps  to protect the property from damage in order  that 
the sale might complete  as expected in May 2018.  Also there wouldnt be much point in 
them taking out the unoccupied property policy for such a short  time if they didnt intend to 
comply fully with its terms.
SOL relied on utility  bills supplied by Mr and Mrs D to decline the claim.  I agree that the utility 
bill for the same period from January to April in 2018  was much less (£72.36) than that in 
2017 (£327.29). But I dont think that necessarily shows that Mr and Mrs D hadnt complied 
with the heating condition.
For a start cover started on 24 February  2018,  so in order to comply with the condition, the 
heating had to be set to come  on from then until 10 March when the loss was discovered,  
thats about two weeks.  During that period the heating  wouldnt be on continuously  as the 
role of the thermostat is to maintain  the temperature and so when this drops below the set 
temperature, the heating will automatically  come on and when the desired temperature  has 
been reached, the heating  will go off again. Also no hot water  would have  been  used.
SOL implied that Mr and Mrs D hadnt  let the loss adjuster visit the property immediately 
after the loss in order that they might turn the heating back  on and increase the gas 
consumption. But I note from the loss adjuster that Mr D was going into hospital for an 
operation on 23 March 2018  and wanted  to wait until he was fit to drive after that. 
SOL also thought Mr and Mrs D would  have turned the heating  up immediately after the loss 
in order to dry the property out and that would have  accounted for some of the gas 
consumption. But Im not convinced of that. Mr D has mentioned that the boiler needed 
repairs after the leak in March. Id also expect them to want to check that it and the electrics  
were working properly before they switched  the heating back  on, especially since  they live 
some distance from the property.
Lastly in the same period the previous year the property had been occupied by an elderly 
and infirm gentleman and his carer.  Im prepared to accept  that the house would probably 
have been kept much warmer during  that time.
This is a finely balanced case. But overall I dont  think SOL has done  enough  to show that 
Mr and Mrs D didnt comply with the condition to keep the heating on continuously. So Im 
led to conclude that SOLs decision to decline their claim on the ground of breach of this 
condition was unfair. To put things right I think they should meet Mr and Mrs Ds repair  costs  
subject to receiving satisfactory evidence  of them.
I dont think its SOLs fault that the sale fell through. The costs of maintaining  the property 
until its sold arent covered by the policy. So I see no reason to require SOL to pay them.  
Having their claim unfairly declined undoubtedly  caused some trouble and upset to Mr and 
Mrs D. I think its appropriate that SOL should  pay them £200 compensation for this.
Ref: DRN71227793my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Society  of Lloyds  to:
pay Mr and Mrs D £200  compensation for trouble and upset;
settle Mr and Mrs Ds claim  subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy;
if this results in payments being made to Mr and Mrs D in reimbursement of costs they 
have already incurred, pay interest* calculated  from the date Mr and Mrs D made the 
payment(s).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Society  of Lloyds 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs D, it should 
tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7122779