K821x#15complaint
Miss Fs complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited refused to pay her motor 
insurance claim after her ex-partner took her car without her consent. 
background
Miss F said shed recently broken  up with her partner (who Ill call Mr G) with whom  there  
was a history of domestic violence. He was a named driver on her policy. When  Miss F 
noticed Mr G had taken  her car she reported him to the police. Mr G damaged  Miss Fs car 
after crashing into some other vehicles.
Mr G was charged with aggravated vehicle taking and Miss F gave evidence to the police to 
support this. Miss F also took out an injunction to prevent  Mr G from going near her.
Skyfire paid for the damage to the other vehicles but refused to pay Miss Fs claim for the 
damage to her car because it said Mr G had taken the car without her consent. It said the 
policy didnt cover damage or loss where  a member of her (or anyone with permission to 
drive the cars) family or household had taken it without her permission.
Miss F said Mr G didnt  live at the house and only stayed there two or three  nights a week. 
She said theyd broken  up as a couple  a couple  of days before and hed refused to leave.  
Skyfire said Miss F told it Mr G had lived with her for the two weeks  before he took her car. 
And shed  referred  to him as her partner. It also said his driving licence  showed  his address 
was the same as Miss Fs. Skyfire asked  Miss F to provide a different address for Mr G. She 
did this but the letter  Skyfire sent to that address was returned as addressee gone away. 
Skyfire said the only reason  it wouldnt  pay the claim is because  Mr G had taken the car 
without Miss Fs consent. 
Miss F told us shed been declared bankrupt as she couldnt afford to get her car out of the 
impound. She said the finance company had recovered the car. Miss F said shed only had 
to declare herself bankrupt  because Skyfire hadnt  paid her claim. The official  receiver 
provided us with information  to show what other  debts were  included in Miss Fs bankruptcy.  
Our investigator contacted the finance company to find out what  damage had been  caused 
to the car in the accident. The finance  company said it had recovered the car but didnt 
consider it drivable. It said it had sold the car for £2,269 and reduced the amount Miss F 
owed by that amount. This left Miss F owing £9,288.17 on the finance agreement.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 December  2018.  In that decision I 
said: 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Fs policy say loss or damage  to her car isnt covered if its 
caused by a member  of the family  or household  of someone whos allowed to drive  the car 
taking the car without  your permission.
Skyfire said this means a named driver isnt covered if they take the car without her 
permission but I dont think it does. The policy says a member of the family or household of 
someone allowed  to drive the car. It doesnt say a member of or family or someone allowed 
to drive the car.
Ref: DRN75729972To be excluded Mr G would need to be considered a member of Miss Fs family or 
household, or a member of someone  whos allowed to drive the cars family or household. I 
think it would  be contradictory to both say Mr G was someone allowed to drive  the car and 
also that hed taken the car without permission.  
So Ive then considered whether Mr G should  be considered  a member of Miss Fs family or 
household. I appreciate he might  have stayed with Miss F for a couple of weeks before 
taking her car and there doesnt  seem to be any doubt that theyd previously been in a 
relationship. But I think the fair and reasonable approach is to consider whether  he was a 
member of her family or household at the point he took her car.
Its clear from the information  Miss Fs provided that her relationship with Mr G has a history 
of domestic violence.  This is supported by the injunction  she took out following them  splitting 
up. Miss Fs said Mr G stayed at the house  sometimes to help her look after the children but 
had never  moved  in full-time. Given the history  of their relationship Im persuaded by what 
Miss Fs said and in any event she said theyd  broken up a couple of days  before. So Im 
satisfied he wasnt a member of the household.
I also dont think Mr G should be considered a member of Miss Fs family at the time he took 
her car without consent. She said she broke up with him a couple of days before he took her 
car. So while he may still have been in the house  as hed refused to leave I dont think they 
were a family. Given that Miss F supported  charges against him for taking her car and also 
took out an injunction Im satisfied he wasnt a member of her family when he took the car. 
While Miss F might have referred  to him as her partner I can understand why she might  not 
have realised the importance of being  specific her relationship status when  notifying  Skyfire 
about her claim.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Skyfire to rely on the exclusion it has to refuse  to pay 
Miss Fs claim. And as Skyfire said that was the only reason for turning down Miss Fs claim 
I think it should pay it.
It seems  the finance company considered the car a total loss as it wasnt  drivable. For that 
reason I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Skyfire to pay Miss Fs claim for her car 
on a total loss basis in line with any limits  or excesses on her policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Fs policy say the most Skyfire will pay in the event of a 
total loss is the market  value. This is the value of Miss Fs car immediately before the 
accident. To decide  on a fair and reasonable amount for Skyfire to pay for Miss Fs car Ive 
checked Cazana, CAPs guide and Glasss guide.  These are trade  guides  that provide  
valuations for cars based on nationwide  research of sales prices. Neither Miss F nor Skyfire 
have been able to provide the cars  mileage but I can see from Cazana that at Miss Fs last 
MOT in November 2017 her car had done 47,091 miles. For that reason I think  it would be 
fair to base the valuation on a mileage of 50,000  miles  in February  2018.
Cazana has given  a valuation of £8,200, CAP £6,650  and Glasss  £7,770.  As theres  such  a 
large difference between CAP and the other  two it would  seem fair to discount  that valuation  
as I find the two valuations that are similar  more persuasive. Ive considered whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and think it would be fair for Skyfire  to use £7,985  as the 
pre-accident market value  of Miss Fs car as this is a midpoint of the other two. 
As the finance  company  has recovered £2,269 towards the amount Miss F owes, Skyfire  can 
deduct that amount meaning  it needs  to pay £5,716, minus any excess. Skyfire should add 
Ref: DRN75729973interest to the settlement  amount at a rate of 8% simple from the date of the accident to the 
date it makes payment.  
Miss F said shes  been declared bankrupt due to Skyfire refusing to pay her claim.  She said 
she couldnt afford to pay the release fee or pay for the cars repairs.  But I can see there  are 
a number of other debts  that have been included in Miss Fs bankruptcy. I dont have enough  
to conclude Skyfire  refusing  to pay her claim led to Miss F declaring herself bankrupt.  So Im 
not going to make any further award  for that. 
Both Skyfire  and the Official Receiver accepted my provisional decision.  Miss F didnt add 
any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Skyfire and the Official Receiver accepted  my provisional decision and Miss F didnt 
add any further  comments, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Skyfire Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay the Official  Receiver to distribute to Miss Fs creditors  as it sees  fit:
£5,716 minus any excess; and 
interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of the accident to the date it makes  
payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Official 
Receiver as Miss Fs trustee in bankruptcy  to accept or reject my decision before 
6 March 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Skyfire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss F and the Official Receiver how much its taken off. It should  also give   
Miss F and the Official Receiver a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7572997