K821x#15complaint
Mr F says CashEuroNet UK LLC (Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 payday loans and a flexible credit  loan Quick  Quid  provided  to 
Mr F between April 2012 and 27 January 2014. Mr Fs lending  history is as follows:
Loan Number Amount  borrowed Date lent
Loan 1 £100.00 19/04/2012
Loan 2 £150.00 27/05/2012
Loan 2a £50.00 17/06/2012
Loan 2b £50.00 07/07/2012
Loan 3 £100.00 23/10/2012
Loan 3a £200.00 27/10/2012
Loan 3b £200.00 29/11/2012
Loan 4 £250.00 25/05/2013
Loan 4a £250.00 30/05/2013
Loan 4b £200.00 09/06/2013
Loan 5 £250.00 23/07/2013
Loan 5a £300.00 27/07/2013
Loan 5b £200.00 03/08/2013
Loan 6  Flexible credit loan Credit Limit  up to £750 27/01/2014
Note: a letter after the loan number denotes additional borrowing on an existing loan.
Mr F has withdrawn his complaint about  loans that were lent more than six years  before he 
complained, so I havent considered loans  1 to 2a in this decision. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I found the complaint about loan 2b to have been 
made within the time limits. In the absence of any further argument from Quick  Quid on this 
matter, Im satisfied this remains the case and I dont need its consent to consider the 
complaint about  this loan.
Quick Quid has offered to refund the interest  and charges Mr F paid on loans 4 to 4b, with 
8% simple  interest added. Mr F didnt accept  this offer and brought  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2019 that explained  that I was intending  to uphold 
this complaint in part and ask Quick Quid to refund the fees and charges Mr F paid for loans 
3 to 6. Ive included an extract of my provisional  decision  which explains my reasoning  and it 
forms part of this decision. 
Mr F responded and said that he agreed  with my provisional decision. Quick Quid  responded 
and gave a number of reasons why it didnt agree  with my provisional decision,  including:
There was nothing  in the checks that suggested  Mr F was not able to afford to repay 
the loans.
Mr F didnt tell Quick Quid that he was suffering  personal or financial detriment  and 
had he done so, it wouldve agreed  a feasible repayment plan with him.
Ref: DRN77020752Loan 6 was a Flex Credit loan which was designed to provide Mr F with the option  to 
draw down  credit up to his approved limit and repay it over a maximum  of 10 months. 
Quick Quid says it carried out checks which included information from Mr F, credit 
score information from credit reference agencies plus other third party requests. 
Quick Quid has asked  I reconsider  my decision to uphold  this loan as Mr F repaid it 
without incident,  so there was nothing concerning that wouldve made it aware the 
product was unsustainable for Mr F.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive taken this into consideration when looking at this 
complaint.
Quick Quid says that there was nothing in its checks that suggested Mr F was unable to 
afford loans  3 onwards. However, one of the reasons why I upheld  the complaint from loan 3 
onwards was because I didnt  think that Quick Quids checks were  sufficient to be 
proportionate. Had it carried out better, proportionate, checks  it wouldve  been clear to 
Quick Quid that they were  unaffordable. So this point doesnt change  my thoughts on the 
matter.
Quick Quid says that Mr F didnt make  it aware  of his financial difficulties at the time. And I 
appreciate that had he done so, its unlikely Quick  Quid wouldve continued lending to Mr F 
in the way that it did. However, this doesnt change the fact that Quick  Quid was required by 
the regulator at the time  the Office for Fair Trading - to lend responsibly and this required it 
to check whether any loans it issued could be sustainably repaid by the borrower over the 
term of the loan. Therefore even if Mr F didnt make Quick Quid aware of his financial 
difficulties at the time, it was still required to act responsibly and I dont think  it did for the 
reasons Ive given  in my provisional decision. So this point doesnt change  my thoughts on 
the complaint  either.
Finally, Quick Quid has asked that the final loan is not upheld  because it was a different 
product that worked in a different way. Id like to reassure Quick  Quid that I took into 
consideration that loan 6 was a flexible credit loan rather than a pay day loan. However,  
Quick Quid agreed loan 6 - that had a credit limit of £750 - only 4 days  after Mr F repaid the 
previous loan, which also happened  to be for £750  (after it had been topped up twice).  
Therefore, loan 6 essentially  constituted a re-lending of Mr Fs fifth loan, but over a longer 
term with a more flexible repayment  schedule.  This meant that he was in effect  repaying  the 
same amount as loan 5 over a period  of 16 months  (going  on the basis  that he drew  down 
his full credit  limit immediately, which is what he essentially did do, and repaid it over 10 
months). 
Ref: DRN77020753But these  products were  not designed  to be used to support borrowing over long periods of 
time, and Mr F had already extended his final repayment on loan 5b twice,  which  clearly  
indicated that he was unable to make  the repayments as they fell due. And by that point 
Mr F been borrowing  from Quick Quid for over 21 months without barely a gap between  
repaying loans  and borrowing further amounts. Therefore, I think  Quick  Quid shouldve  
realised that lending loan 6 was not sustainable for Mr F, even if it was a flexible credit  loan 
rather than a pay day loan. And in doing so, Quick Quid had in effect  locked Mr F into 
repaying high cost credit over an even longer period of time. 
As such,  Quick Quid hasnt said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect.  I therefore remain  of the view that 
Quick Quid should  not have lent loans  3 onwards to Mr F. 
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
To put matters right Quick Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  3 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 3a from Mr Fs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 3b onwards  means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan 3b onwards should be removed  from Mr Fs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid  must give 
Mr F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and require CashEuroNet UK LLC to do what I have set out above to put matters 
right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77020754extract of my provisional decision
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general  approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website. And Ive taken this into consideration when looking at this complaint.
Firstly, I note that the adjudicator didnt assess whether  loan 2b had been responsibly  lent. But loan 
2b was agreed  on 7 July 2012 and Mr F complained to Quick Quid  on 18 June 2018 so it was agreed 
within six years of Mr Fs complaint. Quick Quid says that because loan 2b was a top-up on an 
existing loan (which was agreed more than six years before the complaint was made), our service  
cant consider  the top-up  as well. If an event happened more than six years before it was complained 
about, this doesnt automatically mean this service cannot consider it. However,  without exploring this 
point further,  I am of the view that as the top-up to this loan happened within six years of Mr F 
complaining, it is within the six-year part of the time limit rule and so can be considered.
This is because ultimately,  a top-up  on an existing loan is still a separate  decision made  by Quick 
Quid to lend Mr F more money on a short term, high cost basis. Im satisfied  that loan 2b was lent 
within six years of Mr Fs complaint and therefore is a lending decision that can be, and shouldve 
been, considered by our service.
Quick Quid  needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr F could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish whether 
Mr F could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Office  of Fair Tradings Irresponsible lending Guide defines sustainable as being  credit 
that can be repaid by the borrower: 
without  undue difficulties and in particular  without  incurring or increasing problem  indebtedness, 
over the term of the loan, or within  a reasonable period of time for open-ended credit agreements;
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to sell assets.
Ref: DRN77020755And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to do so without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.  And having done so, I think  that had Quick  Quid carried  out 
proportionate checks on loan 2b, it wouldve  been satisfied  that Mr F could afford to repay the £50 
top-up in addition to the existing loan that was outstanding at the time it was agreed. I say this 
because had Quick Quid asked Mr F to declare  his regular financial commitments,  as well as his 
income, I think its likely to have shown that he had sufficient disposable  income to afford  the 
additional lending at the time.
But by loan 3, its clear  that Mr F was struggling  financially. For example he had to refinance his 
second loan on two occasions  and Mr F repaid loan 2 on the same day that loan 3 was agreed  
suggesting that Mr F was having to borrow again as he didnt have sufficient income to meet  all of his 
outgoings  all of which shouldve prompted Quick Quid to carry  out more thorough checks.  And had 
Quick Quid  carried out a proportionate check at that point, I think it would  most likely have shown  that 
Mr F:
Had a monthly income of around £1,060, which was lower than what  hed originally  declared. And 
Mr F had regular financial commitments of around £550  a month  leaving him with a disposable  
income of around  £510.
Had short  term borrowing commitments with other lenders of around £660 and £350 when Quick 
Quid lent him loans 2b and 3 respectively, which  in turn shouldve made them  aware that Mr F 
had insufficient disposable  income  to be able to repay loans  3 and 3a sustainably.
Because of this, I dont think that a responsible lender wouldve agreed  loans 3 and 3a, had 
proportionate checks been carried out. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr F, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3b. I say 
this because:
By loan 3b Mr F had a consistent history  of borrowing short term loans shortly after repaying a 
previous loan;
Mr F had repeatedly increased the amount of borrowing on existing  loans;
As mentioned Mr F had refinanced loan 2 twice indicating that he was struggling to repay  his 
loans when they fell due;
All of which means Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr F was having to 
borrow further  amounts to cover the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and 
that Mr Fs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably. And Mr F wasnt making  any real inroads to 
the amount he owed Quick  Quid. Loan 3b was taken out 7 months after Mr Fs first loan. And the 
agreed loan amount  was for a larger  amount than the first loan. So Mr F had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think  that Mr F lost out because  Quick  Quid continued  to provide lending from loan 3b onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Fs indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Fs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN77020756So Im also intending to uphold the complaint about loans  3b onwards and so Quick Quid  should  put 
things right in respect  of Mr Fs third loan onwards.
putting things  right  what Quick  Quid needs to do
I currently think Quick Quid should:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  3 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they were 
paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  3 and 3a from Mr Fs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 3b onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 3b onwards  should be removed from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Quick Quid  must give 
Mr F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I currently think the complaint should  be partially upheld. And intend to 
require CashEuroNet UK LLC to pay Mr F compensation as set out above,  to put matters right.
I now invite  Mr F and CashEuroNet UK LLC to give me any further information  they want me to 
consider, before I make  my final decision. This must be provided to us by 31 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7702075