K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt been  able to recall funds that were 
transferred in error.
 
background
Mrs A is a customer  of Santander with whom she holds a current account. She had two 
faster payment  mandates set up via online banking. One was set up to transfer funds to her 
account with another  bank, which Ill call B. Mrs A said she would use this faster payment 
mandate to send  money to B each time she was going on holiday. The other  faster payment 
mandate was to an account held by someone  else at a different bank, which  Ill call L.
On 2 August  2018, Mrs A wanted to transfer some money to B. But when Mrs A made this 
payment the funds  were sent to L instead. Mrs A said she realised  this after checking  her 
bank accounts  when she retuned home from her holiday. At this time she also realised that 
on occasions over the past 12 months she had made other transfers  to L, which she had 
intended to make to B. So she contacted Santander  on 6 August 2018  to explain this and to 
ask it to recall the money that had been  transferred in error to L. She told Santander she 
thought these errors had happened because she had been misled by the software used in 
making faster payments  online.
Mrs As request that Santander  retrieve her money shouldve been  registered within  2 days   
namely by 8 August 2018. But Santander didnt do so until 16 August 2018, which meant  
there was a six day delay  in Santander registering the recall for Mrs A.
When Mrs A complained about what had happened Santander told her it hadnt  made  any 
errors in transferring money to L. It said the money had been paid to L because Mrs A had 
selected the wrong payment mandate.  And it stated it said it was her responsibility to check  
she was using the correct payment mandate to transfer money  from her account. It said it 
had done everything possible to get the money recalled. And it told Mrs A it wasnt 
responsible for the money not being returned.  But it accepted that there was a six day delay 
in registering the payment  recall for her. While it said this wouldnt have affected  the 
outcome here, it credited  Mrs As account with £30 compensation to recognised  this delay.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response  Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator looked into this. But, while they empathised with Mrs A, didnt  uphold  her 
complaint because they didnt think this money  had been transferred to the wrong account 
because of something Santander had done wrong.  They acknowledged  that there was a six 
day delay in Santander recalling the money once Mrs A had made it aware of what  had 
happened. But they didnt  think this delay wouldve altered the outcome here or was the 
reason why the funds werent recovered by Santander. And they thought  the compensation it 
had offered Mrs A to recognise  this delay was appropriate in the circumstances. Our 
adjudicator also thought  Santander had made reasonable efforts to recover  the missing  
money. But Mrs A disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mrs A feels  very strongly about 
Ref: DRN73689792this complaint. So I know how disappointing  this decision  will be for her. But I dont uphold  
her complaint. Ill explain why. 
The first issue Ive considered is whether Santander  made a mistake when it transferred 
money to L that Mrs A had intended  to transfer  to B. Santander said it didnt  made a mistake 
here but Mrs A believes this error  happened due to a system error and fault with the 
software Santander users to process faster payments  online.  
Where theres  a disagreement about what happened, as there  is here, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on balance  of 
the evidence available. Ive given careful  consideration to what  is being  said here. Santander 
has reviewed its internal records and confirmed that there were  no computer or software 
issues reported on the dates of the transfers Mrs A made. So, I havent seen any evidence  
that a system error or fault led to this money  being  transferred to L. Instead  I think  its more  
likely than not that this error occurred because Mrs A selected the incorrect payment 
mandate, which caused her funds to be transferred to L in error.
Santander must follow its customers requests, unless theres good reason not to. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen Mrs A gave online instructions for payments to L to debit  her account 
on the dates she made  her transfer  requests. So, Im satisfied Mrs A authorised  Santander 
to debit the payments in question from her account.
I acknowledge that Mrs A didnt intend  to make these payments to L and that she wanted to 
transfer funds to B instead. But, while I realise Mrs A made a genuine mistake here, she 
authorised these transactions to L. It was ultimately  her responsibility to check  that she was 
selecting the correct mandate so the money  she was transferring would be sent to the right 
account. Santander couldnt  have  known Mrs A had chosen to transfer money to the wrong 
account until she raised a complaint with it. So, it followed  Mrs As instructions in authorising  
the payment to L. From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Santander processed these 
transfer payments  correctly and in good  faith.  This problem  wasnt  caused by something it 
did wrong. So, I cant fairly conclude that its at fault for these payments not reaching B.
 
Ive gone on to consider whether Santander  made reasonable attempts to recover the 
money once it was aware the money hadnt  reached  the intended recipient. When  payments 
go missing we expect the bank sending the money  to the intended  recipient  to make 
reasonable efforts to recover the funds.
Banks can only attempt  to recall and recover  missing funds on a best endeavours basis,  
which isnt guaranteed to be successful.  Santander told our service it explained to Mrs A 
that it would  attempt to retrieve her money  on that basis. And its provided evidence  of the 
enquiries it made and steps it took to initiate the faster payment reclaim process on her 
behalf. 
I think that once Santander commenced the funds retrieval  process it acted properly and 
proactively. It identified the bank that had received  the payment Mrs A had transferred  
namely L. It asked L to find out who the recipient  of the funds was. And it asked L to contact 
the recipient to recover the funds in question.  The enquiries made and steps  taken are in line 
with how we would expect a bank to act here. So, Im persuaded Santander acted properly 
here.
Santander said the recipient of the money didnt consent to returning  the money to Mrs A. In 
view of this, Santander  told Mrs A she could request information  about the recipient so she 
Ref: DRN73689793could approach them directly. And it explained how she could do so. Afterwards  Santander 
gave Mrs A the details  of the recipient of her transferred money. So, I think  the information 
Santander provided Mrs A was given in genuine  efforts to assist  her. Santander has also 
cancelled Mrs As mandate  to L to prevent another transfer being made in error.  I think this is 
helpful and, again, demonstrates that Santander  has tried to assist Mrs A here.
Im satisfied Santander used its best endeavours and reasonable attempts to trace Mrs As 
missing money. But I recognise there was a six day delay in it acting on Mrs As request to 
recall the transfers  she had made  to L. Im not persuaded though that this delay has affected  
the outcome here. Ill explain why.
Mrs A notified Santander that she had transferred money to the wrong account four days  
after one of the transfers had taken place. But it was also many  months  after other transfers  
had been made to L in error. This isnt a criticism of Mrs A. But the process of retrieving 
funds is time critical to a bank. So, the fact that Santander didnt immediately try to recall the 
money wouldve  been of more significance  to only the August payment that was sent to L in 
error had Mrs A notified it more promptly. It wouldnt have made a difference,  on balance, to 
the older payments that were made  to L in error because many months had passed by the 
time Mrs A realised  what had happened.  It follows that, based on what  Ive seen, Im not 
satisfied that the time lapse in Santander  commencing  the recall  process  is the reason why 
the funds couldnt be recalled.
Santander accepted it shouldve acted  six days earlier.  And its already  credited Mrs As 
account with £30 compensation to recognise that delay. As Im not persuaded this delay has 
affected the overall outcome of Santanders efforts to retrieve Mrs As money I think  this 
award is fair in the circumstances. 
I can understand Mrs As frustration that Santander  hasnt  been able to recover  her money. 
But I cant fairly conclude  that it couldve done  anything more here. Im satisfied its acted 
fairly and reasonable for the reasons outlined. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7368979