K822xcomplaint
Mr T is complaining that Be Wiser  Insurance Services Ltd (Be Wiser) didnt send him 
warning letters in respect to his driving scores when  it was administering  his car insurance 
policy.
background
Mr T took out a car insurance  policy through Be Wiser  a broker  to insure his car. Under 
the terms of the policy Mr T was required to have a telematics device  attached to his car 
which monitored his driving performance. Over the term of the policy Be Wiser sent a 
number of letters by email to Mr T to say that he needed to improve his driving score or hed 
incurred an additional  premium charge of £150.  
In March 2018 Be Wiser  wrote to Mr T to say that, as his driving  score  hadnt improved to 
average, a £150 charge  had been  applied  to his account. And it followed this up by calling 
him to discuss this. Mr T queried this and Be Wiser  said that it had sent a number of warning 
letters. But Mr T said that he hadnt  received any warning letters since January 2018. 
Be Wiser said that it had sent two further  warnings  since then, but Mr T was adamant he 
hadnt received  them.  
Be Wiser then reviewed this further and realised that the recent warning letters had been  
sent to the wrong email address. So it recognised that Mr T hadnt  received any warnings 
since January 2018. Given  this, it paid the £150  charge. But it said that it wouldnt  cover any 
further charges  if Mr T received further charges due to poor driving.
Around two weeks  later Be Wiser wrote  to Mr T saying that his driving scores were currently 
bad and a £250 charge  had been  applied  to the account. Three  weeks after that Be Wiser 
wrote to Mr T again  and said the insurer had instructed it to cancel the policy due to 
continued poor driving. And it said it would do so in seven days. Mr T then contacted 
Be Wiser to cancel  the policy himself.  And a cancellation fee of £75 was charged.
Mr T asked  this service to step in as he held Be Wiser responsible  for what  happened.  He 
said that he should have been given two further warnings before the £150 charge. And he 
says, had Be Wiser done  this, he wouldnt have  received the £250 charge and had to pay 
£75 to cancel  the policy. So he thinks Be Wiser should refund these charges.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2018  saying I thought Be Wiser  had taken fair steps 
to put things right. And I said the following:
Theres no dispute that Mr T didnt  receive two of the warning letters that Be Wiser sent and 
the email advising  it of the £150  charge. Its not clear why the email address changed which  
caused the emails  to be sent to an incorrect email  address. But Be Wiser has accepted 
responsibility for this and covered the charge itself.
Mr T says that he wouldnt have incurred any of these  charges had he received the warning 
letters. But I dont agree. Mr T did receive  three  warning letters advising that his driving 
performance was poor. Mr T has provided  a copy of the telematics data and this shows that, 
despite these  warning letters, there  continue to be a number of excessive speeding events. 
It seems  to me that Mr T has incurred these fines due to poor driving  performance, rather 
than any mistakes Be Wiser made.  And I think its most likely Mr T would have still incurred  
Ref: DRN78038232this charge even  if he had received  the warning letters. I think this is further evidenced  by the 
fact that his driving performance didnt appear  to improve after Be Wiser  said it wouldnt 
cover any further charges  and advised him needed to improve  his driving performance.  
Despite this warning,  a further red alert occurred two weeks after this.
I agree  with the adjudicator that Be Wiser needed  to compensate Mr T for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused in sending the warning letters to the wrong  email  address and 
initially disputing it had done so. But I think it has effectively done so by covering the £150 
charge the insurer  charged due to poor driving performance. And I think thats fair 
compensation for whats happened.
I also dont think Be Wiser can be held responsible  for the policys  cancellation. In its final 
response to Mr T is said:
Moving forward, if another red alert event occurs within 45 days of receiving the previous 
additional premium,  a £250 additional  premium can be applied by the Insurers. It is your 
responsibility to improve  your driving score and we will not cover  any further additional 
premiums. 
So it was Mr Ts responsibility to improve his driving  score and the policy  was cancelled  
because he didnt do so. Im satisfied that Be Wiser gave Mr T sufficient warning in this 
respect and the policy was cancelled because he didnt adhere  to this warning.  So I dont 
think Be Wiser needs to cover any of the charges Mr T subsequently incurred following this.
Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He said there are several parts of the 
background information regarding the case which he thought were relevant that I hadnt 
commented on the. 
He said that his smart application wasnt working even after flagging  this to Be Wiser several 
times both over the phone  and in writing  during his official complaint after he found  out about  
the £150 fine. He says he asked several  times  for the use of his smart application. So he 
said, taking into account that he never received any letters up until the £250 fine, which was 
sent by post rather  than email as he says it should have done, he thinks  its unfair for me to 
assume that his driving wouldn't have improved. 
He says the graphs sent were disclosed only after his freedom of information  request made  
after the policy was cancelled. He says that the £250 fine also didnt include areas of 
improvement. He also says that he was only notified of the £150 fine weeks after it had 
incurred meaning  for a period of time his diving scores were contributing to a £250 fine while 
he was under the impression he hadn't surpassed his second to last warning. 
He also queried  my comments that  the warnings where  due to breaking the speed limit 
which he thinks was untrue. He says that he understands the warnings where  imposed after 
harsh acceleration, harsh braking and fast cornering. So he says that he was driving  within 
legal confines  but he wasn't able to drive  to the black  box rules due to not knowing what  they 
were because the correspondence had been sent to the wrong  email  address and not 
having access to his smart application.   He queried why he would have made  the requests 
he did if he had no interest  in improving his driving scores.  
Finally he also commented  that his data protection could have been broken as he says its 
not possible to tell whether an email is active from a third partys perspective.  So he queried  
how Be Wiser could  have  sourced that the email was inactive. 
Ref: DRN78038233my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ts comments into account but Ive come to the same  conclusion as I did in my 
provisional decision. I dont intend  to repeat everything I said,  but I shall comment  on some 
of the points he raised.
Firstly, as I set out in my provisional decision, Mr T didnt receive the £250 fine until two 
weeks after being  warned to improve his driving  performance. I think  this was sufficient time 
to enable Mr T to improve his driving performance. And I think  he could have prevented this 
fine had he done  so. I still think it was Mr Ts driving  performance that caused the £250 fine 
and the policys  subsequent cancellation rather than any failings by Be Wiser.
Ive taken Mr Ts comments into account that he wasnt given a chance to improve his 
driving performance. But I still think,  for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, that 
its most  likely he would have still received the fines at some  point during the policy.  Hed 
already received three previous warning letters and I havent  seen  enough to show  that his 
driving performance did significantly improve following these to demonstrate that he wouldnt 
have incurred these  fines  and this includes all the factors that are taken into account on 
calculating the scores. Given this, I think Be Wisers offer to pay the £150 fine should  be 
considered as compensation. And I think it was fair compensation  for whats happened.
Finally Mr T has queried how we can be sure that the email  address that the information was 
sent to was inactive.  Be Wiser  has provided  us a copy of the automatic reply that was sent 
back that shows it was an inactive email. So Im satisfied that it was inactive. But, even if it 
wasnt, I havent seen  anything to show that Mr T has lost out due any potential  data 
protection breach. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think Be Wiser has already provided Mr T with fair 
compensation for whats happened. And I dont require it to pay anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7803823