K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that hes been contacted by a research company acting on TSB Bank  plcs 
behalf even though he closed his accounts some  years ago.
To settle  matters hed like compensation and to know how this happened.
background
Mr T says he closed  his TSB accounts in 2011-2012. But hes recently  been  contacted  by a 
research company who asked about  his recent experience with TSB. He wants  to know why 
his datas been retained for so long and why his complaint emails have been ignored.
TSB agrees that the research company shouldnt have contacted Mr T as he was no longer 
an active customer. TSB assured him that itd arranged for his details to be placed on an 
exclusion list so he wouldnt be contacted again  and paid him £25 compensation.
Mr T wasnt happy with TSBs  response so he brought his complaint to this service. The 
adjudicator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She could see TSBs Data  
Privacy Notice allows it to retain customer information after they are no longer customers for 
legal reasons. And it allows  TSB to disclose personal information (including sharing 
information with partners who help us provide services).
The adjudicator could see that TSB had admitted its error and paid £25 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused  and she considered this fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
She didnt  think TSB had acted unreasonably by keeping his information  because 
businesses are obliged  to keep data for six years and the closure of his accounts was within  
this period.
She could  see that TSB had apologised for the delay in replying to his emails and it 
explained this was due to the large number of complaints  they had received. So she 
thought TSBs apology was sufficient in the circumstances.
Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators view and says £25 compensation isnt sufficient. He 
says the privacy notice  should be the one that applied when he closed his accounts in 2011 
and TSB didnt exist then.  In response, the adjudicator explained that TSB had shown Mr T 
closed his last account in October 2013  and TSB was established in September 2013. As 
his last account was closed after TSB had been established she thought TSB had acted 
correctly in line with its data privacy notice.
He also says his details shouldnt have been passed  to the research company  because 
this wasnt for legal or regulatory purposes. In response the adjudicator explained that the 
privacy notice allows TSB to disclose  information  to its partners to improve the banks 
services. And she thought  £25 compensation was fair because Mr T hadnt  been impacted 
financially or personally.
Mr T also says that if he closed his accounts in October 2013 - then the data privacy notice 
applicable should be the one in place at that time.  And he says his data should have been 
deleted or anonymised. In response our adjudicator explained  that this service cant look into 
whether a business has breached data protection laws as this is the responsibility of the 
Information Commissioners Office.
Ref: DRN78765082Mr T remains unhappy with the adjudicators view so hes asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain  that its not the role of this service to decide if TSB has breached data 
protection laws by retaining Mr Ts details despite him no longer  being a TSB customer  
and/or by giving  his details to a research  company  and whether its acted in accordance  with 
its applicable  data privacy policy. These are matters for the Information Commissioners  
Office to look into. I can only determine  what a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint 
should be looking at the impact this has had on Mr T.
TSB has confirmed that Mr T shouldnt have been  contacted by the research company 
because he wasnt an active customer. And I can see that its apologised and confirmed that 
his details have  been placed  on an exclusion  list so he wont receive further calls. It also paid 
£25 compensation.
TSB has explained that the research company would never ask for any account information 
or security information. And theres no suggestion  that Mr T has suffered any financial loss 
as a result  of his details  being disclosed. So I consider that £25 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Mr T also complains  that TSB didnt respond to his complaint emails but I can see its 
apologised for this and explained why  and I think an apology is sufficient in the 
circumstances. So I dont  consider any further  compensation is merited.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876508