K820x#14Complaint
Miss K complains  that the shed  she financed through a credit agreement  with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) was faulty and had parts  missing.  She asked to 
return the shed  but it was never collected and then her account  was defaulted.
Background
Miss K acquired a shed through her credit  agreement with Shop Direct  on 3 January 2018, 
using her Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) account.  She says this was assembled  by a third 
party but there were  screws missing. She contacted Shop Direct on 6 January to say the 
shed was faulty. She says she wanted to return the shed and thought it was agreed it would 
be collected in February  2018 but this didnt happen.
Miss K also says that she made  regular  payments  towards her BNPL account  but then when 
further payments  couldnt be made  she checked her account  and found the shed  had been  
moved from her BNPL account to a different account and that a default had been recorded.  
She says this is unfair.  
Shop Direct says that when  Miss K raised her complaint  about  the shed a credit was applied  
to her account and collection arranged for 1 February 2018. It says it contacted the supplier 
to provide its opinion  on the product and after looking  at the photographs provided the 
supplier said the issue  was due to poor workmanship when the shed was assembled. 
Because of this the collection of the shed was cancelled and the cost of the shed was added  
back to Miss Ks account.
Shop Direct says that a mistake was made and instead of the cost of the shed being put 
back on Miss Ks BNPL account it was put on another account meaning that monthly 
payments towards  the shed were  being requested. As payments werent made  a default 
notice was issued  and Miss Ks account  sold to a collections  company. Given the issues 
Shop Direct said in its final response letter that it upheld  this part of Miss Ks complaint and 
that her account would be bought  back and that interest and administration fees would be 
removed. It also said that all adverse information would be removed  from Miss Ks credit  file 
in regard to this issue and that Miss K would be sent a cheque for £50.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Miss Ks complaint against Shop 
Direct was brought section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). He explained 
that under  section  75, Shop Direct could be held liable in certain circumstances if there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. He said that his role was to assess  whether 
or not Shop Direct dealt with Miss Ks section 75 claim appropriately. In this case he thought 
that Shop Direct had done what was required of it.
Our investigator said that Shop  Direct  had made a mistake by moving  the purchase from 
Miss Ks BNPL account to her flexible account  which then resulted in a default being applied  
and the account being sold to a collections company. He thought that Shop Direct  had acted 
fairly once  it was made aware of the issue as it had bought back  the account, removed all 
interest and administration fees,  removed the default and sent Miss K a cheque for £50.
 
Miss K didnt accept  our investigators  view.  She said that the shed had blown down and 
didnt accept this showed it was assembled incorrectly.
Ref: DRN79560722My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K entered into a credit agreement with Shop Direct in 2007 through which  she could 
make purchases. On 3 January 2018, she acquired  a shed through  her BNPL  account. She 
initially contacted  Shop Direct to say the shed was faulty as some  of the doors  didnt fit 
properly and parts were  missing. She then said that the shed  had been  assembled by a third 
party and that she had contacted the supplier but it had said it hadnt been constructed  
properly. On 18 January,  Miss K contacted Shop Direct again to say the shed had been  
blown down by strong  winds.
I can understand why Miss K is upset  that the shed she acquired wasnt to the standard  she 
had expected. I have looked  through the contact  notes  and can see that after making  contact 
in January 2018, Miss K was initially told to contact the supplier for an engineers  inspection.  
Following this she was told the shed would  be collected and the supplier  would be in touch 
about this. At this time Shop Direct says a credit  was applied to Miss Ks account. I find this 
reasonable.
I also find it reasonable that Shop  Direct contacted the supplier for further information. It 
received a response from the supplier saying  that it didnt accepted  rejection  of the shed  as 
Miss K had contacted it directly and sent photographs which  it said showed the shed hadnt 
been constructed correctly resulting in damage through the construction. Based on this I do 
not find it unreasonable that Shop Direct didnt accept  that a breach of contract had occurred 
and so the credit was reversed and the charge  reapplied. Without further  evidence  I do not 
find that I can say Shop  Direct acted unfairly in regard to this issue.
I have looked  through  the contact notes and can see collection was arranged  in February 
and that Miss K was told she would be contacted b the supplier. It is not then clear that she 
was told this wouldnt be happening. So while I do not find that Shop Direct was wrong in 
cancelling the collection it is not clear that Miss K was told about this at that time. 
Shop Direct did make a mistake in managing  Miss Ks account. It has explained  that when 
the cost of the shed was reapplied it wasnt reapplied to Miss Ks BNPL account. However, I 
find the actions  set out in the final response letter of buying back Miss Ks account, removing 
interest and administration fees,  removing adverse information from her credit  file and 
paying her £50 is reasonable. Shop Direct has confirmed the account has been bought back  
and the information removed from Miss Ks credit  file.
While I know this will be disappointing to Miss K, without further evidence I do not find that I 
can say Shop Direct did anything wrong in regard to her claim about the shed and I think the 
actions taken in response to the issue with her account were reasonable. 
Ref: DRN79560723My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7956072