K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that TFS Loans Limited  irresponsibly  lent to her. She says the high interest  
rate of the lending led her into a debt spiral.
background
From the information provided, Ms S was lent one loan by TFS in December 2015, the loan 
was for £5,000,  with interest, Ms S was due to repay a total of £11,727.60. Ms S was due to 
repay the loan in 60 monthly repayments of £195.46. TFS says Ms S told it the purpose of 
the loan was to consolidate her car finance loan.
When Ms S complained to TFS, it didnt uphold her complaint but offered £25 in refund for 
the late fee payment it charged  Ms S. Unhappy with the response,  Ms S referred her 
complaint to this service  where it was looked  at by one of our adjudicators.  Our adjudicator  
thought that TFS lent to Ms S when it should have known she couldnt  afford  it and 
recommended that the complaint be upheld.
TFS disagreed, it said it checks showed  that Ms S could afford the loan and once she 
consolidated her car finance payments, her monthly debt burden was less.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been  passed to me an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing without it 
significantly adversely  impacting  on their financial situation. 
TFS lent to Ms S in December 2015, the term of the loan was clearly  set out which  explained 
the interest rate and the monthly  repayments  during the term of the loan. Ms S agreed  that 
shed read the terms and signed accepting the terms of the loan. So, I think  she was aware  
of the terms of the loan when she took it out.
TFS has provided evidence to show that it searched Ms S credit file before  agreeing  to lend.  
From the credit  file, TFS could see that Ms S had two defaults  in 2012 and she was in a debt 
management plan between August 2012  and January  2014.  The results  of the search  also 
show that Ms S had been  using short term loans.
TFS also requested Ms S payslips and recorded her income as £1,500 per month. Ms S 
also told TFS she paid £50 for rent as she lived with her parents.
From what  TFS found  on Ms S credit  file, I think it should have been concerned enough to 
want to take its checks further, I think the overall picture it got from the results of the credit  
file suggest that Ms S may have had some  problems managing  money. Also,  the fact Ms S 
was committing to repaying the loan for five years, TFS should have wanted to know that 
Ms S could sustain the payments over the entire  period.
Ref: DRN79961572As TFS didnt  take its checks further, I dont  think it did enough before agreeing  to lend,  I 
think it should have  been looking to build  a clearer picture about Ms S monthly expenses.
Ive considered what TFS would likely  have  found  had it taken its checks further.  Ms S has 
provided a copy of her bank statements  from around the time of the loan. Ive used this to 
understand Ms S actual  financial circumstances at the time.
From what  I can see, Ms S income  in November 2015 was around £1,135. I can also see 
that she was borrowing  from at least four other  short term and high cost credit  lenders. Ms S 
also had a credit card with a balance of around £791  and she appeared to make  minimal 
payments towards  this balance. In the month  before TFS lent to Ms S, she borrowed around 
£2,300 in short term loans and was due to make repayments of over £1,050 towards these  
loans in the month TFS agreed  to lend to her. Ms S would have been spending almost her 
entire wage  on repaying debt and so regardless of her consolidating the car finance loan, 
she still wouldnt have been  able to afford the repayment of this TFS loan.
I think in the situation,  TFS ought to have  known that Ms S would struggle to make 
repayments in sustainable manner over the term of the loan and as a responsible lender, it 
shouldnt have lent to her. TFS needs to put things right.
putting things right  what TFS needs  to do
To put things right for Ms S, TFS should:
Remove all interest and charges applied as a result of this loan; and
Treat all payments Ms S made as payments towards the capital  amount  of £5,000,
As Ms S is likely to have paid more  than the capital amount, TFS should add interest  at 
8% simple per year on the overpayments from the date they were  paid, if they were,  to 
the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms S credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires  TFS to take off tax from this interest.  TFS must  give Ms S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms S complaint  and require TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7996157