K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner Finance 
twice declined his application for credit before it was eventually granted.  He wants  an 
explanation and compensation.
background
Mr G tells us in March 2018  he applied through a retail store Ill refer to as A for credit to 
obtain a mobile  phone. He says this was twice declined by BPF. After the first transaction 
was declined he says BPF told him to go back and try with a different variation  of his 
address. When he returned  to the store he was again refused. This not only caused 
embarrassment but the cost and inconvenience  of the additional trip. Mr G says his credit 
rating is fine and he wanted an explanation.
BPF have  told us the credit was originally refused because the customers credit profile was 
not pulled through with the application. Its subsequently done  a manual check and has now 
approved the loan.  It says it does not have any control over the content  of credit reference  
agency (CRA) data used  at the point of sale. So it isnt responsible  for errors.  In this case it 
believes the address  provided to A did not exactly match that held by the CRA.
The investigator has not recommended this complaint should be upheld. Hes issued three 
opinions the first of which upheld  the complaint. But following the submission of further  
evidence from BPF he changed his mind. Hes now concluded that BPF could not be held 
responsible. He found the successful application  was processed using a different variation of 
the address used in the previous applications.  And he says theres nothing on BPF system 
notes to say it advised  Mr G to return to the store a second time. 
Mr G didnt accept this view and as theres been no resolution of the complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G had the inconvenience  and frustration of having  his application refused twice. 
Ive seen a copy  of the relevant part of his credit record  which shows a high credit score. 
And whilst its up to a business  to decide who it lends to I can understand his surprise  when 
he was initially refused credit. Happily, I understand this aspect has now been resolved.
From the evidence Ive seen it appears  the reason  for the two refusals  at As store  was a 
variation in the postcode  used for Mr Gs address. Whilst  it may be of little consolation to Mr 
G, I am aware  from dealing  with many cases involving credit files that this does happen quite 
frequently. Whilst most  CRAs systems  are capable of recognising  a customers  details 
which are similar - but not an exact match - this can vary between CRAs. And some 
systems are less forgiving  when details do not match precisely. That is what seems to have 
happened here. But BPF is not responsible for customer details provided at the point of sale. 
And it seems probable  the information  inputted  by A resulted in the mismatch which led to 
the application being declined. So thats  not something for which  BPF can be held liable.
Ref: DRN75674452And whilst I dont doubt Mr Gs belief that he was advised to go back  to A and re-apply - 
theres no other evidence  in support  of this. In the absence of a recording of the call - which  
isnt available  - I dont think I can fairly say BPF is at fault.  And Ive already indicated  I dont 
think BPF is responsible for the information  supplied at the point for sale which  was the likely 
cause of cause  of the application being  declined.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr G Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7567445