K820x#14complaint
Mrs J and Mrs D, as executors of their late mothers estate, complain about a home  equity 
release mortgage  taken  out with Northern  Rock (now Landmark Mortgages Limited). They 
say their mother, Mrs W, was vulnerable, she didnt need to borrow  as much as was lent and 
the interest rate is extortionate.
background
In 2004 Mrs W took out an equity  release  mortgage for £27,000 on an interest roll-up  basis, 
so she didnt need to make  any monthly payments. 
In 2018 Mrs J and Mrs D complained about  the sale of the mortgage, saying (in summary):
Their mother was vulnerable as their father had died the year before and hed looked  
after all the financial  matters. 
Their mother was worried about  money as their father had been  in a care home  for six 
months before he died,  which left things tight financially. 
They dont  know why the mortgage  was for £27,000 as their mother  only used some of 
the money to spruce up her home, with the rest left sat in her account as a cushion for 
many years.
The 7.19% fixed interest rate is extortionate and disproportionate to the Bank  of England  
base rate, which  has meant theres  hardly any equity left in the property.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that the advice 
had been given by an independent  financial adviser  rather than Landmark, and she was 
satisfied the details of the product were made clear. Mrs J and Mrs D didnt accept our 
investigators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mrs J and Mrs D wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
The equity release mortgage was arranged by a third party  company unconnected  to 
Landmark. The application form was filled in and submitted to Landmark, which set up the 
mortgage as requested.  It seems Landmark neither met with nor spoke to Mrs W, and it 
didnt give her any advice  about the suitability of the mortgage.
Where a mortgage application is made through a third party  intermediary, such  as happened 
here, theres  no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate the role of the intermediary. 
At the time this mortgage was sold, the responsibility for any advice that may have been 
given about suitability (for example, the interest  rate) lay with the intermediary rather  than 
with the lender.
Ref: DRN74677112The lender  had a duty to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at the time 
discharge by relying on the information supplied by the intermediary. If, in Landmarks 
commercial judgement, it was satisfied  with the information provided by the intermediary 
about the customers circumstances (such  as the amount she wanted  to borrow and the 
interest rate she had agreed to) it was within its rights to do so. There was no regulatory 
requirement at that time for it to validate  the information or check the suitability of the advice. 
The regulatory requirements for mortgage  lending have changed substantially over the last 
few years.  But I can only consider this complaint based on the regulations  and normal 
industry practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight or the latest rules.
Having looked  at the documents,  Im satisfied Landmark did enough to make  Mrs W aware 
of how much she was borrowing and at what interest rate if she went  ahead. It also insisted 
that Mrs W used  her own independent solicitor  (rather than Landmarks appointed legal 
representatives).
Mrs J and Mrs D feel the interest rate is disproportionately high, but it was set out clearly in 
the mortgage agreement.  Landmark didnt give Mrs W any advice about whether this was 
best for her, it simply set out what she had applied for in the mortgage agreement, in a 
format that met the requirements of the time. Whilst I understand Mrs J and Mrs Ds 
concerns, there was nothing more that Landmark was required to do.
I think Mrs J and Mrs D also need  to keep  in mind the financial landscape as it was back  
then. At the time Mrs W applied for this mortgage  the Bank of England base rate was at 4% 
and was on an upwards trend (having increased  from 3.5% since  July 2003). In fact that 
upwards trend continued with it reaching 4.75% by the time the mortgage  completed in 
September 2004. So a fixed rate of 7.19% for a mortgage where no monthly repayments 
were to be made, and the lender was taking a risk the borrowing may increase to more  than 
the property was worth so it wouldnt get all its money back, wasnt unusual or out of the 
range Id expect  to see.
Having carefully considered everything  I cant reasonably find that Landmark acted 
incorrectly when it set up this mortgage that Mrs W applied for. Not can I safely  find that the 
interest rate has been charged  other  than as was set out in the contract  Mrs W entered into. 
It may be Mrs J and Mrs D think their mother shouldnt  have  taken out this mortgage,  but 
thats not Landmarks fault.  All it did was give Mrs W the product that shed applied for. And 
the basis of that product  including  how much she was borrowing and the interest  rate  
was set out in the paperwork. This mortgage  wasnt linked to the Bank of England  base rate; 
instead it was fixed for the life of the mortgage. That was explained in the paperwork, and it 
was the responsibility  of Mrs Ws independent  adviser and solicitor  to ensure Mrs W 
understood what that meant in real terms.
If Mrs J and Mrs D have any concerns about how their mothers  intermediary advised her, 
theyd need to complain separately  to that company.  In saying that, Im making  no 
recommendation that they should  make a separate complaint, and they should draw no 
inferences on what the outcome of such a complaint,  if made, might be. But I cant fairly hold 
Landmark liable for any acts or omissions there  may have been on the intermediarys part. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN74677113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mrs D 
(on behalf  of the estate of Mrs W) to accept  or reject  my decision before 20 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467711