K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a conservatory.
background
In the summer  of 2018 Mrs P paid £2,500 to a company I will call N. She says this was for 
work to upgrade  her conservatory.  The work was carried  out by a company I will call C. She 
was dissatisfied  with the quality of the work, but was unable to get C to carry out repairs.  
She contacted Tesco. It investigated the transaction and couldnt find the required debtor, 
creditor supplier (d-c-s) link. It noted  that an individual  had been a director of both 
companies, but not at the same time.
Mrs P said she wasnt aware that the payment had been taken by N and suggested the 
transaction had been fraudulent. Tesco said that Mrs P had received the goods  she paid for 
and didnt consider fraud to be an issue. It offered to make a chargeback,  but Mrs P declined 
as she didnt want the goods  to be taken away if the claim  was successful.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She agreed that the d-c-s link had been  
broken. She sympathised with Mrs P, but said section 75 didnt apply and she couldnt ask 
Tesco to do anything. She also agreed  that the transaction wasnt fraudulent. Mrs P didnt 
agree and said the payment went to a different company with whom she had no dealings  
and as such it was fraud.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
In this case the debtor is Mrs P, the creditor is Tesco and the supplier is C. However Mrs P 
didnt pay C directly and presumably  N which took the payment acted as an intermediary. 
This can happen; for example  an individual may pay a builder and he then pays a supplier 
for goods to be used  in the customers property  for which  he isnt contracted to supply. The 
end result is that the customer makes the payment to the builder which acts as an 
intermediary. The customer spends  the money and receives the goods, but the way the 
transaction is routed means that section 75 doesnt  apply.
Ref: DRN79740292I have every sympathy with Mrs P and I accept that this appears to be a technical  loophole,  
but I cannot direct Tesco to uphold her claim when I dont think  it meets the legal 
requirements.
Nor can I say it was fraud.  Mrs P paid the money  she agreed in exchange for goods  which  
were supplied. The fact the payment went via an intermediary doesnt make the transaction  
fraudulent. There is limited paperwork for the transaction and I can see nothing which 
suggests fraud. I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, but I regret  to say 
that I cannot uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7974029