K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mrs R. Allianz  didnt  actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1991 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs R was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs R has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why.
The form, which Mrs R signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you make by ticking  
a box  and I can see that this box was ticked. So I think the shed have  known it was 
optional. 
It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mrs Rs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs R to decide  whether it was suitable.
However Allianz did need to give Mrs R clear and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs R. So Ive thought about  whether  better information  is likely to have made a 
difference to her decision  and, although I cant be sure, I think  its unlikely. I say this 
because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Mrs R has said she had substantial savings, but she hasnt  responded to the adjudicators  
request for evidence  of such a large  amount, and whether the savings were  readily  available 
if she needed them to meet her outgoings. Also the PPI would mean she could have kept 
any savings in reserve for longer, if she lost income due to sickness or unemployment. So 
the evidence I have is that the PPI would have been potentially useful in Mrs Rs 
circumstances. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant  
exclusions in the policy. So I dont think clearer information about  the PPI is likely to have 
affected her decision to take the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN71995752Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7199575