K821x#15complaint
Ms O complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms O was sold a PPI policy in connection with her mortgage in 1993.
The policy would have provided a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months if Ms O was off work 
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Os complaint should be upheld. Nationwide  didnt agree 
with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Ms Os complaint.
Nationwide say that they didnt advise Ms O to take PPI out. This means they didnt have  to 
take steps to ensure the PPI was suitable  for Ms O. But they should still have provided Ms O 
with clear information about the policy  in particular about the costs/benefits  and main 
exclusions/restrictions at the point at which Ms O was sold the policy so that Ms O could  
make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI out.
I dont think Nationwide  made it clear to Ms O at the point of sale that she wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim under  the policy unless she had been off work  sick or out of a job 
for 90 days.  Nationwide  have  referred  us to the documentation Ms O would have received 
and say that it would have  been made clear to her that there was a 90 day waiting period. 
However, from the information  Ive been  provided  with, I cant say that this particular waiting 
period was drawn to Ms Os attention as it should  have been.
So I have  to go on and consider whether or not Ms O would  have taken the policy out 
despite the 90 day waiting period. Nationwide say that having this 90 day waiting period was 
better than having  no policy at all in Ms Os circumstances. This is because Ms O has told us 
she was only entitled to statutory sick pay. Nationwide say that they would have reacted 
sympathetically to Ms Os situation  if she couldnt  meet her mortgage  repayments and would 
have made  payment concessions (and in fact did when the need arose)    so the 90 day 
waiting period wouldnt have been onerous  for Ms O and Nationwide wouldnt have been 
overly concerned with Ms Os inability to meet her repayments during this time.
Ive thought carefully about everything Nationwide have  said,  but I think its unlikely Ms O 
would have taken  out this particular policy if she had been made aware  of the 90 day waiting 
period. This is because  Ms O had no other guaranteed (I appreciate  she says her family may 
have been able to help,  but this couldnt  be guaranteed  as circumstance change) means of 
Ref: DRN74782702meeting her repayments  if she was off work sick or lost her job. So I think  she would have 
found the 90 day waiting period very stressful  in the circumstances. 
And although Nationwide have shown  us they did make concessions, this is not something 
which they guaranteed at the point of sale. In fact their booklet reads  Though Nationwide 
are always  as sympathetic and flexible as possible,  your home could be at risk if you dont 
keep up your mortgage repayments. So I think the way the policy  was presented  shows it is 
unlikely that Ms O would  have been  provided  with reassurances about concessions at the 
time of the sale. Also I bear in mind that that any arrangement Nationwide  may have been 
able to come  into with Ms O if she fell into arrears would have increased Ms Os outstanding 
mortgage balance.
All in all, from the information available to me, I think when Ms O was being  sold this cover,  it 
was sold on the basis that it would give her peace  of mind that her repayments would be 
taken care of if she was unable to work  and to reduce the risk of repossession.  There was 
no guarantee that Nationwide  would be able to help otherwise as much as they might have 
wanted to and there was insufficient emphasis on the 90 day waiting period. 
So having  taken everything into consideration, I think Nationwide mis-sold  Ms O this PPI 
policy.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Ms O in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Ms O the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Ms O made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Ms O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Os complaint  against  Nationwide Building Society and require them  to pay     
Ms O the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7478270