K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2009.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  for the reasons below.
Mrs R applied for PPI over the internet and Santander have sent us example internet  screen  
shots that they say are reflective  of what Mrs R wouldve seen and completed when applying 
for the PPI.
Santander had to give Mrs R clear enough  information about the policy  so she could decide 
if she wanted to take it out. As it seems  Mrs R completed this application without anyone 
from Santander present,  the information contained  in the internet screen shots  is likely to 
have been the only information  she wouldve  had.
Having considered the screen shots,  I dont think Mrs R was given good enough information 
about the cost of this policy. Santander  has said that the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided  
when Mrs R chose to take PPI, as it was only calculated  once  the loan had been approved 
and the interest  rate decided.  Ive thought  about  what Santander has said about Mrs R being 
able to access an online calculator, which they say wouldve given an estimate  of what the 
loan repayment  with and without PPI wouldve been. However theyve also said that Mrs R 
wouldnt have had to use this calculator as it wasnt a mandatory  part of the process. 
Santander has said the figures  provided  by the calculator would only be estimates  of what  
her repayments would be and not an exact figure. So I cant safely say that Mrs R wouldve 
been aware of how much  shed be paying for the PPI when he chose  to take it out.
Santander has also said that Mrs R wouldve been sent a welcome pack  which included a 
letter giving more  details  of the PPI, including information on the cost. It hasnt sent us a 
copy of the actual letter sent to Mrs R, but theyve provided an example of what they say it 
wouldve looked like. But even if Mrs R did receive and read a letter like this, she wouldnt 
have seen it until after shed agreed to take out the PPI.
I dont think, based on what Ive seen,  and been  told, that Mrs R was given clear information 
about the cost of the policy before she agreed to take it out. And she shouldve been.
If Mrs R had been given  good enough  information about the cost of the policy,  I dont think  
shed have taken  it out. I say this because the cost of Mrs Rs PPI was £42.32 per month for 
Ref: DRN73471952£193.06 of cover. When Ive considered this alongside what  Mrs R has told us about her 
circumstances and I dont  think shed have thought this policy  was good value for money for 
her  if shed been aware of the cost before she agreed to take it out.
Therefore, I think Mrs R has lost out because  of what Santander did wrong. Ive taken into 
account Santanders comments, including  their response to our adjudicators assessment, 
but I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs R in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
-Pay Mrs R the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
-Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
-Santander has already paid Mrs R back some  of the money she paid for the PPI (in 
relation to the commission and profit share  it received) and it can take that off from 
the amount it owes her.
-
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Santander UK Plc should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7347195