K820x#14complaint
Mr R represents the trustees  of a trust set up for the benefit of his daughter. In summary he 
believes that HSBC  UK Bank Plc made  errors and caused delays when it carried out a 
safeguarding process in respect of the trust bank account. 
background
In late 2017 HSBC approached Mr R for information  it required to carry out a safeguarding 
process in respect  of the trust bank account. After speaking to Mr R it wrote to him with its 
request for the information  it needed. 
It asked for identification documentation for the beneficiary of the trust.  And it asked for a 
death certificate for the settlor of the trust who was Mr Rs father.
Mr R responded to the request. He explained that his father was alive and provided a copy  
of the beneficiarys  passport and bank  statement. He registered a complaint about  how the 
safeguarding process had been handled.
HSBC then wrote to Mr R again asking  for more information to complete the review. In 
March 2018 it sent a letter to Mr R explaining  that it had completed the review and it didnt 
need any more  information. It explained why the safeguarding  process had been carried  out 
and apologised  for the delays he had encountered throughout the review. It also apologised 
for requesting information that wasnt required.  HSBC also said that it had removed  
restrictions on the account and reinstated full banking facilities. It offered £500 in 
compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused. 
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She initially  wrote  to HSBC  
explaining why Mr R believed the level of compensation wasnt  enough. She referred to the 
fact that Mr Rs father had been  in hospital and that the request for the death certificate  had 
caused Mr R a great deal of distress.  Mr R believed that the lack of communication  he 
received from HSBC throughout the complaint warranted  more compensation. She said that 
Mr R was of the view that £1,000 compensation would be more appropriate.
In response HSBC said that it assumed  Mr R had made the complaint as a trustee. As a 
result it wasnt  his distress that our service needed  to measure or compensate. 
Mr R disagreed. He told the investigator that it was him who had suffered the distress of 
being asked inappropriately for his fathers  death  certificate. And it was he who had to suffer  
the poor handling of the safeguarding process by HSBC. He wanted  HSBC to acknowledge 
that he had been caused significant distress and pay him a total of £1,000 for the poor 
handling and distress he had been  caused. He also thought  HSBC  had breached  data 
protection regulations by requiring him to provide copies of his fathers  identity documents.
Our investigator then wrote to HSBC. She explained that Mr R as the individual  acting as 
trustee had been  caused upset. And she thought  a further £250 compensation was 
warranted, in recognition  of the account  being closed.
After being told his complaint would be reviewed by an ombudsman, Mr R wrote to the 
investigator asking  if he could have a hearing with the ombudsman;  so that verbal  evidence  
and explanations could be taken from both parties.
Ref: DRN76186862HSBC responded  to the investigators  assessment.  In summary it believed  the £500  it had 
offered was fair. 
I reviewed the case and wrote to Mr R in February  2019 about his request for an oral 
hearing. I explained why I didnt  think one was necessary.
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought the offer made by HSBC  was fair 
and reasonable on 19 March 2019.  Mr R didnt agree with what  I said. In summary, he 
wasnt happy with the level of detail  I had set out and believed there were errors of fact and 
detail in the decision. He commented on each section of my provisional  decision and 
provided supporting  information to outline  what  he considered  to be the deficiencies of detail 
and logic in it. 
HSBC said in response that it had no more information to add and accepted the provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that the offer made by HSBC is fair and reasonable. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Mr R isnt happy with the level of detail  I set out in my provisional  decision. As I explained in 
my provisional decision and reiterated  above,  I have considered all of the available evidence 
and arguments.  And it isnt my intention to be discourteous to Mr R by not setting out in my 
decision the level of detail he thinks I should.
But as the ombudsman deciding this case its a matter for me to set out what I consider  to be 
an appropriate level of detail in relation to the relevant facts. And its also for me to decide on 
the key issues  as I see them. This means that not every single point or piece of information a 
party thinks  is relevant  and would like to be recorded or addressed; will necessarily be set 
out or specifically commented upon  by me. But I can assure Mr R and HSBC  that I have 
thought very carefully about everything they have said and considered all of the information 
given to me. 
So in the context of this case its not in dispute that HSBC caused  delays  during  the 
safeguarding process it carried  out in respect of the trust bank account.  Its also accepted 
that it shouldnt  have asked for information  about  Mr Rs father. As a result,  I dont think its 
necessary for me to specifically set out in my decision every shortcoming  made  by HSBC in 
the safeguarding  process and in its dealings  with Mr R.  
Mr R doesnt believe HSBC has made a proper apology. He thinks that because I said I was 
satisfied with HSBCs apology, Ive belittled  what he thinks is the seriousness of what  HSBC 
has done wrong. Although I understand Mr R thinks HSBC  should have apologised in a 
different way, what I said was that I thought HSBC had done  the right thing by apologising to 
Mr R for asking  for incorrect  information   and also for the delays its caused.  And Im 
satisfied that its apology is an appropriate  one.  
I dont agree with Mr R that Ive belittled  the seriousness of the errors  HSBC has made. I say 
this because as I said in my provisional decision,  its clear  to me from what Mr R has said 
that he has been very upset by the incorrect information HSBC asked him to provide. And I 
do understand that his father  having  been in hospital  would in all likelihood have 
Ref: DRN76186863compounded his distress. In addition, I can understand that he would  have been  upset  by 
being told the bank account  was going  to be closed. 
HSBC has said that as Mr R has made  the complaint as a trustee, it wasnt his distress and 
inconvenience that we needed to consider. And it has referred to guidance from our website 
in relation to awards of this type. It thought the customer was the trust, not him.
I dont agree with what HSBC has said. In this case Mr R as a trustee is an eligible 
complainant and is essentially the customer. The guidance that HSBC has referred to deals 
with different situations where the representative is bringing the complaint on someone 
elses behalf. So they arent  the customer in that situation. In this case I think as Mr R is an 
eligible complainant and customer,  I am able to consider his distress  and inconvenience.
Mr R thinks that even  if I dont agree with him, I should  at least  be consistent with the 
investigator. My role is to review the file afresh and reach my own opinion. Im not bound by 
what our investigator said and I dont agree with her assessment that a further £250 should  
be paid to Mr R.  
As Ive explained, I accept  Mr R has suffered some  substantial distress and inconvenience  
as a result  of what HSBC  has done. And Im very sorry to hear that his father has passed 
away whilst  this matter has been ongoing. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R has told us about the impact all of this has had 
on him. But I dont agree  with Mr Rs logic that because Ive said he has suffered some 
substantial distress and inconvenience, or that because HSBC  said it hadnt taken into 
account any distress caused  to him, this should  result in an award  in excess of the £500  
HSBC has offered. 
In cases such as this it is difficult for monetary  awards to fully compensate an individual  for 
any upset they may have  suffered. But it does  recognise and reflect  the impact on them.  And 
although HSBC  has said its offer didnt take into account any distress caused to Mr R 
because it thought he was a trustee and not an eligible complainant; my assessment does. 
And having taken  everything into account I think the £500 offered by HSBC is appropriate to 
compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced. I know that Mr R 
doesnt agree and hes been very clear in explaining  why. But ultimately  its for me to decide 
what I think is an appropriate  level of compensation in each  individual case.
Mr Rs suggestion that an award to him of £1,000 would put HSBC  on notice that they have 
a duty to investigate, admit their failings  and pay appropriate compensation promptly ; 
suggests to me that Mr R wants  me to make a punitive award against HSBC.  But its not my 
role or the role of this service to punish  HSBC  for what  it has done. I can only look into 
individual complaints. So I simply dont have the authority to make to make an award of the 
type it seems Mr R would  like me to. It would be a matter for the regulator  to decide if any 
financial sanction should be made  against HSBC.
Mr R is also concerned that HSBC may have breached data protection regulations  by 
requiring him to provide  unnecessary information.  That information was in respect of his late 
father. So its not Mr Rs data that has been provided unnecessarily. And it seems to me that 
this issue would need to be considered by the Information Commissioner not this service.
Ref: DRN76186864my final decision
I am aware  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made  an offer to pay £500. I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision  is that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc should 
pay Mr R £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618686