K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Ascent Performance Group  Limited (Ascent) mis-handled  their 
collection of a debt from him.
 
background
Ascent took responsibility  for collecting a debt from Mr H in 2014. The debt had originally 
been incurred  with a company Ill call S. 
Mr H says that at the time he was suffering from poor mental  health.  He complained to 
Ascent that:
the money shouldnt  have  been lent to him 
Ascent shouldnt have taken him to County Court as this forced him into further debt 
and he was unable  to defend himself because of his ill health
they treated  him poorly  in the communications  they had with him
they were wrong to charge  him legal fees for the County Court Judgement 
they havent told the court that the debt was settled in August 2018
Ascent didnt think there was any evidence they burdened Mr H financially. They said hed 
need to get a Certificate of Satisfaction  from the court so that his credit file could be updated 
and they explained that it was S and not them who were responsible  for the original lending.  
So they forwarded Mr Hs complaint, about  irresponsible lending, to them.
But Mr H was dissatisfied with their response so he referred his complaint to this service 
where our investigator provided an opinion. She reviewed the communication  between  Mr H 
and Ascent but couldnt see there  was evidence of them being  pushy or unhelpful. She 
noted that they had signposted  Mr H to some  debt charities who may be able to help him 
and that theyd been in contact to try to arrange a payment plan. She noted that Ascent had 
warned Mr H that if the case  went to court he may be charged  for their legal fees so she 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
She went on to consider  how Ascent  had handled Mr Hs mental  health.  But she couldnt find 
evidence that they had been made aware  of Mr Hs struggles and noted  that theyd only 
been in contact on a couple  of occasions  by phone.  So she didnt think there  was evidence 
ascent should  have treated Mr H any differently.
She explained that a County Court Judgement would be removed after it had been on Mr Hs 
credit file for six years and as that time hadnt  elapsed she understood the judgement would 
still be impacting his credit file. She explained that it wasnt  Ascents responsibility to remove 
the judgement  from his file and that would be Ss responsibility. She also noted Mr Hs 
concerns about  irresponsible lending  but she explained that the loan was approved by S and 
it would  be them whod  have  to consider any complaint Mr H had about  mis-selling;  not 
Ascent.
So overall, the investigator didnt think that Ascent needed to take any further action. But 
Mr H did and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN72717262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Hs problems.  I hope  things are now starting to improve.
Ive taken a look at his complaint but I agree  with the investigators view. I know  that will 
disappoint Mr H so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
mental health issues, poor communication and burdening  Mr H with debt
If Ascent  were aware of Mr Hs mental  health  issues Id have  expected them to be 
sympathetic and positive  to him and to make adjustments  to ensure he was able to 
understand what was happening.
But I dont think theres evidence here that they were  aware.  Communication was very 
limited and whilst I understand  that the messages being conveyed  would  have been  difficult  
for Mr H, Ive not seen  evidence that the communication was mishandled.
And I dont  think Ascent forced Mr H into further  debt. I see the court proceedings were 
lodged in March  2014 but I can see that Ascent  advised him he could  avoid those 
proceedings if he could agree a satisfactory  payment arrangement  and that they were 
sympathetic to his situation when signposting him to organisations that could provide help.
the lending decision
The loan wasnt provided by Ascent  and any complaint about irresponsible lending  will 
therefore need to be directed to company S. I can see that Ascent told Mr H theyd do this 
for him but I cant hold Ascent responsible  for the sale of the loan.
legal costs
Ascent warned  Mr H that hed be responsible for legal costs  if court  action was necessary 
and they tried to avoid  court costs  by agreeing a payment plan with him. I wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to suggest they were  wrong  to subsequently make charges for these costs  when 
the charging order was approved through the courts.
credit file reports
Mr Hs default will continue to be reported on his credit file for six years. Its for company S to 
remove it as they were the lender.  But as the investigator has explained, if Mr H wants to get 
a Certificate of Satisfaction from the courts he can use this to demonstrate to future creditors  
that the debt has now been  settled.
Ref: DRN72717263But its not Ascents responsibility to amend Mr Hs credit file. So again, and overall,  I dont 
think theres evidence  here that they did anything  wrong or need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7271726