K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd asked him to significantly increase his monthly  
premiums on a life cover  plan to maintain  the cover amount.
background
Mr J took out his policy in 1992. It was a life insurance only pension  plan with a review at 
age 60, then continuing, with agreement,  up to age 75. In January 2018  Zurich  wrote to Mr J 
to explain that it should have reviewed  his plan when he reached his selected  retirement  age 
of 60, to ensure assumptions made when the plan started still applied  but that it hadnt 
done so due to an error.  Zurich went on to explain that, as a result of this, Mr J had paid less 
for the cover since age 60 than he should have  done. It explained what  the new cost would 
be from 1 April 2018, and that if Mr J wanted to maintain the current  level of cover, his new 
monthly premium would increase considerably. 
Zurich also explained  that the error  had caused  the plan to incorrectly build up an investment 
value (as a life insurance only pension the policy  wasnt permitted to hold a surrender value), 
and that it would remove the investment value  and pay Mr J the amount  hed overpaid  plus 
interest less tax. Mr J was asked to let Zurich know how he wished to proceed with regards 
to the life cover.  
Mr J complained about the proposed  increase in cost. Zurich offered Mr J compensation of 
£155 for distress  and inconvenience, but it didnt otherwise uphold his complaint.  Mr J 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint. Mr J disagreed with the investigators 
opinion, so the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for materially the same reasons.
I can understand if Mr J was shocked  in 2018  by Zurichs request that his monthly premium 
be increased from around £19 to £207  to maintain his level of cover. This is, by any 
measure, a large increase. But looking at the way the plan operates, Im satisfied Zurich has 
acted fairly  and reasonably in addressing its error of not reviewing the plan earlier. 
I say this because  Im satisfied that if Zurich had reviewed the plan earlier, the costs would 
have increased  earlier  (and by a substantial amount). Mr J is not looking to stop payments 
for life cover  altogether now, but to pay for life cover at a manageable premium.  Mr J also 
indicated to our investigator  that had the review been performed correctly  (earlier) he would 
have continued  to pay for life cover. So I think what has happened as a result of Zurichs  
failure to review the policy earlier is that Mr J, since then until now,  has benefitted from a 
higher level of cover than his premium otherwise would have provided. Its common for an 
increase in premiums  to be required with a plan like this. The costs  associated with providing 
life cover increase  considerably with age. So I think Mr J would, in terms of his cover, be in 
fundamentally the same situation   facing higher costs for life cover  and facing the same 
choices as he is now.
Ref: DRN76432552Zurich did nonetheless fail to review  the policy when it should  have.  But Zurich has offered 
Mr J £155 for the distress  and inconvenience  it has caused, and I think overall this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7643255