K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance in 1998.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs N took out her PPI policy over the telephone some months after she had taken out a 
store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this matter should be upheld. Mrs N was unhappy with this view, 
saying that she disagreed  she would  have benefited from the cover.  She asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs N had a fair choice about buying the PPI. To 
help me decide  Ive considered the available evidence, what  the parties have told me and I 
have taken into account what we know about these types of sales  from that time.
Mrs N has told us that the sales advisor  ran through the form and asked her to complete and 
sign it. She has also told us that while she was on the telephone the representative was 
ticking boxes. 
FICL has told us that this policy  was taken out over the telephone once the store card 
account had been set up. FICL has been  able to provide a copy  of the original application  
completed when  Mrs N applied for her card. At that time the section about the PPI was left 
blank. It is signed  and dated  in December 1997. Mrs Ns policy commenced in April 1998 - 
some months after she had applied for her store card. So at the time Mrs N took out her 
store card I dont think she would  have thought it was something she needed to have in 
order to be accepted for a card.
FICL cant provide  a copy of the call recording or a copy of the call script from 1998.  This 
isnt surprising or unusual given that the sale took place over twenty  years  ago and 
businesses dont have  to keep records indefinitely. Where the evidence  is incomplete though 
I will make  my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is whats  more  likely to have 
happened taking  into account what both parties have told us as well as taking into account 
what we do know about these types of sales at the time. And whilst I dont doubt that Mrs N 
has given me her honest and best recollection of events she hasnt given me any detailed  
recollection about why the representative  might  have  added this without her confirmation or 
consent.
Ref: DRN71702772And I also think its likely taking  into account  what we know  about these types of sales that 
Mrs Ns PPI premiums  would have been  collected  separately and would have appeared on 
her store card statements. So if she was unsure  about it she could  have raised it with FICL  
at some point before  now.
I dont think this was an advised sale. That meant that FICL  didnt  need  to make sure it was 
right for her circumstances.  But it still had to make sure it gave Mrs N enough  clear  
information so she could decide  for herself whether  she wanted to take it out.
Its possible that not all the information  was as clear  as it could have been. But thats  not 
enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need  to consider whether better or clearer 
information would have changed Mrs Ns mind about buying the policy.  
Mrs N confirmed she received sick pay from work  of six months full pay and three  months 
half pay. She has also told us she had £3000  in savings and life cover  and she was living 
with her parents  at the time so she had no use for the cover.  This was a non-advised sale so 
it was up to Mrs N to decide for herself  whether she wanted to take out the PPI. But to help 
me decide Ive looked at Mrs Ns circumstances and I still think the PPI could have been  
useful. It would have  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim so longer than her full sick pay 
would have lasted  and meant  Mrs N could have  used  her savings for other important 
expenses if things went wrong. Life cover isnt the same thing as PPI. Life cover wouldnt 
pay out if she lost her job or was off work through sickness or if she had an accident.
Mrs N was eligible for the PPI and as she was in good health and didnt have any unusual 
employment circumstances I dont think she would have been affected by any of the main  
limitations and exclusions  in this policy which might have made  it more  difficult  to make a 
claim. 
Theres nothing which makes me think the PPI was unaffordable at the time.  Overall I dont 
think Mrs N lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.  For the reasons Ive given I think 
the PPI could have been  useful if Mrs N fell into difficulty and on balance,  I dont think shed 
have been put off buying the cover even if shed been given better  or clearer information. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs N but I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170277