K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that he wasnt able to receive  pension benefits when he reached 50 
years of age as hed expected. Mr Rs policy was originally set up with Abbey Life and is now 
administered by Phoenix Life Limited. For ease and consistency Ill refer to Phoenix Life 
throughout this decision.
background
Mr R, a professional golfer,  took out a Personal  Pension Plan (PPP)  in October 1991 having 
been advised by Phoenix Life. He selected  a retirement date of March 2019, his 50th 
birthday. In January 2019, Phoenix Life sent a Retirement  Pack  to Mr R. This set out the 
options open to Mr R to take his benefits. The value  of Mr Rs retirement  fund was 
£11,779.82.
In March 2019 Phoenix Life told Mr R that he wouldnt be able to take his pension benefits  
from age 50. Instead he would have  to wait until he reached 55 years of age. This was 
because of a change in the law in 2010.  This increased the minimum age to take pension 
benefits from 50 to 55.
Mr R complained in April 2019. He said that, for the previous 25 years, hed been told his 
retirement age would be 50. But now, when  trying to claim the benefits, Phoenix  Life says he  
will have to wait until 55.
Phoenix Life issued  a Final Response Letter (FRL) in May 2019. It said:
When he took out the plan, Mr R selected 50 as his retirement age. At the time, this was 
the minimum age at which benefits could be taken. Legislation allowed for those with 
what is known as a prescribed  occupation to take benefits at an earlier age. Golfers,  
such as Mr R, could take their benefits  from 40 years  of age.
A change in pension legislation occurred  in April 2010. This changed  the normal 
minimum retirement age from 50 to 55.
HMRC allowed those  in a prescribed occupation  to protect  their earlier  retirement age; 
as Mr R hadnt chosen an earlier age than 50, there was no protection.
Following the change in legislation, Phoenix Life should have amended  its records  to 
show the new retirement age of 55. Due to an administrative error, it didnt. Phoenix Life 
continued to send annual statements which showed  Mr Rs retirement age as being 50. 
Phoenix Life sent a retirement pack in January 2019 showing retirement options at 50 
years of age.
It apologised for this error. To recognise the loss of expectation  and the trouble and 
upset this has caused, it paid £300 to Mr R.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr R complained  to this service. He said he was unhappy  he 
couldnt get his pension  until age 55, yet the agreement was that hed be able to take it when 
he was 50. He also asked why he wasnt told this.  He wanted Phoenix  Life to keep its 
promise that hed be able to receive  his pension at age 50.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said:
Phoenix Life accepted it hadnt  informed Mr R of the legislative change  which  increased 
the age at which he could take his benefits  from age 50 to 55.
She hadnt seen  anything  to suggest Mr R had been made  sufficiently aware of the 
option to select  a lower retirement  age because he was a professional golfer.  Mr R had 
Ref: DRN79329782mentioned this on the application form for his PPP and she thought  this should  have 
prompted a conversation about the option  to select an earlier  retirement age. 
She didnt agree  the prescribed occupation rules were explained clearly or appropriately 
drawn to Mr Rs attention.  Had they been, she thought it likely Mr R would have chosen 
an earlier retirement age. This would  have been protected when pension  simplification 
rules came into force.
Phoenix Life has said information relating to the prescribed occupation rules was 
explained in the policy document, so Mr R was able to make an informed choice. 
However, the relevant section is found  towards  the end of a fairly lengthy document.
In anticipation  of receiving his benefits, Mr R had upgraded  his car at a cost of £12,000. 
Hed planned to scale down working by one day per week, but couldnt do this now.  Hed 
also had to borrow more  from his mortgage  to pay for the car upgrade; this cost him an 
extra £500  per month.
Mr R should be entitled  to take his benefits  now because he ought to have been  advised 
to select a lower retirement  age as a result  of his occupation. She recommended 
Phoenix Life let Mr R access his pension fund as a cash  lump  sum.
Phoenix Life should be responsible for liaising with HMRC to explain the situation  and 
the remedial action they are taking to put things right for Mr R. If HMRC  deems this an 
unauthorised payment, Phoenix  Life should be responsible for reimbursing Mr R for any 
additional charge.
Mr R has suffered  a substantial amount of trouble  and upset. She thought the £300  
compensation offered by Phoenix  Life was fair acknowledgement of this.
Mr R accepted what the investigator  said. Phoenix  Life initially  asked  for an extended period 
of time to consider a response. But we heard  nothing further. Under our rules we treat this as 
if Phoenix Life didnt  agree with what our investigator said. So the case has been referred to 
me for a decision.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Rs complaint but recommending a different 
remedy to what the investigator proposed. Ive set out my provisional findings  below.
My first step in considering this complaint  has been  to look at the original  sale of the PPP to 
Mr R in 1991. This is to establish whether the sale was advised or non-advised (execution-
only). Determining this is important because Mr R would  need sufficient information to make  
an informed choice about an execution-only sale. The obligation is on the financial advisor to 
provide this information. 
Here the evidence is contradictory. I can see that a fact-find has been completed.  This gives  
the impression  of an advised sale  indeed, the form is for an advised sale.  But the form has 
a manuscript amendment  which  says execution-only. On balance I think this likely was an 
execution-only sale.
At the time of the sale of the PPP, Mr R was a professional golfer. This is a prescribed 
occupation; an occupation which, subject to certain  conditions, can allow benefits to taken 
earlier than the normal minimum  pension age. The detail of this is found in HMRCs   
Pensions Tax Manual (PTM) 062100 . The PTM says a professional  golfer, such  as Mr R, 
could retire (and take benefits) from age 40. The brochure for Mr Rs PPP says: If you are in 
certain occupations you may be able to choose an earlier retirement date. But this is on 
page five of a ten-page document, so I dont think it would have been obvious to Mr R. More  
importantly, Ive seen  that Mr Rs PPP application form shows he is a professional golfer. I 
Ref: DRN79329783would have expected the financial advisor to have  been aware of the prescribed occupation 
rules. This should have  been the trigger for a discussion with Mr R about the option of being  
able to take benefits earlier than the retirement age at the time of the sale, which  was 50 
years of age. I dont have  notes of the discussions between Mr R and the financial advisor in 
1991, so I cant  say exactly what happened. Mr R says he doesnt recall discussing the 
option of retiring  earlier than 50 years of age when the PPP was sold to him. And its 
possible that it wasnt. However, I also have to consider that the sale happened a long time 
ago and Mr R might have simply forgotten about  this. In any case,  whether it was discussed 
or whether it wasnt, this doesnt change the outcome of my decision. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what Mr R would have  done  had he been told he could retire as early as 
40 years  of age. Mr R has told us he selected to retire  at 50 because  this is the earliest age 
he could play as a senior on the Professional Golfers Association  (PGA) tour and this was 
a good time to semi-retire.  I cant say for certain what  Mr R would have done. But, on 
balance, I think Mr R would still have opted  to retire at 50, even if he had been told about  the 
option to retire earlier than that. Ive not seen enough to safely say that Mr R would  have 
chosen to take his benefits earlier than 50. Here, Mr Rs point about 50 being the age at 
which he could compete on the PGA  senior  tour is compelling. Also, in 1991 nobody  knew 
that nearly 20 years later retirement  ages  would increase and selecting an earlier  retirement 
age than 50 would have been  protected. So there would have been no obvious benefit for 
selecting a lower retirement  age. In 1991 Mr R should have been told about the option to 
retire earlier  than 50 because of his occupation. But even if he had I think he would still have 
chosen to retire at 50 because  of his intention to become a senior player on the PGA tour.
If Mr R had chosen a retirement age earlier  than 50, HMRC rules would have allowed him to 
protect this earlier  retirement  age. The protection allowed by HMRC  didnt apply to Mr Rs 
selected retirement age of 50. So Mr Rs retirement age automatically increased to 55 when 
the 2010 legislation came into force.
Ive noted that Phoenix Life has accepted that it made an error by: not letting Mr R know 
about the change in age when hed be able to take his benefits;  not updating its records  to 
show the amended  retirement age; continuing to send annual  statements showing Mr Rs 
retirement age as being 50; and sending Mr R a Retirement Pack shortly before he turned 
50 to let him know about his upcoming retirement  options. Furthermore,  it is disappointing  to 
see Mr R was told about this in a rather terse four-line letter from Phoenix Life. This is very 
poor customer service.
Mr R had expected  and planned for taking his benefits when  he reached 50. Hes told us he 
wanted to take the benefits  as a lump sum. Im conscious that Mr R has asked  that the 
benefits from his PPP should be paid now. But I dont think  its reasonable to ask Phoenix 
Life to break  pension rules. Phoenix  Life isnt responsible for Mr R not being able to retire at 
50, but it is responsible for not letting him know earlier that the retirement  age had increased.
So what  I need to consider is the impact on Mr R of thinking he could retire at 50 when in 
fact he couldnt.  Mr R says that, in anticipation of receiving the benefits from the PPP,  hed 
upgraded his car at a cost of £12,000. Hed also planned to reduce working by one day a 
week. To cover the cost of the car upgrade Mr R has increased his mortgage by £500  per 
month instead. He also says he wont  be able to reduce his working hours. So Mr R says he 
has to make considerable adjustments to his working pattern for the foreseeable future, he 
wont be able to semi-retire, and has had to take on additional borrowing. 
Ref: DRN79329784From what  Mr R has told us, it seems  to me he intended to spend the lump sum of nearly  
£12,000 on upgrading his car. Id asked Mr R to let me have details  of the interest rate and 
interest payments  for the additional borrowing hed taken out to fund the upgrade to his car. 
Id considered this as a possible way of compensating Mr R for the extra cost of the 
borrowing hes incurred as a result of Phoenix Lifes mistake. Mr R said:
He has a flexible  mortgage with his mortgage  provider. So he didnt need  to apply to 
borrow the extra funds.
He didnt know how much additional  interest the further borrowing incurred.
Hed been making overpayments for a long time in order  to pay off the mortgage  early; 
he said the £12,000 be borrowed was essentially taken from the credit hed built up on 
his mortgage account by the overpayments.
He also said that, following  the extra borrowing, he continued paying the same amount 
each month and later re-mortgaged when purchasing a new property.
Based on what Mr R has been telling us its not been possible to identify any specific  extra 
costs Mr R has incurred. I appreciate Mr R says he was intending to also make adjustments  
to his working pattern, however I havent seen  any evidence  to fairly say this was definitely  
the case. Once nearly £12,000  had been spent  on the car, there would have been no 
additional money left from the lump sum to fund semi-retirement. 
Ive considered the inconvenience and loss of expectation Mr R has suffered because of 
Phoenix Lifes mistake. Ive noted that Phoenix Life has offered £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused  by its error. And in these  particular circumstances I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable amount.
So to put things right I think  Phoenix  Life should  pay Mr R £300 compensation which  it had 
previously offered.
Responses to my provisional decision
I am very grateful to Mr R for replying so promptly to my provisional decision. It has been a 
great help in bringing this matter to a conclusion. Mr R said:
He was disappointed with my recommended  outcome.
He pointed out that he had been told for 20+ years that he would be eligible  to take his 
pension pot on his 50th birthday. And hed been sent information asking him how he 
would like to proceed with the funds  a few months before his 50th birthday.  Had he not 
been told this, he probably wouldnt have upgraded his car with those promised funds.
He feels he has been treated  very badly by Phoenix Life. In his view it has provided a 
terse non-apology and a derisory £300 compensation for a clerical error. This 
wouldnt have been necessary if Phoenix  Life had done its job more thoroughly in the 
first instance.
This has put him in a difficult financial situation as well as not being able to amend his 
working hours until his 55th birthday,  and Phoenix  Life would continue to take annual  
servicing charges  from the account.
He sought  reassurance that any compensation would include these additional charges 
as well as the £300 compensation that was already offered
He was most upset  about the principle  in this case; Phoenix Lifes processes led him to 
believe he was entitled to a lump sum. It also asked him how he wanted to take the lump 
sum  and then pulled the rug from underneath him.
Ref: DRN79329785my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything  again  
including Mr Rs response to my provisional  findings  Im satisfied with the conclusions  set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Although I have upheld his complaint, I appreciate the outcome Ive reached is likely to be 
disappointing for Mr R, particularly as I recommended a different resolution  to that of the 
investigator.  
Ive thought about what Mr R said in his response to my provisional decision and noted how 
strongly he feels about the principle in this case. I can understand his depth of feeling about 
what has happened and Phoenix Lifes customer service. But its not for this Service  to 
punish business for its mistakes;  we arent  the regulator. 
Ive also considered what Mr R said regarding the service charges for his plan. Im not 
convinced it would be fair to make  an award to cover these  charges.  Had Phoenix Life 
informed Mr R about the change in legislation  and the change  in age for taking his pension  
benefits  as it should have done   Mr R would be in the same position  that he is now and 
service charges would  be applied  to his plan.
I acknowledge that Mr Rs expectations about  the ability to access his pension were  raised  
and that hes left disappointed. However,  I remain satisfied that the compensation of £300 is 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Phoenix Life 
Limited is to pay Mr R the £300 compensation it has offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020
Geoff Pearson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7932978