K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Metro Bank PLC didnt  tell Mrs B it would cancel her card when 
she reported fraudulent activity on their account. 
background
Mrs B has had a number of problems  with her Metro Bank account.  It started  when she 
reported fraudulent  activity on her card to the bank. It didnt tell her until the end of the 
conversation that it would cancel the card and she would have to wait for a new one. This 
left her without any money to pay for important  appointments. Two replacement cards  Metro 
Bank sent to her failed for various reasons and she had real difficulties making  important 
payments. She says the bank  has been  abusive, aggressive and unhelpful.
Mrs B later called the bank to find out why she was overdrawn and during  that phone  call 
she had a panic  attack about  how she was going  to get home. The bank credited her 
account with £100 but it later took it back.  She says she was vulnerable at the time and 
didnt agree to this. Now Metro Bank  has said its going to close  her account.  This means 
she wont be able to pay her rent and she and her husband will be homeless. 
Metro Bank  apologised for the customer service it gave Mrs B when she first called to report  
fraudulent activity on her card. But it couldnt explain why the PIN for the first replacement  
card wasnt  printed on the letter it sent her. It apologised for the non delivery  of the second 
PIN although the fault seemed to be with the courier. Mrs B wanted Metro Bank to pay the 
cost of her taking cabs because she couldnt  use her contactless  card on the bus. It said it 
wasnt prepared to do that but it paid her £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
It said itd transferred £100 into Mrs Bs account to help her but itd explained to her at the 
time that this would be debited out of her account as soon as her salary was paid in. It told 
us itd closed Mrs Bs account  because of the breakdown of their banking relationship and 
said it was entitled  to do that in in line with its terms and conditions.  
After listening to the phone calls between Mrs B and Metro  Bank  our investigator thought  
there were failings with its customer service  but said the £150 itd offered Mr and Mrs B was 
fair and reasonable. And he thought Mrs B couldve made other arrangements  to get to her 
appointments so he didnt  think  Metro  Bank  should  cover her taxi fares.  And from the phone 
calls Mrs B had with Metro Bank  he was satisfied itd explained to her that the £100  it 
transferred into her account would be debited without further notification.  And during the 
phone call shed confirmed she understood this. He didnt think Metro Bank had done 
anything wrong  when it closed Mr and Mrs Bs account. He was satisfied it was entitled  to do 
under the terms  and conditions of their account. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with his opinion. She said that she didnt receive a closure notice, she 
wasnt aggressive, shes now unemployed and she and her husband are now homeless. And 
she says Metro Bank sent the police round to her house. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. 
Ref: DRN78612042I am very sorry  to learn of all the difficulties that Mr and Mrs B have faced over the last few 
months. And I can see that our investigator  has given Mrs B details of various organisations 
they might  like to approach to help them both in the situation in which  they find themselves. I 
know she was reluctant to do this initially  but she may like to reconsider. If so and if she has 
lost the details of those  organisations our investigator can send them to her again.
Mr and Mrs Bs difficulties  began when she reported  fraudulent activity on her card. She 
wasnt aware until the end of the phone call that Metro Bank would cancel her card and 
issue her a new one. The bank apologised for not making this clear at the beginning of the 
pone call but said this wouldnt have made any difference.  Once  a customer has reported 
fraudulent activity on their card and account  it will cancel the card.  Thats standard  banking  
practice in this situation and I cant find Metro Bank was wrong to do this.
There were various problems with the replacement cards and PINs it sent to her. I can 
understand how frustrating that was for Mrs B but I cant  see that Metro Bank did anything 
wrong. It responded  positively to all the phone  calls Mrs B made to it and I think it tried to be 
as helpful as it could be in trying  to ensure she had a replacement  card and a PIN to use 
with it. 
Metro Bank  could see there were other forms of transport available to Mrs B to get to her 
appointments so I can understand why Metro Bank says it wont pay the more  expensive 
option of taxi fares. Its paid her £150 as a gesture  of goodwill. I think  thats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
During the course of the phone calls Mrs B had with Metro Bank it decided that its 
relationship with her had broken down.  It sent a Notice to Closure letter  to her current 
address on 21 February 2019. She says she didnt receive it but I cant find Metro Bank 
responsible for any failings of the postal  service. Under its terms and conditions  Metro Bank 
was entitled to end its banking relationship with Mr and Mrs B. Mrs B said she wasnt 
aggressive but Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for Metro Bank to decide its banking  
relationship with Mr and Mrs B had broken  down.   And it gave them  the necessary notice 
before it closed their account. I appreciate Mrs B says they didnt receive it. But Im satisfied 
Metro Bank  sent it to the correct address.  
Mrs B said Metro Bank sent the police round to her address. But Im satisfied that this was 
after a difficult phone  call when the bank became worried about her safety  and welfare. So I 
cant fairly find it did anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861204