K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Ms B was given three loans by Mr Lender between May 2013 and June 2016. Loan 3 
remains outstanding  and a summary of her borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 31/10/2016 20/01/2017 3 £200.00 £100.81
2 20/01/2017 03/02/2017 6 £500.00 £203.33
3 20/02/2017 outstanding 6 £200.00 £78.13
At the time of writing  this decision, there is an outstanding balance on loan 3. 
Ms Bs complaint has been looked at by one of our adjudicators. They didnt  think 
Mr Lender had been wrong  to give loan 1 to Ms B. But they did think  Mr Lender shouldnt  
have agreed to lend from loan 2 onwards because the repayment costs for loan 2 was a 
significant portion  of Ms Bs income.   
Mr Lender disagreed and said Ms B had enough  disposable income to cover  the costs  and 
the amount she had remaining would  have been  enough to cover  any emergency  costs. 
As Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view, it asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
So, the complaint it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN77146222the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Our first adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed  to do more  before it lent loan 1 to Ms B. 
Ms B hasnt disagreed with either of the adjudicators findings,  so I wont be making any 
further findings on this loan because  it no longer  appears to be in dispute.  But Ive kept the 
loan in mind when thinking about the overall  borrowing relationship  between  Ms B and        
Mr Lender. 
Having carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint, Im partly upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Lender says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Ms B and the results of these 
checks didnt raise  any concerns. But as this loan was taken out on the same day as Ms B 
repaid loan 1, was for a larger amount which was being repaid over a longer period, I think 
Mr Lender should  have been  looking to build a clearer  picture about Ms Bs finances  before 
lending to her again.  
Had Mr Lender carried  out proportionate checks before  lending  loan 2, its likely to have  
found that Ms B was borrowing from other short-term lenders  and these were  increasing her 
monthly outgoings. 
In addition, the repayments for loan 2 were over £200 a month,  which Ms B would have 
been repaying from her declared monthly income  of under £800. The repayment amount 
represented a significant proportion of Ms Bs income and I think  Mr Lender ought to have 
realised that there was very real potential of Ms B struggling to meet  her commitments  under 
this loan. Given Ms Bs income and borrowing, it seems there  was a significant chance  of 
her having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in her 
finances. I think this was shown to be true, when  just over two weeks  after repaying loan 2 
early, Ms B borrowed again and there remains  an outstanding  balance  on this loan.  
So, Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint about  loans 2 and 3. 
Ref: DRN77146223putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Ms B loans 2 and 3.
If Mr Lender have sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy it back if Mr Lender is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender are not able to buy the debt 
back, then Mr Lender should  liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined  
below.
A) Mr Lender  should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Mr Lender have  already  refunded.
B) Mr Lender  should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made  by 
Ms B which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally  made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on the upheld  
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms B as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Ms B having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender  should  then refund the amounts calculated  in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B. Mr Lender  
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  Mr Lender have already written-
off.
E) Mr Lender  should remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Bs credit  file in 
relation to loans  2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct  tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should give 
Ms B a certificate  showing  how much  tax Mr Lender has deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN77146224my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Bs complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7714622