K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund  some  disputed transactions.
background
Mr D contacted Nationwide  on 23rd December 2018 to report  that he had lost the card for his 
account.  The card was cancelled and he was told a new one would be sent out  but not to 
expect it before 3rd January 2019  due to the Christmas break.
On 8th January, having not received  his card, Mr D contacted  Nationwide  again.  He  was told 
a new card had in fact been issued following the call on 23rd December.  As Mr D had not 
received this, the second card was cancelled and a new one issued.
But Mr D was also told that the second  card had been used to withdraw money  from his 
account at various  branches of Nationwide in the city in which  he lived.  His balance  of just 
over £6500 had been  withdrawn in its entirety. 
When Mr D complained, Nationwide told him it was holding  him liable for the withdrawals. In 
its final response it told Mr D that it considered he had authorised  the withdrawals.
So, Mr D brought his complaint to this service.  He told us he had not received his card and 
knew nothing about the money  taken from his account.  He thought his card might have 
been intercepted  in the post.   And  he explained  the credit of £6500  into his account,  shortly 
before the disputed  transactions,  had come from the sale of a car.
In Nationwides  submissions to this service,  it maintained its stance that it was holding  Mr D 
liable. It relied on the following in support:
-the account had only been  opened  a short time and Mr D had received a large credit.  
It questioned how a fraudster would know that;
-Mr D had last used  the card on 12th December  2018 so it questioned why it had 
taken him until 23rd December to report the card lost;
-the signature on the withdrawal slips matched  a genuine signature;
-CCTV images from one of the disputed withdrawals looked like Mr D;
Our investigator looked into matters for Mr D and questioned Nationwide  further.  Based on 
the information provided to him, he thought Nationwide  should  refund the money to Mr D and 
pay him £200 in compensation  for the distress it had caused.
Mr D agreed to this outcome but Nationwide did not.  It asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for very much the same reasons.
Nationwide is entitled to hold Mr D liable for these transactions if the evidence shows,  on 
balance, that he authorised them.   But authorisation is a two stage test.  Not  only does 
Nationwide need  to show the transactions were  authenticated   it also needs  to show Mr D 
consented to them.
Ref: DRN71880172Based on the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied they were  authenticated simply on the 
basis that the magnetic strip was used.  But I dont think Mr D consented to them for the 
following reasons:
-Mr D has provided evidence  as to the provenance of the original credit  into his 
account.  I know Nationwide dispute  this  but I dont agree with that view.  So, my 
starting point is that I am dealing with a credible witness;
-the first two attempts  at withdrawing  money over the counter were  for £2000 and 
£1950 respectively.  Both were refused because the customer did not have sufficient 
identification.  However, a few hours  later, at a third branch, £1800 was successfully 
withdrawn.  In fact, the attempts and withdrawals  following on from this all followed a 
similar pattern   to the point where Nationwides own staff member  records  concerns 
that its policy of authentication is not being adhered to;
-following the first attempt to withdraw  £2000, a note is place on Mr Ds file to say an 
attempt had been made  to withdraw money  without sufficient  identification.  It doesnt 
seem to me that the cashier on the third attempt took note of this;
-I dont believe the signatures on the withdrawal slips of the disputed  transactions 
matches that of Mr Ds original signature;
-I dont believe the CCTV  image  of the fraudster matches an image  Mr D has provided  
of himself.  Nationwide failed to provide a sample  for comparison so this was the only 
image this service had;
-I think it is entirely plausible  that Mr Ds card was intercepted  (possibly by someone  
he knew) and used  to make these  withdrawals. I dont think it is plausible that Mr D 
would pretend  he had not received his card and try to go into branch himself  to make 
the withdrawals.
So, I will be asking Nationwide to refund his money   and to pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society needs  to do the following:
-refund  £6502 to Mr D;
-pay interest at the rate of 8% from the date of the withdrawals to the date of 
settlement;
-pay £200 compensation for the distress caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188017