K820x#14complaint
Mr T isnt happy that Aviva Insurance Limited  wont renew his car insurance policy due to his 
age.
General Accident were involved in the administration of Mr Ts original policy,  but Aviva set 
the criteria for who theyll insure, so theyre responsible for the complaint.  For simplicity, Ill 
just refer to Aviva throughout the decision.
background
Mr T received a notice  to say Aviva wouldnt renew  his car insurance. They explained this 
was because of their underwriting criteria but didnt  give any further  details.
Mr T complained through us  saying he felt the reason for the decline was due to his age, 
and this was discrimination.  Mr T was 81 at the time of renewal. We got in touch with Aviva 
and asked them to consider a complaint.
Aviva didnt send a full reply to Mr T, so he asked  us to investigate  his complaint.
Our adjudicator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Avivas website, under the heading of who we cover, says theyll  insure drivers 
between the ages of 17-80
this applies to new and existing policies
by turning 81, Mr T no longer met Avivas  underwriting criteria
its reasonable for Aviva to set their own criteria, and as its a business decision,  we 
couldnt compel them to insure  someone
Mr T didnt  agree. He said he doesnt accept a multinational company can disregard the laws 
of the UK. And he gave us a certificate to show hes passed a further driving  course. 
Because of this the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint,  which I know will come as a disappointment to Mr T. Ill explain why.
Aviva have set out their criteria which explain theyll only offer insurance to people between 
the ages of 17 and 80. Mr T was 81 at the age of renewal. Because of this, Im satisfied he 
didnt meet Avivas  underwriting criteria  for renewing his policy.
Aviva is a commercial business  and theyre entitled to decide which  customers they want  to 
accept and can consider age as a rating factor in deciding who they wish to cover and the 
risk theyre prepared to accept. Age isnt a protected characteristic within  the insurance 
industry.
All insurers decide which type of risks they do and dont want  to cover. And provided they 
havent done this in an unlawful or unreasonable way  or against  the rules  set by the FCA  
theyre entitled to.
Ref: DRN73422252Ive not seen any evidence that Avivas decision not to renew Mr Ts policy was unlawful or 
unreasonable but I can understand  how frustrating it was. Im pleased  though  Mr T was able 
to get cover  elsewhere  and so this hasnt  affected  him significantly.
Mr T has sent us a certificate to show he passed a further driving test. But I dont think  Aviva 
are questioning Mr Ts ability to drive  safely, rather theyve made a commercial  decision not 
to offer policies to any policyholder over the age of 80. For the reasons I mentioned above, I 
dont think theyve acted  unfairly when not renewing Mr Ts policy.
my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7342225