K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund money that she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.  
background
Ms M signed up to an online dating  agency. She was contacted by someone,  who turned out 
to be a scammer. I understand that from January 2017 Ms M was in regular contact with 
him. She says she was led to believe the scammer worked for a shipping  company that did 
business in many different places around the world.  In March 2017, the scammer asked for 
the first of a series of payments to be made to help him out of difficult  situations. 
Below is a table of the payments and what they were supposedly  for:
£10,000 from 
Executors account  to Ms Ms Club 
account ending  
4460to Ms Ms Classic  
account ending  
4023to the scammer   
2 March 2017 - £10,000  the scammer was stuck in South Africa and needed to load a 
ship with cargo to Cyprus.  However, there had been an accident  and some people were  in 
hospital, he needed £10,000  as couldnt afford a lawyer as he hadnt  yet been paid. 
£50,000 from Lloyds  
loanto Ms Ms Club 
account ending  
4460to Ms Ms Classic  
account ending  
4023to the scammer
30 March 2017 - £50,000  the scammer had been in a bad car accident and had put 
three people  in hospital. He had his passport taken from him and needed to pay £50,000 
for damages  and hospital fees.  Ms M took a loan out through Lloyds to fund this. 
11 April 2017  30 March 2017  transfer returned  as the account  was invalid - £48,745.98
11 April 2017 - £48,745.98  branch transfer  to the scammer
£10,500 from 
Executors account  to Ms Ms Club 
account ending  
4460 to Ms Ms Classic  
account ending  
4023to the scammer
20 April 2017 - £10,500  scammer told Ms M he needed one final payment of £10,500 
for insurance  costs.
£41,500 from late 
fathers account with 
another bankTo the scammer
11 May 2017 - £41,500  the scammer was on his way to the airport  to meet  Ms M. He 
never arrived but called her to say he had been  incarcerated and would be held in a 
detention centre for two weeks. The money was sent to help free him.
£60,000 from Ms M to Ms Ms Club 
account ending  
4460to Ms Ms Classic  
account ending  
4023to scammer
22/23/24 May 2017 - £60,000 sent in three  payments as the payment couldnt be sent at 
once due to system limitations. The scammer asked  for a further payment to get a flight  to 
Cyprus to unload the ship and to cover duty costs. These payments were stopped by 
another bank  and she was contacted by that bank  on 30 May 2017. It was at this point Ms 
M realised  she had been the victim of a scam.   
Additional information about events during the course of this scam are as follows:
Ref: DRN79231572A loan agreement was made between Ms M as the lender, and the scammer  as the 
borrower for £60,000. The loan agreement was made on 29 March 2017. It was 
subject to interest of 8.5% - 20% to be decided by the borrower. The loan was to be 
repaid by 21 April 2017.  The agreement was governed by internal laws and was 
made valid in all countries worldwide.  
Ms M says she was provided with a bank  statement showing the scammer had funds 
of approximately  £2 million with a high-street  bank and so she says she didnt see 
any risk in lending  the funds. Ms M says she no longer has a copy  of this statement. 
Ms M says she researched the scammers lawyer, but she no longer has that 
information as her computer needed  to be wiped after it was hacked.  She recalls  
receiving emails  from the lawyer and when she researched the law firm, she didnt 
find anything untoward.   
Ms M cant  recall why she found  the scammer  credible at the time, just that she did 
so, and she had a strong  desire  to help him. 
Ms M says she didnt find anything unusual  in the requests for payments to be sent to 
different accounts  in different countries. 
The payment  of £41,500 sent on 11 May 2017, was sent from another bank  and is 
not subject to this complaint. 
The £60,000 sent to the scammer  in May 2017 was stopped  by another  bank and 
returned to Ms M. 
I understand the £10,500 sent to the scammer  in April 2017 was recovered by 
another bank  and returned to Ms M. 
The transfers on 2 March, 30 March and 22 May 2017, were  all initially stopped by 
Lloyds fraud detection systems  and were  subsequently made following  verification 
and further discussion  with Lloyds (more about  this can be found in my findings). 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 February  2021, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint.  Lloyds  hasnt  responded, so I have assumed it has nothing  further to 
add. Ms M doesnt agree with the outcome reached. In summary, she has said:
She cant believe the case worker got this so wrong and it appears the ombudsman 
has been heavily  influenced by fresh matters raised by Lloyds.
She doesnt believe Lloyds did enough to investigate inherently suspicious 
transactions and doesnt believe the issue has been  sufficiently scrutinised. 
She was advised  to come to us by the police and she would have thought those  well 
experienced in investigating fraud  would carry considerable weight and explain why 
she was so profoundly  deceived. 
Specialist police officers found poor banking practices at banks, including the lack of 
due diligence  and failure to carry out even rudimentary ID checks before  opening  
accounts that a fraudster was able to use to defraud her. She also refers to a recent 
headline about the regulator investigating another bank for breaching money 
laundering regulations. 
She would  not have  lent any money to the scammer if she hadnt believed the lies; its 
self-evident the more  sophisticated the scam the more easily people will be duped. 
She doesnt understand why the other account holder should have been  invited  to 
join the complaint,  the lack of their involvement  is irrelevant  to her banking 
arrangements. 
The bank  ought to have taken sufficient  steps  to investigate given its knowledge of 
her, fraud, and the amounts involved. 
Ref: DRN79231573Her occupation has no bearing on the actions of the bank. She considers her job 
irrelevant and doesnt accept this provision  is relevant to the discharge  of Lloyds 
obligations to any customer. 
There is a related point over alleged contributory negligence over her belief the 
scammer was good for the money.  She is well aware people suffer cash  flow 
problems or have difficulty accessing their funds on demand  or in an emergency. 
She is criticised for ticking  miscellaneous and says if this is viewed as lacking 
precision what box should she have ticked and shouldnt Lloyds have made further 
enquiry?
She rejects any imputation on her honesty, any failing on her part is evidence of a 
confused and emotional response to a plea for help from one she truly believed  was 
in need. She notes  the ombudsman referring to her being under a spell.  
When a matter is referred to me, I consider it afresh. That means  I may,  or may not, agree 
the outcome reached by an investigator is fair and reasonable. If I disagree, then a 
provisional decision is issued setting out why Im minded to reach different conclusions  and 
to provide the parties with an opportunity to present  any further evidence or arguments for 
consideration. 
Much of what Ms M has argued in response to my provisional decision had already been 
explained in my provisional findings.  As such I havent been  persuaded to alter my findings 
and I make my provisional decision final. In doing  so, I will respond to her points below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to make clear here that my consideration is solely in relation to whether  or 
not Lloyds did enough when Ms M was making  the transactions she did. I cant  consider any 
complaint she has about  whether banks have  carried out sufficient due diligence when 
accounts have  been opened that have enabled  scams to take place. So although Ms M has 
made submissions about money laundering requirements and due diligence, they arent  
relevant to my consideration of whether Lloyds could, or should, have done more to stop Ms 
M making the payments  she did. 
I explained in my provisional findings  that the payments made on 2 March and 20 April 2017 
ultimately originated  from an executors account that is held by Ms M and another executor.  
Ms M questions the need to join the other  executor to the account. 
As explained, the loss of those particular  funds has been incurred by that account and not 
Ms M solely. That the other executor isnt involved in Ms Ms banking arrangements isnt the 
issue.  Its because any decision I make about those funds not only affects Ms M but also the 
other account holder; and the decision of whether to accept  any outcome in relation to those 
funds is for both account holders to make not just Ms M. It is for that reason we asked Ms M 
to join the other party. Ms M didnt wish to ask the other party  to join  which is of course her 
right  but she was also unable  to provide anything to support  that the funds were gifted to 
her or left to her as previously submitted. In the absence of such evidence,  I remain of the 
view it isnt appropriate for us to consider  those  particular transactions  as not all eligible 
complainants have joined the complaint. 
Ref: DRN79231574Because of that, and because some  funds had already been returned  to Ms M, my 
consideration was limited  to the Lloyds  loan and subsequent transfer  to the scammer  of 
£50,000. When doing so, I took into account  the wider picture and what, on balance,  we 
knew when deciding this complaint.
Ms M has made a few comments about  being  the victim of a sophisticated scam. But that 
has never been in dispute   all parties  to this complaint, and me as the deciding  
ombudsman, accept  that Ms M has been  scammed. But that alone doesnt  mean  she is 
entitled to be reimbursed by her bank. That all depends on whether the bank did any thing 
wrong  that is, could  it have done any more  to prevent the scam from taking place or 
intervened such that Ms M would have become  live to the scam and stopped  sending  
money. It also depends on whether Ms M is responsible, in any way or in any part, for her 
losses. 
I found there wasnt any dispute that Ms M authorised the payments out of her account  to 
the scammer. The scammer  deceived her into believing  a relationship  had been formed  after 
being in contact with her for a few months. She was told he worked in shipping which took 
him all over the world.  This had led to an air of plausibility when the scammer  later needed 
funds for various things  including the loading and unloading of a ship,  such that Ms M found 
him credible. 
The payments from Ms M were authorised even though she was the victim of a scam. She 
either used  her security  credentials to request payments online, or she went  to branch. So, 
although she didnt  intend to get scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(which applied at the time) and the general  terms and conditions of bank accounts,  Ms M is 
presumed liable in the first instance.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules  and guidance, any relevant codes of practice  
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time, I considered Lloyds  
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
As can be seen from the brief summary  of what the payments were supposedly for, the 
scammer had told a series of stories in order to gain financial help from Ms M. It appeared 
the stories involved more than one accident,  several people  hurt and an urgent and 
desperate need  for large sums of money in a very short  space of time. Had the last 
transaction been successful Ms M would have sent the scammer  over £170,000.  I thought 
most would agree that was a very large  sum of money and Ms M was sending that to 
someone, as I understood it, that she had never met in person. 
Ref: DRN79231575We asked Ms M to explain to us what she found credible about the scammer, particularly 
given the stories she was told and the continual need for funds. I understood and accepted  
this happened  a few years  ago and so exact  recall was unlikely. But Ms M initially didnt 
engage with us about this, instead  arguing  about what the bank should and could have 
done. Eventually, Ms M told us that she couldnt  really explain what  she found credible about  
the scammer  and the series of events, just that she did, and she wanted to help.
Ms M has said she has been criticised for allegedly not answering the question as to why 
she believed  the scammer, but she answered  in the only way anyone  could  that she found  
him wholly plausible.  When  someone falls victim  to a scam, this type of question  is asked as 
it helps us get to the bottom of what happened and, more importantly, why. Asking questions  
helps us to understand why a scam was successful and what was credible  and plausible  
about the situation presented. Someone not engaging with our legitimate enquiries isnt 
helpful for our investigation. I nevertheless accepted  that Ms M couldnt really  shed any more  
light on why she found the scammers stories  credible and took that into account, alongside 
the other evidence, some  of which I thought ought to have alerted her to something not 
being right.  
Ms M entered into a loan  agreement  with the scammer on 29 March 2017 for £60,000. I 
considered the content of the so-called loan agreement and there  were  clauses within  the 
agreement that I thought  Ms M ought  to have had cause to question. 
There was reference  to the governing  laws  the agreement  said it would be construed in 
accordance with and governed by international laws,  and that the agreement was made valid 
in all countries worldwide. I thought this ought  to have struck Ms M as odd, particularly as 
she works in the legal profession herself,  albeit in a different  field.  International laws are 
those which  govern relations between nations, not loan agreements. And I wasnt aware  of 
any agreement that was valid in all countries worldwide simply because it said so; a loan 
agreement is usually  governed by the laws of one particular jurisdiction, such  as England 
and Wales. As a legal professional, I didnt  think Ms M needed any particular expertise in 
loan agreements to see there was something  not quite right. Had she thought  about  it more 
carefully, I thought  she would have realised something wasnt  quite right and discovered  that 
the address listed  for the borrower didnt exist with that house  number and post code (as per 
Royal Mail). 
Ms M has said she has been criticised for allowing or not correcting reference  to 
international laws and she is being penalised  more severely than others  because  of her legal 
profession. Ms M doesnt believe  her job is relevant  nor does it discharge a banks 
obligations to its customer. 
I have never  made the finding  that Ms Ms profession means a banks obligations are 
discharged. But I equally dont think its fair to simply ignore someones profession, 
particularly if it has a part to play in the matter  at hand. Ms M was presented with a legal  
document. And as a legal professional she would have more knowledge than a layperson in 
legal matters. I remain of the view that had she given more thought to the agreement, she 
ought to have realised something wasnt quite right. 
At the time of granting this loan to the scammer, Ms M said she was sent a bank statement 
showing he had funds  of over £2 million. As a matter of common  sense, I thought  this 
begged the question of why the scammer  needed  to borrow funds at all from Ms M. In her 
submissions she said the account was held with a well-known high-street bank and he would 
repay the loan when  he was able to access the bank in person. But I questioned  why he 
Ref: DRN79231576would need to go to the bank in person to access funds. I knew  in a call in May 2017, Ms M 
told Lloyds the scammer  had had his bank card stolen,  but I found  that shouldnt  have 
prevented him from accessing his account  before  that or at all, either by telephone  or online, 
or if that wasnt possible why he couldnt  borrow the funds from his bank; particularly as it 
would have known  he was good for repayment.  Given the substantial funds Ms M said the 
scammer had, I thought  this also ought to have alerted her to something being wrong.
Ms M has made reference to being  aware  of people  having cash  flow problems or difficulty in 
accessing funds  on demand or in emergencies. I think Ms M may be missing the point Im 
making. I fully accept people have cash  flow problems and that money  might  be hard to 
come by quickly.  But that doesnt explain  why Ms M thought  she was the only avenue by 
which funds could be obtained. If a person has £2 million in the bank,  even if they have 
trouble accessing  it, a bank would know they are good for repayment, so this still raises the 
question of why if money  was genuinely needed it couldnt have been borrowed from the 
bank itself. I remain of the view the purported existence of these funds ought to have alerted 
Ms M to something being amiss.  
Although I found  there was evidence that ought  to have  caused Ms M to question the 
situation she was in, I considered whether Lloyds could, or should, have done  anything more 
to help prevent  Ms M falling victim  to a scam. 
As set out, I only considered the loan Lloyds granted and the subsequent transaction to the 
scammer. That said, I felt it relevant to point out that Ms Ms first payment to the scammer 
for £10,000 was stopped by Lloydss  fraud  prevention systems, so it did intervene at that 
point, although  the payment was ultimately  sent.  
Ms M applied for the Lloyds loan on 28 March  2017  online. When  doing so, she didnt 
complete the purpose of the loan, choosing a miscellaneous  option.  Ms M has argued that 
she has been criticised  for completing the loan application this way. I havent criticised  Ms M, 
it is merely a statement of fact  she applied for a loan and chose the miscellaneous  option  
I offer no opinion about this, one way or the other.  
The following  day Ms M attempted to send the payment to an account held in America. This 
transfer was stopped by Lloyds fraud prevention  systems  and her account suspended. 
Ms M called Lloyds to get her account reinstated. During this call, Lloyds told her the 
payment had been stopped as it had a higher than usual risk of being fraudulent.  She 
explained she had taken out a loan the previous day to pay legal costs.  Lloyds  read out a 
script of various fraud methods, including pretending to be the bank, or a broadband  
provider, to receiving  messages over social media from people pretending to be friends or 
family that needed  help (amongst others). Ms M was asked if she was concerned about 
anything she had heard,  but she told Lloyds she was satisfied it was genuine.  Lloyds also 
asked:
Can you confirm this payment was requested  by you without any instruction from a 
third party?  
Ms M replied  yes, yes. 
However, I didnt think that was true. Ms M had been contacted  by the scammer and had 
been told hed been in an accident and needed funds to cover hospital  fees and damages. 
So she had been asked to make the payment by a third party,  although this might  have been 
Ref: DRN79231577in the context of borrowing the money. I also noted  that I thought this could also arguably 
come under the fraud  example of being  asked to make a payment by friends or family. Had 
Ms M answered  this question honestly, that might have prompted further questions from the 
bank. 
Ms M questions whether something  being  arguable is a proper  basis for any finding of fact. 
Again I think Ms M is missing the point.  Lloyds had stopped the payment as it thought  it was 
fraudulent and it asked  her questions,  but I didnt think  she wasnt  honest  in her response.  
My primary reason  for finding  that wasnt in relation the being asked to make  a payment by 
friends or family, but that she had clearly been  asked to make a payment  by a third party   
the scammer  - but she didnt tell the bank that. 
Later during the call, Lloyds asked  Ms M to confirm the payment was for legal fees which 
she did. It asked further questions about  whether she was sending  the payment directly  to 
the law firm and whether she had spoken to them verbally about the payment (this prompted 
another script to be read about hijacking email accounts of law firms). Ms M confirmed that 
to be correct. However, again, that wasnt strictly true. Although  the payment was required in 
part for damages it was also required for hospital  fees. 
Despite knowing the payment had been stopped because it looked fraudulent, and this was 
the second payment that had been stopped (and conversely  also the second payment to the 
scammer), Ms M made it clear she wanted  the payment to be sent. She didnt  answer the 
banks questions honestly or in full, leaving out details of what  the scammer had told her (the 
full picture didnt come to light until Ms M reported  the scam). By not doing  so, in the 
knowledge the bank thought the payment fraudulent,  I didnt think she had helped  the bank 
to help her. 
Ms M has argued  the bank should  have done  more to stop the payments being sent. But this 
isnt a case of the bank  doing nothing to intervene  and simply following Ms Ms payment 
instructions. Rather  the bank had stopped the payment before it was made, likely because it 
was a lot of money and was unusual for the account and so it looked  fraudulent.  Ms M 
wasnt entirely honest with the bank in her responses to questions asked, despite knowing 
why the payment had been  stopped. Based on the answers she gave,  Im not persuaded 
there was more the bank could have done. 
I nevertheless considered  that if the bank had done  more, such  as question Ms M about the 
purpose of the legal fees, whether that would  have uncovered the scam and I think didnt it 
would have done, or broken the spell for Ms M. 
I said this because of the content  of a call which took place on 22 May 2017, when Ms M 
was attempting  to send £60,000 to the scammer. That payment had been stopped and the 
account suspended as Lloydss fraud  prevention system had been triggered  again. Ms M 
was asked what the payment was for. She told the bank her partner was stuck in Cyprus  
and needed to unload cargo from a ship, but duty needed to be paid and hed had his bank 
card stolen; she was therefore  lending him the funds needed  to cover that. She also spoke 
of her frustration as they wanted the ship unloaded  so her partner could come home.
In particular, I referenced  Ms Ms description  of the scammer as her partner. I accepted 
relationships came  in all guises and this may very well have been how Ms M viewed the 
scammer. But I thought  reference to partner reasonably  suggested something more  than 
only having met someone online  particularly when Ms M spoke of him coming home. So I 
found that even if the bank had asked more  questions about the legal fees during the call of 
Ref: DRN7923157829 March 2017,  I thought  Ms M would simply  have said her partner had incurred legal fees.  I 
didnt think Ms M would have shared any more detail than that; or that she would have 
volunteered that she had met him online and I didnt think there was a reasonable line of 
questions the bank could have asked  which would have uncovered that. 
In support of my finding  was the remainder of the call with Ms M on 22 May 2017.   What she 
told the bank then was far from the full picture  as she reported  it when  notifying  the bank of 
the scam.  She left out that the scammer  had been  incarcerated and held in a detention 
centre and he needed  a flight to Cyprus to unload  the ship  hence the need for £60,000. 
And she was again asked  if she was making  the payment under instruction from a third party 
and she again  answered no, even though I thought she was. 
The events the scammer  gave  to Ms M  accidents and an urgent need  for funds for various 
reasons  are a hallmark of romance scams. Ms M was clearly under  the scammers spell 
such that she believed  what  she was being told. Throughout her dealings with Lloyds during 
this matter she hasnt  told the full story and hasnt  answered questions honestly.  So even if I 
agreed with Ms M that the bank should have  intervened further in the loan and subsequent 
payment, I dont find her position would be any different to what it is now  I dont think  
further questions  from the bank would  have prompted responses from Ms M that would have 
helped uncover the scam. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to find the bank is to blame  
for what unfolded. It follows that Im not asking the bank to reimburse the transactions I have 
considered, and I make no award against  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7923157