K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Miss O complain that they were not asked about  their circumstances when they 
opened their joint packaged bank account  with The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) and lost 
out as a result. And they say their bank account  was left open for years  with no transactions 
other than the monthly account  fee occurring; and then closed and put into default without 
their knowledge  or agreement.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr M and Miss O opened  a joint Smilemore account  before 2011. After 2012  there  was a 
credit balance on the account, but they say neither of them  used the account.
In 2018, the account balance had gone into overdraft  caused by the continuing debit of the 
monthly account fee. Co-op then closed  the account and put it into default.  And the default 
has appeared on Mr M and Miss Os credit files.
Mr M and Miss O say they werent asked at the time of sale if they had another  packaged 
bank account  and they say if they had been asked, they would have  chosen  a fee free 
account instead.
Mr M and Miss O say they were not kept informed about the Smilemore account  and it was 
closed and put into default  without  them being notified.
Co-op says Mr M and Miss O took out the account  online and so it was for them  to check  if it 
was suitable for them.  And Co-op says it sent letters notifying  them  and warning them of 
both the account closure and the subsequent  default.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr M and Miss Os complaint and so it has come to me to 
consider.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
When Mr M and Miss O opened their Smilemore  account, both parties agree this was done 
online. I would normally consider online sales to be non-advised sale, by which I mean  Co-
op didnt advise Mr M and Miss O on the account or recommend it to them.  And Ive seen 
nothing in the circumstances of this case for me to look at this sale any differently. So, I think  
its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale and hence the only requirement on Co-
op was to provide  Mr M and Miss O with enough  information to make  an informed decision.
In my view, this provision  of information  would not have to include checking  with Mr M and 
Miss O if they had another packaged  bank account. It was for Mr M and Miss O to consider 
whether the Smilemore  account was suitable  for them or not based on the information  that 
Co-op provided. So, I do not uphold Mr M and Miss Os complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN77081072Ill next consider  what happened on the account.
Mr M and Miss O seem  to have  been using and maintaining their Smilemore  account up until 
2012. And then due to changes in their circumstances they stopped  using it for transactions  
but neither of them closed  it. And Co-op has no record of them  requesting it be closed  at any 
time.
Co-op says that its business practice for Smilemore accounts was to send statement 
notifications to the customers by email  and it has provided records  of the email addresses  to 
which they were sent.
I think its more likely than not that these were  sent and received at least  by Mr M as he is 
still using the same email  address today that he registered when he was using  the account. 
And I think its more likely than not that Co-op wouldve known if either  email  address wasnt 
working as their emails  wouldve been returned  undelivered.
So, I think at least Mr M was aware  the account  was open, and that monthly  fees were being  
taken, and the benefits were available to them both to use. And I note that Co-op  has a 
record of Mr M contacting it in April 2018,  before  the account was closed or put into default,  
showing that he was aware of the account  being open at that time.
I can see nothing in the terms and conditions of the Smilemore account  that requires Co-op 
to close the account in the circumstances that occurred  over the years.  So, I dont think  Co-
op did anything wrong in allowing the account  to remain open  until 2018.
However, when the account closure  notification  and the default  notices  were  sent out, Co-op 
only sent them out by letter. These letters went to the latest address Co-op had on record, 
but those addresses  were  no longer  correct  for either of them, and they didnt  receive them.
I accept Co-ops point that it was Mr M and Miss Os responsibility to keep their postal  
address records with it up to date.  But in this case Co-op describes Smilemore as an online 
account. It had up to date emails addresses  at least for Mr M and it says it had used them  
regularly for communication. So, I think it would have been  appropriate  for Co-op  to contact 
Mr M and Miss O by their email addresses  as well as by letter  for the closure and default 
notification, especially when they received no response to their letters.
I think its more likely than not that if Mr M and Miss O had received email  notification,  they 
would have taken  action to settle  the small debt,  close the account  and avoid default.
So, I dont think Co-op needs to refund any account fees. But to put things right, I think that if 
Mr M and Miss O quickly  move to settle their outstanding debt,  then their credit files should  
be changed to remove the entry that they defaulted  on their Smilemore  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr M and Miss O did not add anything further.
Ref: DRN77081073Co-op responded to say that it believed it had issued the account closure notification and 
default notices  in compliance with the relevant regulations which  require correspondence by 
letter. 
Co-op also says that Mr M had not opened or responded to previous electronic 
correspondence, so it doesnt believe he wouldve responded  to the account closure 
notification or default notices either.
Ive considered Co-ops submissions carefully,  but they havent changed my view. I say this 
because whilst I can accept that Co-op  complied  with the relevant regulations, in my view it 
would have been fair and reasonable to use the email address it held for him as well in the 
circumstances of this case.  And I think a suitably addressed  and titled email that drew his 
attention to what was about to happen  to the account would have  caused  him to act as he 
did shortly after when  he realised his credit file had been affected.
So, my conclusions remain  as outlined in my provisional findings above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr M and Miss Os complaint; and provided Mr M and 
Miss O settle their debt to The Cooperative  Bank Plc within three  months from the date of 
this decision, I require The Co-operative  Bank Plc to change Mr M and Miss Os credit  files 
to remove the entry  that they defaulted  on their Smilemore account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7708107