K820x#14complaint
UV, a limited  company, is seeking to recover £6,500  from HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) 
which was stolen from its business banking account  as a result  of a third-party  scam.
The owners of UV, Mr H1 and Mr H2 are bringing  the complaint on its behalf. But as the 
complaint has only been  represented by Mr H1 , I will, in the main, only refer to him 
throughout.
What happened
The facts  of this case are well-known to both parties  so I dont intend to set them  out 
in detail again here. However, I will summarise as follows:
On 26 September  2018, UV was the unfortunate victim of a scam.  Whilst dealing with 
clients Mr H2 received a phone-call from someone purporting to be from HSBCs 
fraud team who needed to discuss some suspicions transactions  on their business 
banking account.  The caller was calling from a telephone number that appeared to be 
the same  as HSBCs. Being busy with a client, Mr H2 asked the person (who  we now 
know to be a fraudster) to speak with his book-keeper who usually managed  the 
payments on the account. 
During the following conversation, UVs book-keeper was persuaded to generate  and 
share some secure key codes generated on Mr H2s secure key device   which  
ultimately allowed  the fraudsters to set up and make payments from UVs business 
banking account  unbeknown to UVs book-keeper. She thought  she was generating 
and authorising new internet banking details. However, a new payee was set up and 
£6,500 transferred from the account.  A further  payment was also attempted the next 
day but this was blocked by HSBCs  fraud monitoring system. 
During a conversation with HSBC the next day, it became apparent  that Mr H2 and 
UVs book-keeper had not been speaking to HSBC and UV had been the victim of a 
scam. HSBC got in touch with the receiving bank but it was later confirmed that UVs  
funds had been removed from the payee account.  
In its final response letter,  HSBC said that the payment that left UVs account  had been  
authorised using Mr H2s security details  and secure  key device. Because  of this, it didnt 
feel it should be held liable for UVs losses. Unhappy with HSBCs response,  Mr H1 brought 
a complaint on behalf of UV to our service.
Our investigator looked into UVs  complaint and didnt uphold  it. She thought that UV had 
failed in its obligations to keep its security  details safe  by sharing them with an 
unauthorised third-party  the book-keeper.  And if these details had not been shared, it 
wouldnt have been possible  for the payment to have been  made.  She also didnt think  
there was anything about the payment itself that meant HSBC  shouldve questioned Mr H1 
and Mr H2 about  it before it was allowed to leave their business banking  account. 
Mr H1 on behalf of UV disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He said HSBC had been 
informed that UVs book-keeper was authorised to make payments from the account, via an 
account manager, a number of years before and if this had not been  noted on HSBCs  
systems, he wasnt  aware and this was not UVs fault. Mr H1 pointed  out that the second 
Ref: DRN74765342attempted payment from the account  was blocked and queried why the first wasnt too  he 
stressed that this was a high value payment for the account and was being made to a new 
payee. The book-keeper had thought they were  speaking  to HSBC due to the spoofed-
number and finally, at the time the scam took place, there was a £5,000  transaction  limit 
applied to the account and therefore a transaction  of this value should  not have been  
processed on UVs behalf. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the opinion 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under the Payment  Services Regulations  and the terms and conditions  of its account, 
UV has an obligation to keep  its security information safe. But by sharing  its secure  key 
device and the keycode needed  to operate it with an unauthorised third-party, in this 
case UVs book-keeper, I am satisfied it has failed in these obligations. And this has 
ultimately led to the payment being  processed from its account. I appreciate what  Mr H1 
has said about the book-keeper being persuaded she was speaking with a genuine 
representative of HSBC due to HSBCs  number being spoofed, but ultimately  it was the 
sharing of the secure key device and key-code that allowed the new payee to be set up 
on the account and the payment made.  
Ive also thought carefully about  what Mr H1 has told us about  UVs business relationship 
manager being aware the book-keeper would  be authorising transactions  on their behalf 
and therefore  her having authority to do so. Mr H1 tells us this conversation happened 
many years prior and there is no record of this conversation or any formal  agreement in 
place with HSBC  that gave UVs book-keeper authority to transact  on the account. I dont 
doubt Mr H1s recollection, but I think it unlikely that HSBC  would approve unauthorised 
access and use of an account by an unauthorised third-party. To do so would break  the 
terms and conditions  of the account  and leave it open to potential fraud. As it stands, Ive 
seen no evidence to show me the book-keeper  was formally permitted to act on the 
account. And so Im satisfied that UV has (with intent) failed in its obligations  to keep its 
account safe by sharing its secure key and corresponding security  information with her. 
And it would  not now be fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC liable for its loss.
Mr H1 has queried why the second attempted payment from the account  was blocked 
and the first wasnt. I dont know why the first was blocked and the second wasnt but I 
think it most likely due to the fact that the second payment was the second high value 
transaction attempted to a new payee  in a short space  of time. It was also for a higher 
amount than the first. As this can sometimes be an indicator of fraud,  I think  its more 
likely than not that it was these factors that meant HSBCs  fraud monitoring system was 
triggered. This stopped the payment leaving UVs account and this ultimately  stopped UV 
losing any further funds. 
I dont think it follows that just because the second transaction  was blocked  the first 
should have been  too. As Ive said above,  the second transaction  was different to the 
Ref: DRN74765343first and had some characteristics that could have been an indicator of fraud.  I 
acknowledge that the £6,500 payment was somewhat higher in value than the typical  
activity on the account. However, I also have to bear in mind  that this is a business 
account. And it is not unusual for business  accounts to make occasional  large one-off 
payments to new payees as a result of having to support  the running of their business. 
So I dont  think the value of the payment and the fact it was made to a new payee is 
enough, in this particular case, for me to fairly say it should have put HSBC  on notice 
that UV might be falling victim to a scam  and the payment shouldve  been blocked.
I also asked HSBC  to confirm the transaction limit that was applied to UVs  account at 
the time the scam payment was made. HSBC has confirmed that the transaction  limit 
attached to the account amounted to £20,000  not £5,000.  And so I cant agree with Mr 
H1 that UVs transaction limit should have  meant  the payment was stopped  either.
When taking all the above into consideration, Im not persuaded the payment was so 
unusual or suspicious  that HSBC ought to have intervened, in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  before the payment was processed.  And I dont think  it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to now say it should be held liable for UVs losses.  
Finally, I want  to say how very sorry I am to hear about the situation  that Mr H1 and Mr H2 
have found themselves in. I understand the impact  this cruel scam  must  have had on their 
business and I know this is a lot of money for UV to have lost. But I cant  say UVs loss was 
caused by any specific failing on behalf  of HSBC and so I cant fairly ask HSBC  to refund 
them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2, 
on behalf of UV, to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7476534