K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Santander UK Plc has asked them  to confirm their personal  
details.
background
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Santander  sent them a form asking them to confirm  some 
information. They say this is unfair  as theyd provided it four years  earlier  in relation to other 
product. They  also say Santander  has unfairly  restricted their accounts  and theyve been  
caused stress. They want the account  restrictions lifted, an apology  and compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
We arent a regulator and cannot  fine or punish  a bank or require it to change  its 
procedures. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs P asking  for information to ensure  their accounts 
were up to date. It says this was required to carry out its regular legal and regulatory 
checks. Thats reasonable.  Even though Mr and Mrs P were long time customers of 
Santander it was reasonable for it to ask them for up to date information.
Santander also sent a number of communications asking for the information and 
warning that if not given it would restrict the accounts. It gave plenty of notice of this. 
After restricting the accounts it unrestricted them for a two week period towards the 
end of 2018. Santander has acted  reasonably.  
Mr and Mrs P dont  agree and have asked for an ombudsman review.
Santander confirmed  that as at 4 February 2018  there were  no blocks on Mr and Mrs Ps 
joint savings and current accounts nor on Mr Ps individual cash ISA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Santander says it asked for more information from Mr and Mrs P to ensure it held up to date 
information on them. And it says it did this as part of its legal  and regulatory  checks.
Even though  Mr and Mrs P were longstanding customers and mayve supplied similar 
information in the past,  I think Santander  was acting  reasonably.
It also sent them a number of communications asking for the information and warned that if it 
wasnt received their accounts may be restricted.  Mr and Mrs P had adequate warning of 
what would  happen  if they didnt provide what Santander was asking  for. And it wouldnt 
therefore be unfair or unreasonable for Santander to subsequently  restrict their accounts.
Even so Santander  confirmed in early February 2019 that there were no blocks  on their 
accounts.
Ref: DRN72945252Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Santander asked them  for information. But as the adjudicator 
has said we arent a regulator. We cant  fine or punish a business or require it to change  it 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Overall I dont think Santander has done  anything  wrong. And I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably require it to apologise or pay any compensation as Mr and Mrs P would  like. And 
I dont see any reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294525