K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy  premiums,  held with 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 February  2020. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and my provisional  
findings. Broadly  summarised, I didnt uphold  Ms As complaint as I hadnt seen anything to 
suggest that RSA had increased her premiums  unfairly.
RSA responded,  agreeing with my provisional  findings. 
Ms A disagreed providing further comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has replied  to my provisional decision in detail. Ive carefully considered her testimony, 
and Ive broken  down  Ms As reasons  for being unhappy into two main  areas  of concern. 
First, Ms As concern about the information RSA has provided to this service to show  its 
reasons for the premiums  increasing and second;  Ms As concern that RSA, by not telling 
her about  any better deals, wasnt treating  her fairly.
I will deal with each of these issues in turn.
the evidence RSA provided
Within my provisional decision I explained  that RSA had now provided more information  
about its reasons  for Ms A premiums increasing. I explained that I wasnt  able to share this 
information as it is commercially sensitive. 
Ms A is unhappy the information cant be shared. She says RSA, by classing the information  
as commercially  sensitive, is trying to use a loophole to prevent it from sharing the 
information. Ms A considers  as the information relates to her and her property  it should 
be made known to her. 
I do understand Ms As frustrations and can understand why she is unhappy,  especially as 
the complaint  has taken  so long to reach this stage. 
Ref: DRN75481292RSA, when it provided its file to this service about Ms A complaint initially,  submitted 
information about Ms As pricing journey.  The information included  Ms As application  form 
for the home  insurance, details of the policy itself,  the premiums  she was charged 
throughout the policys duration and the renewal documentation that was sent. RSA also 
explained the reasons for the increases in Ms As premiums. It explained that the price 
changes were as a result of changes in its rates and claims inflation.  
Our investigator thought that, while  RSA had said there were reasons for the increases, they 
hadnt seen any evidence supporting its argument. So they upheld  the complaint. They 
werent satisfied RSA had provided enough information to show Ms As premiums didnt 
increase just because  she hadnt  engaged  with her renewals. 
RSA then provided further information.  I do understand why Ms A thinks its suspicious that 
RSA provided evidence, when it initially didnt. But RSA is entitled  to provide information at 
any point, while a complaint is still ongoing, to support its side of things  the same  would 
apply to Ms A. And having reviewed the information, Im satisfied its genuine.
Ms A is unhappy the information cant be shared. She considers, as the information relates 
to her and her property,  it should be disclosed to her. 
Having the complaint go on for long time, and with further evidence only recently coming  to 
light, I can certainly understand  Ms A being frustrated that she cant  have  sight  of the 
information. But the information, while it does  relate  to her policy, goes further than this. Its 
not just about  RSAs  assessment of risk for Ms As individual property   some of it would  
also apply across the whole book of policies that are the same  as Ms As. 
With home insurance (and most  insurance policies in general) the way the policy works is 
that if the book  of people  insured make lots of claims,  that will increase the cost of the 
premiums overall for all of the policyholders. But it also means that if an individual  
policyholder has made  a lot of claims or a made a very large  claim,  the impact  on their 
premium would be less than it would otherwise be. 
Within a book  of policyholders  there  may have been  a spike  in claims in a particular year for 
example  flood  damage, escape of water or a spate of burglaries that meant the insurer has 
had to pay out more in claims than it predicted. An insurer  then takes these factors into 
account when  looking at the potential  future  risk for this book of policyholders.  
So while Ms A may not have made many claims or any large  claims  it isnt just the risk of 
insuring her property that is taken  into account  when RSA calculates the premium. There are 
lots of other  factors involved.
The information RSA has now provided  has helped us understand how it assessed  how 
likely it was, in general terms, that someone would need to make a claim, as well as the 
specific risk of insuring Ms As property. This information is commercial sensitive, and RSA 
has provided it to this service in confidence, to help answer the complaint. I can accept 
information in confidence where I consider it appropriate and, in this case,  I think  it is 
appropriate to accept the information RSA has provided.
I know Ms A, as the complaint has been  ongoing for so long and as she hasnt had sight of 
the information, will ultimately remain doubtful of what  RSA has said. But Im satisfied RSA 
has provided evidence  to support its argument that Ms As premiums werent increasing just 
because she wasnt engaging with the cost of her policy  at each renewal. 
Ref: DRN75481293So it follows  that I remain of the opinion that RSA hasnt treated Ms A unfairly.
RSAs obligations
Within my provisional decision I explained  that RSA, throughout the duration Ms A held her 
policy, wasnt obligated to either  automatically switch  Ms A to another policy or tell her about 
any alternative products  it offered. 
I explained the new rules introduced by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, in 
2017 only went as far as to say that insurers should,  in the renewal  invitation,  encourage 
their customers to shop around  if theyve  had their policy for a number of years.  
Ms A, following my provisional decision says RSA is hiding behind this legal loophole  which 
allowed it to not tell her about any better  deals.  Ms A says while  RSA may not have legally 
been required to tell her about  other  products it offered,  it would have been  the fair thing for 
RSA to do. Ms A feels very strongly about this.
I do understand where Ms A is coming from. Businesses treating their customers fairly is an 
overarching principle that applies across everything. 
In this case, I think RSA has treated Ms A fairly. It has treated her the same as any other 
policyholder with the same policy. And in its role as an insurer,  I dont think it would be fair to 
say RSA should need to make sure someone  (or all of its policyholders) has the cheapest  
policy available.  
Put simply, Ms A took out RSAs policy. So RSA need to make sure it treated her fairly in 
respect of that policy. It didnt have to make sure Ms A got the best  deal year on year.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75481294Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the increases on her home insurance policy premiums,  held with Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
Ms As home insurance policy with RSA started in January 2001. The policy  included  buildings and 
contents cover. There were  also some optional extras (Personal Possessions cover and Freezer 
Food cover) taken out. The policy  also included  Legal Services cover. It initially cost £406.08 for the 
year. 
Ms As policy automatically renewed  each year, and she didnt engage  with the cost of the insurance 
at renewal until 2015. The policys cost increased gradually over the years. In January  2015,  Ms As 
annual premium was £794.52. She cancelled the policy  in 2015 following  a call with RSA and ended  
up taking out another policy with RSA. It cost around £300 per year. 
Ms A complained  to RSA because of the difference in price between  the two policies. She considered 
she had been treated  unfairly and had been overcharged for many years. 
RSA reviewed Ms As concerns. It said the premiums she was charged over the years were  correct. 
But as Ms A had been  a loyal customer, RSA waived the first years premium for her new policy. Ms A 
accepted this, on the condition that she could still have her complaint reviewed by our service.
As Ms A remained unhappy with RSAs overall response, she referred the complaint to our service. 
Ms A felt RSA should have done more for her over the years. She says she was a loyal customer and 
thought she was getting the best possible price each year. She also considers RSA should  have 
contacted her when there was an alternative cheaper policy.
A number  of people have looked  at Ms As complaint. Most recently, our investigator thought  her 
complaint should be upheld. She thought it was clear Ms A hadnt engaged with the renewal  of her 
policy each year. And based on the information available, there didnt seem to be any risk related 
reasons for the premium increasing. 
RSA disagreed, and provided more  information about the cost of Ms As policy over the years and 
details about why the premium had increased. It said the increases werent because  Ms A wasnt 
engaging with renewal. 
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I currently dont think Ms As complaint should be 
upheld. I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Ms A, so Id like to explain why.
I do understand why Ms A thinks  she has been overcharged  throughout  the years she had the policy. 
From 2001 until 2015 the policy had doubled in price  and Ms A was able to get a new policy for much 
less than she was paying previously. But the price increasing over the years and Ms A being  able to 
get a cheaper  alternative policy, doesnt necessarily mean RSA has done anything wrong.  
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in effect 
determining or telling  a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at 
whether RSA treated  Ms A fairly throughout the time she held her home  insurance  policy with it. 
Ref: DRN75481295An insurer isnt necessary  doing anything wrong by changing  the premium each year at renewal  this 
can happen  for a number of reasons. For example,  an insurer will regularly  review how risky it thinks it 
is to insure a particular property and if it thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase according  theres nothing  wrong with this. 
So its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy  to increase or decrease when it renews each 
year. But because  most policies automatically renew, a customer who doesnt shop around or 
negotiate the price of their policy regularly,  may find theyve  been paying  more  than they might have 
been had they taken out a new policy   either elsewhere or with the same  insurer.
Where an insurer knows, or ought to know, its customer isnt shopping around or getting  in touch to 
discuss their premium, it should take care to make sure its treating  that customer fairly. And it should  
make sure it doesnt take advantage  of the situation by increasing their premiums beyond  a fair and 
reasonable point, just because they didnt  engage with the cost.
Our investigator thought this had happened  in Ms As case. She thought  it was clear  Ms A hadnt 
engaged, and the premiums  had steadily increased  each year. And based on the information 
available at the time,  there didnt seem  to be any risk related  reason for the increase in cost.
I agree Ms A didnt contact  RSA about the cost of her insurance for many years. But RSA has now 
given us a lot more information about how it decided  how much to charge Ms A for her policy. Im 
afraid I cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but I would like to assure  Ms A Ive carefully 
considered what RSA has provided.
From what Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Ms As premiums unfairly.  It has shown 
there were changes in its rates, its view of the risk of insuring Ms As house and its understanding of 
future likely claims. These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase  the premium. Theres nothing to 
suggest RSA was charging  Ms A more for her insurance, just because shed had her policy with it for 
a long time and wasnt engaging with the renewal cost.
Ms A ultimately got a cheaper  policy with RSA. But this doesnt mean RSA had been overcharging 
her. Insurers  use different pricing and risk models over time,  so a policy taken out in 2001 wont be 
priced the same  way as a different product  taken  out many years later.  Also, the insurance market  
has become  ever more increasingly competitive  and new policies generally include new customer 
discounts, to attract new customers.  These will be recouped over the subsequent years to make the 
policy commercially viable. I dont  think this is unfair.
So I dont think it is fair to compare the policy Ms A initially took out in 2001 with the revised insurance  
product RSA introduced  many years later.
Ms A thinks RSA had an obligation, as she was a loyal customer, to switch  her to the alternative 
product, or at the least tell her about the alternative product, when it became available. I understand 
Ms As frustrations, but RSA wasnt a broker   whose  obligations were  to shop around each year for 
its consumers. RSA provided an insurance policy   and many years later introduced another product 
 that was different  to its existing  one. Theres no requirement for RSA to automatically switch its 
existing customer base on to the new policy  indeed, this might not be right for all customers.
There are now rules  (that were introduced  in 2017) that say insurers  should, in the renewal invitation,  
encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number of years.  These 
didnt exist when Ms A had her policy  with RSA and even if they had, they dont go as far as to say 
insurers need  to tell their customers about alternative products. So I dont  think  RSA needed  to tell 
her when the new product was introduced.
summary
RSA has shown that the increases in Ms A premiums were for risk related reasons and the increases 
werent because Ms A wasnt  engaging with the cost. 
Ref: DRN75481296While Ms A obtained a cheaper  policy with RSA  for the reasons Ive explained  above  it doesnt 
follow that RSA had treated  her unfairly during the years  she held her previous policy. 
All things considered, I havent seen anything  to suggest that RSA increased  Ms As premiums  
unfairly.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7548129