K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Indigo  Michael  Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit lent irresponsibly.  
background
The agreement between Mr A and Indigo  Michael was a running account credit  dated 
9 April 2016. This type of credit meant a consumer could either request funds up to their 
credit limit, or funds  would  be deposited  into their nominated bank account once their 
account balance  fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  There was 
the option for the customer to make  manual withdrawals. The obligation  on the customer  
was to repay at least a minimum  amount each month  covering the interest  and some of the 
principal. 
A feature of the facility  was that if the consumers bank account  balance dropped below a 
pre-set amount then Indigo  Michael  would transfer money into that account to keep it above 
a certain balance. This was used to avoid  straying into an unauthorised overdraft. Or if the 
pre-set limit was set to avoid going  beyond the limit for an authorised overdraft then the net 
effect was the same   avoidance  of unauthorised  overdraft fees and charges.
Indigo Michael says that it carried out checks with a credit bureau for Mr A and was able to 
analyse his transactional history from his bank account debits and credits  Mr A had to give 
it read only access to his bank account  and it analysed the 90 day period leading up to the 
approval date. 
The initial credit limit for Mr A was set at £400  raised  to £430 on 21 May 2016, a few weeks  
later. Records I have  from Indigo  Michael show that after taking and repaying several 
drawdowns, from August  2016 he drew down no more. Mr A repaid the account regularly 
from August 2016 and it was at a zero balance in May 2017 and so he used the facility  for 
about 4 months  and after that repaid the debt.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that the facility  should never 
have been approved for Mr A. Indigo Michael  disagreed and some  of its points are that
a) it conceded that the net monthly salary  for Mr A was £1,950;
b) said Mr As disposable income on its own calculations was £580 a month;
c) it had calculated what Mr A could pay on his initial  loan amount of £400, which  would have 
been £528 (Interest = 400 x 0.8% x 40 days).  Split over 3 months, this would require a 
payment of £176  per month;
d) it pointed  out some  misinterpretations  of the Indigo Michael  credit  search  results  and 
sought to correct those;
e) it referred  to persistent  debt  provisions to assist in its defence of the complaint: 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit  account was offered.
Ref: DRN79929862The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit  of this kind at the 
time Mr A applied. And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook of rules  and 
guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needed  to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says,  The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
In practice this all means that a lender should gather  enough information for it to be able to 
make an informed decision on the credit limit being  offered. Although  the guidance and rules 
themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list several things a lender could 
consider before agreeing  to lend. The key element was that any checks  needed to be 
proportionate and had to consider several different things, including how much was being 
advanced and the credit limit set and whether it could be repaid within a reasonable time.
The persistent debt provisions to which  Indigo  Michael refers  did not come into force  until 
after Mr As account had been repaid and closed. So those are irrelevant for this complaint.
I have used the all the records sent to us by Indigo Michael, Mr As personal credit file and 
reviewed the 90 day period leading up to the approval of the credit facility  on 8 April 2016.
I have seen some details which I have chosen  to set out in a table here and are rounded  
figures:
Month 2016 Credit card  
repaymentsPayday loan 
repaymentsDebt collection  
January £481 £327
February £445 £792
March £721 £1033 £1
And I can see from Indigo Michaels  records sent to us that it had calculated  those same 
figures for Mr As credit card spend  during that 90 day review  period. And it had noted  that 
he was in some sort of debt repayment  plan at £1 a month from March 2016.  And it had 
noted this same level of payday loan payments and the increased sums spent on them  
during that 90 day period. 
Ref: DRN79929863There have been  a number of figures used in relation  to the mortgage  cost to Mr A. His 
personal credit file tells me that he took a 15 year secured loan (mortgage) at £681 a month  
from December 2007. And that the repayment  terms had increased  in November 2015 to 
£702 and around January 2016  to £852  then later in 2016 it had reverted to around  £702. 
So, I think that during  some of that 90 day review  period Mr As mortgage commitment likely 
was a substantial  one. And Indigo Michaels  correction  to some of the adjudicators use of 
the credit  search  results included this point: 
the value of £926, quoted as total monthly  payments due on his mortgage, is 
actually total monthly  repayments  on any fixed term accounts, similarly the value 
quoted as £224 is not total monthly repayment  on other fixed term active accounts, 
it is Total  monthly payments on any fixed term accounts which  are active,  for 
accounts within sector 1. This means  these values are not separate,  and the £224  is 
included within the £926, so they cant be considered as two separate payments.
And this fits with the sums  I have  seen of £702  for the mortgage cost and £224 to make 
£926. 
Mr As bank  account records from Indigo  Michael  reveal the usual utilities  and council tax, 
car and insurance  expenditure.  There were  many transfers during that 90 day review period. 
Some of these were to other people (about £1,100) and about £280 to a person with whom 
he appeared to have  had a financial connection. I think that some of these transfers  may 
have been to pay for the mortgage but I do not know for certain. 
Indigo Michael was aware of these figures. On an income of £1,950, considering  those 
repayments for sector 1 plus the payday loans plus his normal living expenses then it would 
appear that Mr As expenditure  exceeded  his income. And that is before I have added in the 
cost of repayments to credit cards. Mr As payments to his credit cards  increased  over that 
90 day review period leading to the April 2016  approval; and he entered  into a debt 
collection arrangement  at £1 a month in March 2016; and his payday loan commitments had 
tripled. The overall picture was of one of Mr A getting deeper into debt. 
That picture, added to the history of his extensive use of credit in the past (revealed in the 
credit search results  from Indigo Michael), all points  to Mr A not being in a position to repay  
this fresh  credit over a reasonable time. Indigo  Michael has calculated the notional sum to 
have been around £176 a month.  
I refer to this provision in CONC  which was in place at the time: 
CONC 5.3.1 (8) For a regulated credit  agreement for running-account credit the firm, in 
making its creditworthiness assessment
(a)should consider  the customer's ability to repay  the maximum amount of credit 
available (equivalent to the credit limit) under the agreement within a reasonable period;
(b)[omitted here]; 
(c)should not use the assumption of the amount necessary to make only the minimum 
repayment each  month.
Indigo Michaels assessment of Mr As disposable income was miscalculated and as such  
the test to be able to repay this type of credit  within  a reasonable period  was not made  out 
as Mr A was not in a position  to repay  the credit.
Ref: DRN79929864And for additional  debt to be approved for him by Indigo Michael was wrong, as I think it 
would have increased Mr As risk and his ability to meet  repayments  under a regulated 
credit agreement in a sustainable  manner  without the customer  incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
I uphold Mr As complaint  and Indigo  Michael needs  to put things  right for Mr A. 
how to put things right
As my decision is that the credit facility  ought  not to have been  approved  from the start, then 
Indigo Michael needs to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on the Safety Net facility 
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr As credit file about this 
facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo Michael to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax was deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and Indigo  Michael  Limited should put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7992986