K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc have declined her home  insurance  policy  claim 
and it has wrongly described  her claim as fraudulent.
When I refer to AXA, that includes any agents  it might have appointed to investigate the 
claim.
background
Mrs S started a home insurance policy with AXA in 2018. Later that year Mrs S claimed on 
her policy following a loss of items in a burglary at the insured address, her home.
AXA investigated her claim  and concluded  that she had exaggerated  her claim by reporting  
the loss of an item she didnt own, and wasnt in her home, at the time of the burglary. It 
declined her claim and cancelled the policy in accordance with the policy condition. This 
says it will not pay for any claim that is in any way fraudulent  or exaggerated and ...we 
will cancel the policy and we will not refund  any premiums.
When Mrs S complained to AXA, it sent her their final response saying that it didnt  uphold  
her complaint, and that she had breached a policy condition by exaggerating her claim.   
Mrs S complained to us. An investigator agreed with AXA,  and didnt uphold her complaint. 
He said that Mrs S hadnt been able to explain  why she submitted a receipt  for an item she 
didnt own, and listed it on her claim as an item stolen  in a burglary.
Mrs S didnt agree with his view, and her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  I will explain why. 
AXA is relying on a fraud  clause in Mrs Ss home insurance policy  that allows it to refuse a 
claim where it believes the loss had been exaggerated. If it wants to rely on that clause,  then 
I think its fair for it to have to show the loss was exaggerated.
In support of her claim, AXA asked Mrs S to give it a list of the stolen items and purchase 
receipts. One of the receipts, dated  28 March 2014,  was for a ring. Mrs S had written on the 
receipt 4 APRIL  Returned. AXA asked Mrs S what she meant by writing  that. She told it the 
ring had been returned to the seller,  but it was replaced soon  after. AXA asked for the 
receipt for the replacement ring to show  it she did actually have a replacement  ring, but she 
hasnt provided  it. 
AXA asked her for the receipt several times  over a number of weeks. And eventually  Mrs S 
told it that she hadnt had the ring replaced, but had received a refund instead.  She didnt 
have a receipt because she didnt own the ring after she returned  it to the seller. 
Mrs S has explained to us that shed made an honest mistake by including  that ring in her 
claim. But I can see Mrs S had written and signed a statement  on 3 September 2018 which  
lists the ring as one stolen  from her home in the burglary. And that shed allowed AXA to 
Ref: DRN73450022process her total claim including this ring. Nearly  four weeks had passed since  the burglary 
when Mrs S wrote her statement of stolen  items.  Shed had that time to accurately check  
what her loss was. I think it was clear to AXA that Mrs S intended to claim for this item, and I 
think it acted fairly  when reaching  that decision.
Mrs S had a responsibility to give AXA accurate  information about the items lost in the 
burglary, but she didnt.  
Under the terms of the policy- the policy wording booklet, policy conditions section 10- I 
believe AXA is entitled to decline  the claim and cancel the policy without returning any 
premiums. This condition says it will not pay for any claim that is in any way fraudulent  or 
exaggerated  and ...we will cancel the policy and we will not refund any premiums.
And it has also correctly recorded  that Mrs S has breached this fraud clause in her policy.
Ive seen that AXA has established that Mrs S exaggerated her claim. And that it has done 
nothing unfair by declining her claim and recording it as a breach of a fraud  clause in the 
policy.
I will not be asking AXA to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7345002