K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Zenith  Insurance plc handled  his claim for the repair  of 
his car following an accident in June  2017, which wasnt his fault. He said in addition  to the 
poor body  repairs  and the lack of manufacturer parts used, the delays and/or the repairer 
caused his diesel particulate filter (DPF) to fail. 
background
Mr Gs car is a high-end  diesel model  of a prestige make  of car, which he said he insured 
specifically with Zenith given its marque policy. In the accident,  his car sustained  some 
bodywork damage  and the light was broken. He made a claim to Zenith  who agreed to cover  
the repairs. He then drove it to Zeniths  nominated repairs  and left it to be repaired. 
Unfortunately, the repairs took a significant amount  of time of around five weeks and Mr G 
believed they were badly done  with non-manufacturers paint being used, which invalidated 
his bodywork warranty. Further the DPF failed  when Mr G drove  the car away from the 
repairers putting his car in limp mode and consequently barely  driveable.  There were also 
issues with the courtesy  car provided.
Mr G complained. Zenith agreed the repairs were  substandard and offered to pay Mr G 
£1,236.33 as a cash in lieu settlement in line with his estimate. It said the DPF was nothing  
to do with the accident or the repairers, so it wouldnt agree to fix that. It said the delay in 
repairing his car was due to waiting for manufacturer parts  to be delivered. But it agreed 
there were some delays  so it offered to pay him £200 compensation.
Mr G didnt agree, most especially as regards the DPF. This is because he later found out 
the repairer had someone look at the DPF, whilst  his car was still in their care being  
repaired. He also saw that the car had been  driven 75 miles and had used 140 miles worth 
of fuel.
As he remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to us. Ultimately, the adjudicator  thought 
Zenith should progress  the rectification repairs as soon as possible. However, he didnt 
recommend Zenith should do anything about the DPF. He also thought  Zenith should pay 
Mr G a further £300 compensation. Zenith agreed and paid Mr G the cash in lieu settlement 
for the rectification repairs based on his estimate.  
However, Mr G said his chosen repairer couldnt  guarantee any work because  its not known 
what parts  and paint  were  used in the original repairs and whether  they were  manufacturer  
parts and paint.  Therefore, Mr G repaid Zenith  its cash  in lieu settlement. This means the 
agreed the rectification repairs havent yet been  done. Mr G remained of the view that the 
DPF should be fixed or replaced  by Zenith. Therefore, his complaint was then passed to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2019 and said the following:
This was a relatively  simple repair claim for relatively minor  damage resulting from 
an accident. Mr G was able to drive his car to Zeniths approved repairer,  and was 
unable in practical terms at least,  to drive it back from Zeniths  approved repairers, 
after it had his car for around five weeks. 
Zenith has agreed its repairs were substandard but it still hasnt provided the relevant 
information for Mr Gs repairer to do the rectification repairs and guarantee them,  or 
Ref: DRN78010812to arrange to do those rectification repairs itself to the required  standard  again with 
the same  guarantee. I think it now ought  to do so without any further delay. It 
appears to me that the obstacle in effecting these rectification repairs is solely  down 
to what parts  and paint  were used in the original substandard repairs  and it appears 
no repairer now can guarantee their work  without  this knowledge. This information in 
known to Zeniths original  repairers and I dont consider  it reasonable that the 
rectification repairs have been delayed  by this lack of information.
I consider that if non-manufacturer parts were used  then those  parts should be 
replaced with manufacturer parts so the rest of the rectification repairs can then be 
achieved with the appropriate  warranty. If that means that the cost of these 
rectification repairs increases considerably  as a result, then I consider  the increased  
costs should be borne by Zenith.  Zeniths duty to is repair Mr Gs car to it pre-
accident standard, and considering its initial repairs  were substandard, its duty now 
is to put Mr G back in the position he should  have been in, but for its failure to effect 
appropriate repairs in the first place.
It appears both parties agree the extent of these  repairs but for the lack of knowing 
what type of parts were used in the initial repair. So I dont consider I need to 
adjudicate further on this issue.
The primary reason for an ombudsmans  decision  in this case  is to do with DPF. Mr 
Gs said his car was driving perfectly well with no warning lights when he drove  his 
car to Zeniths repairers and it was not when he drove it away  from Zeniths  repairers. 
This service does not employ motor  engineers,  were not motor or mechanical  
specialists, we merely adjudicate on the evidence before us. Its clear  however the 
accident would not have  caused the DPF to fail, but its also clear that DPFs need to 
go through their cycles  regularly so as not fail, which includes ensuring the car is 
driven for long enough and at the right speed. 
Obviously, given the repairs took around five weeks, Mr Gs car wasnt  driven 
regularly. That in my view was due to the excessive delay in undertaking these 
relatively simple repairs. For all of that time, Mr Gs car was in the care and control of 
the repairers. Therefore, I think it follows that its possible  that the DPF filter failed 
due to this delay on the basis  the car wasnt then cared for enough due to the fact it 
had a DPF and wasnt driven regularly enough to complete its cycles.  This is clear 
from what Mr G said,  as it seems that his DPF failed whilst in the approved  repairers 
when they took it to another repairer have the wheels repaired.  As the approved  
repairer then had someone  come and look at DPF. 
Zeniths independent engineer said he suspected that because  Mr Gs car was being 
repaired, his car was only started intermittently and run cold at low revs during the 
repair duration. So he didnt attribute this to Zeniths  approved repairers. But I dont 
consider that makes  sense. Zeniths  approved  repairers have a duty to look after the 
policyholders car for the duration of the repairs and this would obviously include cars 
with these DPFs too. It would be wholly unreasonable  to agree to repair cars with 
DPFs and then given  the length  of any repairs, whether justified or not, simply hand 
back every  car with a DPF, which was then likely to fail. 
In any event, Zenith agrees the repairs took too long causing distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr G. So therefore, it follows that its then responsible for any 
consequences of that delay. 
Ref: DRN78010813Given the apparent  generic issues with DPFs filters, obviously any insurers  
approved repairers,  to include  Zeniths,  would know their sensitivity in not undergoing 
their driving cycles regularly enough. And then they would also know  how cars with 
DPFs should be stored safely to ensure the DPFs dont then fail, as I assume  its 
possible to safely store  cars with DPFs, if they wont be driven  for some  weeks.
Therefore, I consider  that Zenith should now pay for the repairs  or replacement  of Mr 
Gs DPF, adding interest  of 8% simple  per year from the date Mr Gs paid to repair or 
replace the DPF to the date Zenith refunds him.
Zenith also needs to explain why Mr Gs car did 75 miles using 140 miles worth of 
fuel during its time at Zeniths approved repairers. This could have been an effort  to 
correct the failure  of the DPF given Mr Gs contention that Zeniths repairers  did have 
someone look at the DPF during the time his car was there,  but this isnt yet clear.  
That also obviously negates  Zeniths  contention that his car was only moved six 
times during the repair time-period too. That contention also doesnt seem  
reasonable, given Mr Gs car had a DPF in any event.
I dont consider Zeniths service, first to Mr G in simply repairing his car and secondly 
in handling the fall out of its inadequate  repairs to have been  fair or reasonable. It 
has agreed to pay Mr G a total of £500 compensation. Given the continual  delay  in 
allowing the agreed rectification works  actually  take place properly, due to the failure  
of Zenith  to provide coherent information about  the parts used in the initial  repair,  I 
consider it should  now pay Mr G a further £100  compensation.
I also dont consider Zenith has been fair to Mr G in relation to the DPF issue. It failed 
to consider that its delay in repairing Mr Gs car and its failure by its approved 
repairers in looking  after Mr Gs car coherently  whilst in its care might have had an 
impact on the DPF.  So consequently,  I consider  Zenith should now pay Mr G a 
further £100 compensation for this in addition. Therefore  the total compensation 
payable to Mr G considering Zeniths  handling  of his claim should be £700.
Mr G agreed with my provisional  decision.  He said in one of the final letters from Zenith it 
acknowledged the issue suffered with his DPF was a common  one. So therefore, he 
believes Zenith should have told its approved repairer.
Zenith disagreed  with my provisional  decision  and mention a file note which it created (rather 
than any letter from Mr G) which said Mr G knew his DPF was blocked  and was in limp 
mode and that he didnt  drive the car regularly. Therefore, it remained of the view that it 
shouldnt fund the repair of the DPF. It failed to comment  at all on identifying  the parts  used 
in the original repair so that Mr Gs can have the adequate initial  repairs completed with the 
appropriate warranty.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Zenith has taken its own file note out of context. This is because its clear  
Mr G knew its approved  repairers tried to fix the DPF whilst his car was in their care.  Zeniths 
complete file shows this. Mr G himself has shown  me that he was fully aware how to look 
after his DPF and that he didnt ever say he didnt drive it long enough. He specifically said 
Ref: DRN78010814his DPF would have  completed its circuit earlier that if needed when he had driven it on the 
motorway.
When he drove his car into Zeniths  approved repairers, his car was not in limp mode and 
had no issue with its DPF, as he drove  it there perfectly fine, for the bodywork to be repaired 
following the accident. When he drove  it out after such a considerable delay, it went into limp 
mode and he discovered the approved repairers  had noticed  his DFP was causing  problems  
and confirmed they had taken it to someone who tried but failed to fix it. So its clear  to me 
on the entire evidence of Zeniths file, its approved repairers knew  the issue  of the DPF 
occurred whilst Mr Gs car was in their care.
I also consider it disappointing Zenith failed to comment  on the issue of identifying  whether 
or not the material  used in its approved repairers substandard repair  (which  it admits) were 
manufacturer parts or not. And I consider it disappointing Zenith has failed to explain  the 
mileage and fuel issues, which occurred  during  the repair of Mr Gs car whilst it was in the 
care of its approved repairers. 
So I see no reason  to change the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Zenith  Insurance plc to the following:
Provide the relevant  details required on the parts and paint used in the original 
substandard repairs, so that the rectification repairs can now proceed. I think  its for 
Mr G to decide whether  he wishes to use his own repairer for this or have  Zenith do 
this. However, Zenith needs to agree the costs of this, which may have increased 
since Mr Gs original estimate  and simply fund these  rectification repairs.
Explain to Mr G how and why his car travelled 75 miles using 140 miles of fuel whilst 
at its approved repairers.
Refund Mr G the costs of the repair or replacement of the DPF adding  interest  of 8% 
per year from the date Mr G paid these  costs to the date of its settlement.*
Pay Mr G a further £100 compensation for its failure to deal with DPF from the start, 
ensuring that the total compensation payable to Mr G is £700.
*If Zenith Insurance  plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much  its taken  off. It should also give C 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78010815
Ref: DRN7801081