K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M was given  12 loans by Sunny between July 2017 and March  2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid  in six monthly  instalments but Mr M generally repaid the early loans 
within a few weeks of taking them out. Mr M has had up to four loans  outstanding  at the 
same time. When he made his complaint Mr M had outstanding balances  on three of the 
later loans. A summary  of Mr Ms borrowing from Sunny is shown  below.
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 18/07/2017 15/08/2017 £   200
2 23/07/2017 15/08/2017 £   100
3 23/10/2017 01/11/2017 £     50
4 25/10/2017 27/02/2018 £     50
5 26/10/2017 31/10/2017 £   200
6 02/11/2017 27/02/2018 £   550
7 09/12/2017 27/02/2018 £     50
8 29/12/2017 27/02/2018 £     50
9 27/02/2018 Outstanding £   100
10 07/03/2018 Outstanding £   150
11 10/03/2018 Outstanding £   250
12 13/03/2018 20/08/2018 £   100
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think Sunny had 
been wrong to give loans  1 to 5 to Mr M. But he didnt  think  Sunny should have agreed  to 
lend the remaining loans. So he asked Sunny to pay Mr M some compensation.
Sunny didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN74649362Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income,  and his 
normal expenditure. And it says it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Although 
I havent seen  the results  of those checks Im not aware of anything on Mr Ms credit file that 
I think should have  caused additional  concerns  to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier each of Mr Ms loans was repayable over a six month  period. So the 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal  
payday loan. But of course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. And at times  Mr M had a number of loans  outstanding together.  So Ive needed  to 
consider the total amount  that Mr M needed  to repay to Sunny each month.
Ref: DRN74649363I think the fact that Mr M typically  repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have 
caused some concerns  to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour  that would indicate 
that someone was facing  problems managing their money and needing  to refinance loans on 
a regular basis. So Ive also taken that into account  when  looking  at whether Sunny should 
have given the loans to Mr M.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income  hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent  about  Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been 
proportionate for Sunny  to ask him for the amount  of information that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr M asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have realised that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information he was providing  about his finances. I think it should have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ms true financial position. We asked 
Mr M for copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks  would have 
shown Sunny. He didnt  provide these  to us. So Im not able to say that better checks  would  
have shown Sunny that it shouldnt have given loan 5 to Mr M.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M I think  by loan 6 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so Sunny  should have realised  that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Ms sixth loan request in just over three months.  Each of the loans 
Mr M had taken  had been repayable over a period of six months. But Mr M regularly 
paid those loans  off far earlier than planned,  and borrowed similar amounts shortly  
afterwards. I think that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early should  have 
indicated to Sunny that Mr M was most likely having significant problems managing 
his money. 
When Mr M asked  for loan 6 he wasnt making any inroads to the amount he owed 
the lender. Loan  6 was by far the largest loan hed taken  from the lender. 
Mr M regularly had multiple loans active at the same time. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr M was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
Ref: DRN74649364I have seen that Sunny has said that Mr Ms declared income compared to his monthly  
repayment suggests these loans were  suitable. Therefore it does not accept  the loans 
provided were unaffordable. But Sunny will know from previous decisions (as well as whats  
set out on our website) that there are cases where  this service considers the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  When  a consumer borrows numerous  
loans over a long period of time, its most  likely that the loans arent being used for their 
intended purpose of temporary cash flow problems. As Sunny will have seen, the FCA made 
it clear in a recent letter to CEOs  of high cost lending firms that a high volume of 
relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns. And I think thats the 
case here.
So I dont  think Sunny should  have  agreed  to lend to Mr M from loan 6 onwards. Sunny 
needs to pay Mr M some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr M after,  and including,  the loan that he 
took on 2 November 2017. So for each of those  loans  Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loans 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 8, loan 12, and loans 9 to 11 once they 
have been fully repaid, should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If Miss M still owes  Sunny any of the principal  amounts he borrowed on loans 9 to 11, Sunny 
may deduct these  from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, those 
outstanding balances should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr M has made on those loans as though  they were applied  
against the principal sums borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint  and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7464936