K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has recorded a 
claim on industry databases when they only made  an enquiry about  whether they had cover  
for a faulty oven.
background
Mrs R has been the main correspondent  on this complaint, so Ill refer mainly  to her for ease  
of reading.
Mrs R contacted RSA to say her oven was tripping  the electricity  in her home. She wanted 
to know if she and Mr M were covered for this under  their home insurance policy. It turned 
out that the oven was faulty and fairly  old, and RSA said it wasnt  covered.
Mrs R accepted this, and was then shocked to find that RSA had listed  it on her and Mr Ms 
renewal schedule as a claim  albeit for £0. 
RSA explained  that it records all enquiries like this, and enters them  on an industry database 
meant to help prevent fraud and allow insurers to assess risk when deciding  whether or not 
to insure someone.
Mr M and Mrs R complained, but RSA didnt change its stance.
Mrs R brought the complaint to us, as she doesnt think  this is fair, and that she and Mr M 
will be disadvantaged when buying insurance  from now on because  of an inaccurate record.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint ne upheld. She explained that insurers 
record all losses  whether they lead to a claim or not  on the database. She thought  RSA 
was entitled to record the enquiry Mrs R made, as she thought  that, if the problem had been  
covered. Mrs R would  have gone on to make a claim.
Mrs R and Mr M remain unhappy  about  this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In Mr M and Mrs Rs policy theres  a section about Claims History. It says Under the 
conditions of your policy,  you must  tell us about  any incident (e.g. accident, fire, theft or 
malicious damage) which may or may not lead to a claim. When  you tell us about  an 
incident, well pass information relating  to it to the registers.
The list of registers provided  includes the one RSA recorded the enquiry with. 
This is common  practise across  the insurance  industry, with the majority of insurers  signed 
up to provide this sort of information. Its meant  to help prevent fraud and also help insurers  
assess risk when considering whether to insure a customer.
Ref: DRN70627522I dont think theres any question that Mrs R called RSA to see if she had cover following an 
incident. So I think RSA was correct when it recorded this with the database.  
RSA explained  that this wouldnt  affect Mr M and Mrs Rs no claims bonus,  and they need  
not declare it (to RSA) when they next renewed their policy. 
I understand Mrs Rs concern that she and Mr M might  have  to declare the enquiry to any 
other insurers. And they fear it might mean insurance is more  expensive or less easily  
available. But most insurers  expect applicants to declare  all losses   not just claims  when  
applying for cover. So, as our investigator  said, Mr M and Mrs R may need  to declare this 
anyway, if they choose  to buy insurance elsewhere, although that is of course, their choice. 
Additionally, this service  can only look at complaints  about things  that have already 
happened. So I cant consider compensating a customer  for something that might happen in 
the future   like an increased  premium, for example.  
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7062752