K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1990. Mr and Mrs H say National & Provincial Building Society, now known as Santander  UK 
Plc, mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
Ill refer only to Santander as the seller in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
mis-sale
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive reviewed a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs signed mortgage application form and separate 
PPI application  form and I believe Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have 
to take out the PPI. I can see they chose to take it out. I cant  say for sure what  
happened at the time,  but I cant see that Santander suggested they had to have  the PPI 
if they wanted the mortgage as Mr and Mrs H have  argued.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example, they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover as theres  nothing  to 
suggest Mr and Mrs H had any other means of meeting their monthly repayments for a 
prolonged period of time if Mr H wasnt  working.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said. But this doesnt change  my decision.  
I say that because, regarding Mr Hs employment status, the mortgage  and PPI information 
recorded in 1990 indicates he was employed  rather than self-employed.  The email they 
subsequently obtained in 2016 to support their argument that Mr H was self-employed  
doesnt persuade  me that theyre correct as I find it to be inconclusive. For example, it refers 
to the dates of Mr Hs employment  suggesting he was employed. But in any event,  even 
if I were to accept he was self-employed, the policy terms that I think  are likely to have 
applied wouldnt have  made it more difficult for him to claim in those circumstances.
Ive carefully reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs letter dated 1990 in which  they asked for the PPI to 
be cancelled. But Santander  confirms it didnt receive it and I cant  see enough evidence to 
the contrary. Im also mindful that, if Mr and Mrs H had indeed  intended  to cancel the PPI, 
Ref: DRN74481572its likely  theyd have checked, much sooner than they did, that their instructions had been 
carried out. 
commission and profit share
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  issued 
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  PPI.
The FCA said that, if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But Santanders told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santanders been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7448157