K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with St Andrews Insurance Plcs handling of his mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy and the claim he made on it.
background
In August  2018,  Mr S became seriously  ill and was ultimately hospitalised for a number of 
weeks. With his wifes  help, he made a claim on the policy for disability benefits.  Around five 
weeks after speaking to Mr S wife, St Andrews wrote to Mr S to confirm it had accepted, 
and would pay, the claim. 
By that time,  St Andrews  had also written to Mr S to explain that, due to its error,  hed been  
overpaying premiums since 2015  and that hed been  told his monthly benefit amount was 
higher than it actually  was. It said his policy had been amended  accordingly  and that it was 
arranging a refund of the overpaid premiums plus interest. 
Mr S complained to St Andrews primarily because  of the way in which it had assessed  the 
validity of the claim and also because he felt it should pay the higher benefit amount.
St Andrews  apologised to Mr S for his monthly  benefit not being  reduced in line with his 
mortgage sooner  and for giving him the wrong impression about how much in benefit  he was 
due. It also apologised  for refunding his overpayments before telling him what the refund 
was for but was of the view that the amount of benefit it had paid him was in line with the 
policy terms. In recognition of the inconvenience caused, St Andrews offered Mr S £200.
Unhappy with St Andrews response, Mr S complained to us. Our adjudicator  looked  into the 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld  to the extent that St Andrews should increase 
its offer of compensation by £200  (making £400  in total). 
The parties didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr S has commented that hes unhappy  with how the PPI was sold to him, as he wasnt  
made aware  of how the PPI would work in practice.  Ive not considered  that matter here as 
that concerns  the sale of the policy, whereas  this complaint turns on how the insurer  
St Andrews   responded to his claim.  In doing so, Ill set out my findings  on the issues  that I 
believe go to the heart  of the complaint.
Regarding the amount payable under the policy, the terms say the monthly benefit amount 
will be 133%  of the insureds monthly mortgage  payment  at the date of disablement.  Given 
my understanding of what Mr S monthly  mortgage payment was when he suffered 
disablement, I'm satisfied St Andrews correctly worked out the benefits he was due. 
Ref: DRN76427612That said,  I do think St Andrews led to believe that he stood to receive  a higher benefit 
amount than he would actually  receive. As late as February 2018, St Andrews sent Mr S an 
annual policy review  incorrectly stating  hed receive  £428.29 a month for disability and 
unemployment claims. It wasnt until October  2018, after making his claim, that it informed 
him of the mistake and that he should have been paying £9.04  a month in premiums from 
January 2015  (for a monthly benefit  of £152.19) instead of £25.44.  
Most recently, St Andrews has argued  that Mr S ought to have been aware that his benefit 
amount would reduce in line with his mortgage payment, meaning he didnt suffer  a loss of 
expectation. 
But I note that, in its own final response letter, St Andrews said it was offering £200  as 
compensation albeit it was aware this payment does not make up for the claim benefit you 
were expecting. I think this was an acknowledgment  by St Andrews that Mr S had suffered 
a loss of expectation regarding the benefit  amount. And I agree with that conclusion.  
Mr S says he wasnt aware the policy benefit  would reduce  in line with his mortgage 
payment. He says if he had been,  he wouldnt have made a capital repayment towards his 
mortgage of £10,000 prior to claiming.  I note he says hed have invested the money instead, 
but I have no way of knowing with any certainty  what he would  have done.  On balance, I 
dont have enough evidence to show hed have  done anything differently. So I dont think 
St Andrews  should  pay any additional compensation for that.
Regarding St Andrews  assessment of the validity of the claim,  I realise  that Mr S had to 
claim on the policy at an extremely stressful time for him and his family. Nevertheless, 
St Andrews   as set out in the policy terms  was entitled to information including the 
following: 
confirmation of the validity of the claim; and
proof it reasonably  asks for, without  which  it couldnt  pay any benefit; and
for disability claims, successive doctors statements and/or medical certificates
While I recognise St Andrews attempts to contact those caring for Mr S were far from ideal 
from their perspective,  the reality is that Mr S had made clear his intention to claim on the 
policy. I think St Andrews made  genuine  attempts to follow  that up by assessing the validity 
of the claim without causing undue delay. This is reflected by the fact that St Andrews wrote 
to confirm its acceptance of the claim relatively  soon after gathering  further information.
Its rarely  straightforward  deciding  how much  compensations  due for the inconvenience,  
frustration and upset  thats caused  when things go wrong. But, in the light of the errors made 
by St Andrews, the length of time they continued  and their impact on Mr S at what  was 
already a difficult time, I dont think its offer of £200  is sufficient to put things right for him.
Ive thought carefully about the comments Mr S has made, including  those made  in response 
to our adjudicators opinion about how hes been  affected. Taking  everything into account, I 
dont think a significantly higher awards  warranted in the circumstances, or would be 
consistent with our published approach to compensation  for non-financial loss. And we have 
no power to punish  or fine St Andrews, as Mr S suggests we should.
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be fair for St Andrews to pay Mr S an 
additional £200 as compensation on top of its existing offer of £200. 
Ref: DRN76427613my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding the complaint  in part. I require St Andrews Insurance  
Plc to pay Mr S £200, in addition to the £200  its already  offered to pay him, as 
compensation for its handling of this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7642761