K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car he rented from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) under  a contract hire agreement  was of unsatisfactory quality and he should be 
allowed to reject it.
background
At the beginning  of March 2018, Mr A entered into a contract hire agreement with VWFS for 
a new car. He paid an advance  rental of £2,600 and agreed to pay 23 monthly rentals of 
£251.83 each.
In April 2018 Mr A complained to the dealer which supplied the car, which Ill call D1, that 
when driving above  40 mph the steering and handling became imprecise. He showed D1 
what he meant.
D1 was sympathetic.  It took the car in and investigated  it extensively  to see if it could find 
any fault. It also involved the manufacturers technical department, who sent a 
representative to drive the car. His conclusion was that the car performed as he would 
expect and so wasnt faulty. D1 returned the car to Mr A at the end of May 2019.
Mr A said the car still had the same  handling issue and told VWFS he wanted to reject the 
car. VWFS said it would return £500 to Mr A to compensate for the time he had been without 
the car while it investigated his complaint, which Mr A accepted.
VWFS said the car had been  seen both by D1 and by another  main dealer for this make of 
car, which Ill call D2, but neither could find fault with the car, which was performing as 
expected. So it didnt agree that Mr A could reject the car.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said D1 initially 
seemed to acknowledge that there  was something  wrong with the car. So there was a 
lengthy investigation into possible causes. A buckled wheel was replaced, and some  coding 
was updated on the cars  computer. However after further testing no further fault could be 
found.
VWFS said Mr A could take the car to another main dealer for a second  opinion. So Mr A 
took the car to D2. It didnt  seem  to have done anything  of note, or to have produced any 
report.
After we became  involved VWFS  arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
motor engineer at its own expense. VWFS said it would support rejection of the car if this 
report revealed there was a problem with the car at all. Mr A was able to speak  to the 
engineer and accompany him on his test drive of the car. The engineers report said:
'Visual inspection found no patent  defect  with the suspension /steering systems and during 
road test the vehicle's performance and handling ability  was considered  satisfactory with the 
engineer experiencing a slight 'skip' following hitting  a pot-hole... Given  the findings  the 
engineer believes  the vehicle handling and performance ability to be commensurate with that 
of similar  vehicles driven during the course  of his duties.'
Following this report, VWFS said it wouldnt support rejection  of the car. The adjudicator 
thought this was fair. He thought VWFS had treated  Mr A fairly in refunding  £500  to 
Ref: DRN71122632acknowledge the time taken  to inspect the car, and in agreeing to pay for the independent  
engineers report.  However he didnt think it reasonable to ask VWFS  to do anything  more.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that he remained unhappy with this outcome. He felt 
the car still had the problem he had identified at the outset. D1 had had his car for a long 
time without  resolving this issue, and the £500  VWFS  had refunded didnt fully compensate 
him for this and the time he had spent trying  to get it resolved. There was also some 
discrepancy between  the work D1 and D2 said had been done on the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think VWFS has treated  Mr A fairly  in listening  to his complaint, investigating it fully, and 
trying to reach a resolution. I think the compensation it paid him for the time he was without 
the car was reasonable, and it also paid for an independent inspection of his car. I dont think  
any minor  discrepancy in the work D1 and D2 said was done on the car is material.
I acknowledge that Mr A remains unhappy with the way the car performs.  But in a dispute of 
this nature we tend to place most reliance on evidence from independent sources.
In this case, the findings of the independent  engineer which  Ive quoted  above  dont suggest 
theres any fault with the car. So I cant reasonably require VWFS to accept a rejection of the 
car, or to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7112263