K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mr P says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr P says that he didnt  know the policy was optional, and that he wouldve declined the PPI 
if hed been made aware that it was. But I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this as it was so long ago. 
Mr P applied for his card and policy online, and Barclays has shown that its sales process 
presented the policy as optional  and that Mr P wouldve  had to make a choice about  taking  
PPI or declining it, before completing  his application.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that 
Barclays did anything differently with Mr P when he applied  for his card. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including what  hes said about  having good 
sickness benefits from his employer at the time,  so he didnt need the PPI. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of any existing  sick pay Mr P was entitled  to, and for longer than 
hes received full pay for. So this point doesnt  change my decision, and for the reasons set 
out above, I dont  think  the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN78904232my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7890423