K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs C used  to hold with NRAM Limited. She says it 
delayed taking possession of, and selling, her property leaving her with substantial losses.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 1 May 2020,  which is attached below and forms part 
of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which  I was minded to determine 
this complaint, subject  to the further submissions of the parties. 
I gave the parties  until 22 May 2020 to reply. Both have done so; NRAM responded saying it 
had nothing further to say; Mrs C made a more detailed reply,  rebutting  my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill pick up on a point  Mrs C made about  me only referencing NRAMs evidence  and not hers. 
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it.
Its not unusual  for such evidence to conflict;  its the nature of dispute resolution that the 
parties have differing points of view and recollect  things  differently. Where that happens,  Im 
required to decide  what is most  likely to have happened on the balance  of probabilities; 
thats the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
The value of lenders  contact notes is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect  
what was said and agreed at the relevant time.  Theyre not fool-proof, of course;  its always  
possible information might  be recorded  incorrectly. But theyre typically  more reliable than 
peoples individual  recollections at a distance of time which,  although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory.  So unless theres a compelling reason  to believe 
the information is inaccurate, well generally attach  some weight to it.
Im sorry  if Ive given Mrs C a different impression, but I assure  her Ive read and taken 
account of everything  that both parties have said and provided.  Having done so, however, 
Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions.
NRAMs decision not to enforce  the possession order when it was granted  in October 2016 
was eminently the right call, for all the reasons I set out in the provisional decision.  It would 
have endangered the sale Mrs C was trying to complete  of her own volition.
Yes, the February 2017 decision  was risky, but every  decision that a lender makes in 
situations such as this comes with some risk. It was, as I said a judgement call, and one that, 
based on everything NRAM knew at the time,  Im satisfied  it took in good faith. I cant use 
subsequent events and the hindsight they provide as a reason to make a different judgement  
of my own and impose it retrospectively on NRAM.
Lastly, its apparent  that the writer of NRAMs letter of 8 November 2018  did say that NRAM 
had stopped IDs sale of the property during the summer. I had already seen that letter  (a 
copy was already on file) and was aware  of its contents. However, I considered its value  as 
Ref: DRN76366232evidence was outweighed by the contemporaneous notes  recording the reason for the sale 
not proceeding was the buyers decision to pull out, despite both ID and NRAM having  given  
assurances about releasing  their respective charges. In other  words,  I concluded  that the 
statement in the 8 November 2018  letter  was most  likely incorrect.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is I dont uphold  this 
complaint, and make no order  or award against  NRAM Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  
in any further  discussion  of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76366233CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mrs C used to hold with NRAM Limited. She says it delayed 
taking possession of, and selling, her property leaving her with substantial  losses.
 
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words  and rounding  some of the figures. No discourtesys  intended by that; its a reflection  of the 
informal service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which in my 
view will have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs C owned a property on which she had a first mortgage with NRAM and a second charge  loan with 
a lender Ill call ID. Mrs C had been in long-term financial difficulties and was trying to sell the 
mortgaged property.  She had a sale agreed in 2015, which was blocked  by ID because there would  
not have been enough left over from the sale proceeds to clear its debt in full after NRAM, as first 
charge holder, had been paid all that it was due.
Mrs C continued her efforts  to try and sell, but in October 2016,  NRAM was granted  a 56-day 
possession order. It didnt try to enforce that order immediately because Mrs C again had a sale in 
progress and was hopeful this would  complete. Unfortunately, in January 2017, that sale also fell 
through, seemingly  for the same reason  that ended the 2015 sale That is, that ID blocked  it because  it 
faced the prospect of a shortfall on the amount it was owed.
In February 2017, Mrs C was in contact  with NRAM  to discuss the possibility of surrendering 
possession voluntarily.  That wasnt  pursued and instead, Mrs C put the house back on the market, 
believing she could now sell it at a higher price than previously. NRAM asked her for repayment 
proposals and in May 2017, she told it shed started working again  and hoped  to be able to make 
payments.
None were made however, and in July 2017, NRAM  learned that ID was contemplating  possession  
action of its own. NRAM conducted a review in preparation for enforcing its possession order but 
decided not to when  Mrs C made a lump sum payment of just under  £900.  She provided  an income 
and expenditure analysis, a payment arrangement  was agreed, and NRAM halted its litigation. Mrs C 
made a payment in September 2017, but none  more after that. 
What happened next is that ID obtained and enforced its own possession order and marketed the 
property for sale. It had a sale progressing through the spring and early  summer of 2018 for over 
£182,000, but this fell through when the buyers  pulled out. At this point,  possession reverted to 
NRAM, and it advertised the house for just under £175,000. A sale completed in February  2019 for 
£171,000. This allowed  NRAM to clear all of the debt owed to it, but left ID with a significant shortfall.
Mrs C brought complaints  against both businesses; the main thrust  of the one against  NRAM is that it 
delayed taking possession  when it could have done in 2016.  But Mrs C also said NRAM blocked  the 
sale by ID in 2018.
Our investigator initially thought  NRAM should have enforced the 2016 possession order immediately. 
He reviewed his position after further comments from NRAM on why it had decided  not to enforce the 
possession order. In his follow-up view of the case, our investigator accepted NRAMs point of view 
but concluded that it should instead of enforced the possession order in February  2017, after ID had 
blocked the sale.
Ref: DRN76366234NRAM asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. Were  not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police their internal processes or how they operate  
generally. Thats  the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations 
and reach  our conclusions without interference from anyone else.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Its important to say at the outset that in a case like this I cannot  
apply hindsight when  assessing the fairness or otherwise  of decisions  that NRAM made  in 2016,  2017 
and 2018. I can only take into account what it knew at the time it took the decisions.  
First of all, some context  is needed  here. Theres  no doubt  that financial hardship, arrears, and the 
prospect of repossession  are horrible for a borrower. But they are a reality, and lenders often find 
themselves exposed to criticism, however they exercise  their judgement.  Its common to see lender 
accused of repossessing too soon, not so much that they have repossessed too late. But thats what  
NRAM is accused  of here.
Theres no basis  to find that NRAM was wrong not to enforce  the possession order at the time it was 
granted in 2016. Firstly,  despite what she says now, its quite apparent from the contact notes  that 
Mrs C clearly didnt want NRAM to enforce the order at the time, and why would she? Mrs C was 
midway through a sale at that point, and had the order been enforced, it would  not simply  have been 
the case  that NRAM could supervise that sale through to completion. 
The sale in progress was subject to a contract between  Mrs C and the buyer. If NRAM had taken 
possession, Mrs C would no longer have any standing to sell the property;  the existing contract would 
become null and void.  The entire process would have had to start again, with a new contract  
negotiated between the buyer and NRAM. 
Theres no safe way of knowing if that could  have happened without the risk of significant disruption  
and delay; not least  the prospect of the buyer using the change of vendor as an opportunity to offer a 
lower price. The lesser  risk was to keep the possession order  in reserve and allow Mrs C the chance  
to try and complete the sale herself. 
The situation  in February 2017 is more finely judged; I do understand why our investigator thought  
NRAM should  have acted at that point.  ID had already  twice  blocked  a sale by Mrs C that would have 
resulted in a shortfall  (although its possible  NRAM wasnt aware it had happened in 2015); he took 
the view it would  probably  do so again. The power to do that would have been removed  from ID if 
NRAM were selling as mortgagee in possession.
But I also have to keep  in mind that lenders are always  exhorted to regard  repossession as a last 
resort. When  I look at NRAMs contemporaneous notes from the time, its fair to say it was trying to be 
patient, and give Mrs C some latitude to try and sort things out herself. I think it would  be unfair, with 
the benefits of more than three years worth of hindsight, to say NRAM made  a wrong judgement in 
February 2017.
I think  that in February 2017 NRAM made a reasonable judgement in good faith; it was a risky 
judgement, yes, but one which by the summer of 2017 looked as though  it might  be vindicated.  Sadly, 
subsequent events meant  that proved  not to be the case  but that doesnt invalidate the 
reasonableness of the judgement that was taken.
Ref: DRN76366235Once ID had possession, control of the fate of the mortgaged property was no longer in NRAMs 
direct control.  All it could do was wait to see ID did with it. Mrs C has said that, in a reversal of 
positions, NRAM  stopped ID from selling the property in 2018 for a higher  price than it went  on to 
achieve in 2019. 
I can think of no reason why NRAM would have done that; it was always assured of being  repaid in 
full from the sale by ID. But in any event, the available  evidence  doesnt support that assertion.  Ive 
seen evidence to suggest that IDs sale fell through because  the buyers  solicitors werent convinced 
that their clients would  get clear and unencumbered  title to the property, despite  ID and NRAM having 
given assurances that each would release its respective  charge over the property.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point,  and I havent.  I have, confined 
myself to those matters that I consider have a material  effect on the outcome. Im impartial and I have  
to look at things objectively,  sometimes taking  a step back and focussing on the broader  picture. 
Thats what Ive done. Having  done so, I cant find in Mrs Cs favour,  however much shed  like me to 
and thinks I should.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against NRAM Limited.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 22 May 2020, or sooner if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Again, neither  
party need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7636623