K822xcomplaint
Mrs H had problems with her roof leaking, after her neighbours had their roof re-tiled. She
complained because Ageas Insurance Limited  declined her property insurance claim for the
damage to her roof and to the room below.
background
Mrs Hs policy with Ageas covered buildings, contents and accidental  damage.  She also had
legal protection  cover.
Mrs H lives in a terraced house.  One of the neighbouring properties is owned  by a housing
association, which retiled the roof of that property.
On 20 March 2018, Mrs H discovered  water  staining to the ceiling and walls of one of her
bedrooms. She contacted Ageas, who sent an inspector to look at the problem on 23 March.
The inspectors report said:
An assessment of the roof covering directly above the point  of corresponding internal
damage suggests water or thawing  snow has migrated under the tiles before trajecting
internally. We note the presence of birds  around the gutter line which  may have  caused
damage to the underlying roofing felt through occupation of the roof space. We also note
that some  of the tiles appear to have been  disturbed. This is not consistent with storm
damage but more  likely due to poor refitting when the neighbouring  roof was retiled.
Ageas declined Mrs Hs claim, and Mrs H complained.  She said that the new tiles used on
her neighbours property  didnt join onto those already  on her property, and that the plate
fitted above the guttering hadnt been  fitted  correctly over the joint  as was shown  in Ageas
inspectors photos.
Mrs H also said that the accidental damage section  of her policy had an exclusion referring
to faulty workmanship   but this faulty  workmanship was the result of her neighbours
workmen. Her own property had been  properly  maintained and she didnt think this exclusion
was intended  to deal with her situation.
In its final response,  Ageas said that at the time of the claim, there hadnt been any wind
speeds sufficient  to cause the structural damage. It said that birds  along the gutter  might
have damaged the underlying roofing felt. It also said that the poor refitting when Mrs Hs
neighbours had their roof retiled wasnt covered under Mrs Hs policy. Ageas told Mrs H that
shed have to contact the contractors who had retiled her neighbours roof, to get the
contractors to put her back in the position shed been in before.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. As well as Ageas decline of her
insurance claim, Mrs H was unhappy that Ageas hadnt offered her any help in pursuing  the
legal claim against  her neighbours housing association, under her legal protection policy.
Mrs H said that the neighbours housing association had refused to deal with her, saying  it
would only deal with her insurer.
The investigator upheld  Mrs Hs complaint. She considered there was enough evidence to
show that both the roof and internal damage  to Mrs Hs property had been  caused by the
poor workmanship of the neighbours housing association contractors. She noted  that the
accidental damage  part of Mrs Hs policy had an exclusion for damage  resulting from faulty
Ref: DRN75598172workmanship, design or materials. But she considered that the intention  of the policy  was to
exclude faulty workmanship which the policyholder had authorised   in other words, where
the policyholder  had a contract  with the relevant workmen. So she didnt think it would be fair
for Ageas to apply the exclusion. She recommended  that Ageas should deal with the
damage for the roof and internal damage, and pay Mrs H £200 compensation for the trouble
and upset it had caused her by failing to deal with the claim fairly.
Ageas didnt agree. It said that:
- it couldnt cover Mrs Hs claim under  storm damage  as there had been  no storm; and
- if it covered the claim under accidental damage, the exclusion  about  faulty  
workmanship would apply.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered which sections of Mrs Hs policy are relevant here.
Storm damage
Ageas argued  that it couldnt  cover  the claim because there  was no storm. Mrs H has
never alleged  that there was a storm which caused the damage. Storm damage  is not
mentioned in Ageas investigators  report. And I considered that the evidence from Ageas
investigator, and the photos,  showed  that it was most likely that the damage  resulted from 
the works  on Mrs Hs neighbours roof.
So I found that the argument about storm damage was irrelevant, because  no-one has ever
alleged that storm  damage was the cause.
Accidental damage
Mrs Hs accidental damage  policy stated  that the following is excluded:
Damage caused  by or resulting from:
- wear  and tear, loss of value or lack of maintenance
...
- rain or water entering the home,  as a result of faulty workmanship,  poor maintenance or
wear and tear;
- faulty workmanship, design or materials.
I considered these exclusions carefully. There was no evidence that Mrs H failed to maintain
her property, or contracted with her own workmen to do any work which was faulty or used
inappropriate materials. The photos  showed  a clear line of sizeable holes where the two roof
tilings meet.  And Ageas  own report said The surveyor believes  that some  of the tiles
appear to have been disturbed consistent with poor refitting when the neighbouring roof was
retiled.
I did not accept  that the significant sized holes along  the join could have been caused by
house sparrows nesting. House sparrows might take advantage of the holes once present,
but would  not have  been capable of creating the large, regular, tile-shaped,  holes shown on
Ref: DRN75598173the photos.
So the issue  was whether  or not it would be fair and reasonable  for Ageas to apply the 
exclusion about faulty workmanship to contractors not employed by Mrs H. I found  that it 
wasnt. Mrs H had no control over the quality  of the workmanship, as she had no contract  
with the housing associations contractors. She hadnt employed poor quality workmen, and 
wasnt responsible  for their failings. Nor was she able to do anything  about it. So I found that 
the exclusion didnt  apply, and that Ageas  should  consider Mrs Hs claim for the roof and the
internal damage  resulting from it.
Legal protection
Mrs H also had legal protection cover. This provided  cover  for Legal costs to pursue actions
against parties causing physical damage  to the main home. I said that Mrs H shouldnt  
need to use this for the main part of the claim, as Ive found  that Ageas should  consider the 
claim for both the roof and the internal damage. But I noted that she might  wish to pursue 
this option to recover the excess on her policy.
I recognised that Ageas  thought it wasnt clear enough in Mrs Hs complaint that she wanted
help so she could  claim under  her legal protection cover. I considered Ageas should have
realised this from Mrs Hs complaint. But regardless of that, I also noted that there was no
evidence that Ageas mentioned this available cover as a possible route  for Mrs H, when it
refused her claim. Although it wasnt under  any obligation to do so, I considered it would 
have been good practice to do so  especially  when  it had declined the totality  of her claim, 
not just the excess. So I provisionally  found  that Ageas  should  provide any necessary 
assistance if Mrs H needs to make a claim under  her legal  protection policy  in order  to 
recover her compulsory excess.
Compensation for trouble  and upset
I recognised that Mrs H had had a very stressful time with this claim. Any building claim is 
stressful, but I found that Ageas actions  increased  Mrs Hs distress.  This wasnt  simply 
because it declined a claim which I believed it should have considered, but because of the 
manner in which it did so:
- In its final response,  Ageas first reason  for declining the claim talked  about  wind
speed, despite the fact that Mrs H had never alleged that the cause was storm
damage.
- I also considered that Ageas suggestion  that birds  might have caused damage was
unreasonable, given the clear improbability of this from the photos.
- I noted that at one point, the housing association  contractors said they would only 
deal with Mrs Hs insurers, so it was distressing when Ageas simply declined  the 
claim altogether, leaving Mrs H with no resource apart from this service.
- When it declined the claim,  Ageas also failed to talk to Mrs H about the fact she had
legal protection  cover,  and how she could  go about  making a claim on this. Although
not a compulsory part of an insurers duties, it would have been helpful to Mrs H. It
would have been particularly useful in the context that the housing  association
contractors had refused  to deal with Mrs H in person. That meant she felt she had
Ref: DRN75598174nowhere to turn to. I found  that not pointing Mrs H in the right direction was a failure  
of good customer  service.
Taking these factors  into account, I considered Ageas should pay Mrs H £300 compensation
for the trouble and upset  which it caused  her.
So my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and to order  
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
- consider Mrs Hs claim  for roof and internal damage under the accidental  damage
section of her policy;
- provide any necessary assistance if she needs to make a claim under her legal
protection policy in order  to recover  her compulsory excess; and
- pay Mrs H £300 compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused her.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs H said she had nothing to add, but she was concerned  about  two things:
-She said she was worried about how long it would take to resolve, because she 
pointed out that winter  was setting in again, and she was having much rain these 
past few weeks. So she was concerned about any further  damage.
-She queried the fact that Id said that Ageas should consider her claim. She was 
concerned that this wasnt the same as saying Ageas should uphold it and take 
action. 
Ageas didnt accept  the provisional decision. It said:
-It stood by its decision to decline the claim and reject Mrs Hs complaint;
-It had declined the claim on grounds  of faulty workmanship,  which  was an 
exclusion in Mrs Hs policy. Ageas said it understood Mrs H hadnt employed the 
workmen, the policy didnt  specify whether  or not faulty  workmanship was caused 
by a neighbouring property;
-It said it refused to award  compensation because it had a policy of treating customers 
fairly. It said it wouldnt be appropriate to offer compensation every time a claim was 
declined;
-It refused  to help with anything to do with the Legal Expenses  Policy, on the grounds  
that this was underwritten by a different company. Mrs H would have to contact  that 
company if she wanted to make a claim.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also considered what  both Mrs 
H, and Ageas, have  said in response to the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN75598175Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions, for the 
following reasons.
In relation to Ageas response to the provisional  decision: 
-I do not consider  it either fair or reasonable for Ageas to exclude Mrs Hs claim on the 
grounds that her neighbours  roof contractors  had damaged her property  because  of 
their faulty workmanship. It is irrelevant whether or not Ageas policy wording fails 
to differentiate between  the policy holders workmen and a third partys workmen. A 
policy holder cant  be liable for the faulty workmanship of contractors she hadnt 
employed and over whom she had no control.  So I find that Ageas cannot  decline  
Mrs Hs claim on this ground.
-I do not agree with, and cannot see the logic in, Ageas argument that it refuses to 
award compensation because it has a policy of treating customers fairly.  I find that 
Ageas has not treated Mrs H fairly, either  in the outcome or in its customer  service. 
-I also do not accept  Ageas  statement  that it would be inappropriate to award 
compensation every time it declines a claim. The point  is that Ageas declined  Mrs Hs 
claim when it should  not have done so. It also failed to provide her with adequate 
customer service.
-In regards to Mrs Hs Legal Expenses Policy, I find that Ageas failed  to provide the 
assistance it should have done.  It should now provide all necessary information and 
details to the Legal Expenses  Policy provider, and confirm to Mrs H that it has done  
so. This will enable  her to seek to reclaim her policy  excess  from her Legal Expenses 
Policy, with Ageas covering the substantive part of Mrs Hs claim..
In relation to Mrs Hs response  to the provisional decision:
-I understand why Mrs H is concerned that I said that Ageas should consider Mrs 
Hs claim, rather than uphold and pay it. But this service would expect  Ageas  to 
follow all aspects of this final decision. This includes not declining  the claim on 
grounds of Mrs Hs neighbours contractors faulty workmanship.
-I recognize that Mrs H is understandably concerned about future damage caused by 
and linked to the claim  she has made to Ageas. As Ageas failed to provide a timely 
acceptance of Mrs Hs claim, I confirm that any further deterioration or subsequent 
linked damage,  due to further  bad weather,  will be an integral part of this claim.  It 
would not be a separate claim with a separate excess.
-If Mrs H isnt satisfied  with Ageas  further handling of her claim, she is welcome to 
come back  to this service with a further  complaint. Ageas  should be aware that any 
such further claim may lead to an additional award  of compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
Ref: DRN75598176My final decision is that I order Ageas Insurance Limited to
-Consider Mrs Hs claim for roof and internal damage under the accidental  damage
section of her policy. It should  not decline the claim on the grounds of faulty  
workmanship by her neighbours contractors, over whom Mrs H had no control.
-As part of the same  claim, Ageas must consider any further deterioration or 
subsequent linked damage, due to further  bad weather.  This will be an integral  part 
of this claim. It would  not be a separate claim with a separate excess.
-Ageas  is to provide all necessary  information and details to the Legal Expenses 
Policy provider, and confirm to Mrs H that it has done so. This will enable  her to 
pursue reclaiming  her policy excess from her Legal  Expenses  Policy,  with Ageas 
covering the substantive part of Mrs Hs claim..
- Pay Mrs H £300 compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 February  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7559817