K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed his accounts.  He wants  HSBC  
to give him an explanation  why it blocked  his accounts. He says HSBCs actions caused him 
inconvenience and he wants HSBC to reopen his accounts.
Background
Mr P had two currency accounts, a savings account  and current  account with HSBC.
In October  2018, HSBC  reviewed Mr Ps accounts  and blocked  his USD currency  account. 
Following this review on 19 December 2018 HSBC  blocked and reviewed Mr Ps remaining 
accounts. Whilst it conducted its review Mr P wasnt able to access any funds in his 
accounts or make any payments. HSBC  removed the blocks  from all of Mr Ps accounts on 
11 January 2019.
In May 2019, HSBC  wrote to Mr P to let him know it was closing his accounts. And it gave 
him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr P says he has operated his account  properly for several years  and hasnt done  anything 
wrong. He says the block on his accounts caused him stress and inconvenience.  In 
particular, he says payments he made were returned which  caused him a great deal of 
embarrassment.  
Mr P complained to the bank. HSBC said it hadnt  done anything wrong. And it had blocked  
and then closed  Mr Ps accounts  in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr P wasnt 
happy with this response. He wants HSBC  to apologise and give him an explanation for why 
it blocked and then closed his accounts.  He also wants HSBC to pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset hes been  caused  when his payments were returned.  
An investigator looked at Mr Ps complaint.  She said HSBC hadnt done anything  wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Mr Ps accounts. Mr P disagreed.  Hes still upset  by what  
happened and wants HSBC to provide him with a proper explanation  about why it blocked 
his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr P has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate he is upset that HSBC  blocked and closed his accounts. And that this 
has caused him inconvenience.  But for me to uphold this complaint, I must  be satisfied that 
the bank has done something  wrong.  And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN74554812Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial  Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers  identity, establish the 
purpose and nature  of the business  relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. HSBC has said 
that Mr Ps accounts were  blocked  to meet these  legal requirements.
Mr P says he has operated his accounts  properly and hasnt done anything  which  would 
cause HSBC to keep block and then close his accounts. And I can understand why he feels  
as he does. But as Ive already explained businesses have a legal obligation  to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Having looked  at whats happened  in this case, Im satisfied 
that the bank was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ps 
accounts. So, I cant say it has done  anything wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
accounts also permit  HSBC to block an account. Having considered those terms, Im 
satisfied HSBC acted  in line with them.
I know Mr P is frustrated  that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his accounts 
were blocked and then closed. And I appreciate that Mr P says this caused him 
embarrassment when  some of his payments  were  returned. But under  the terms and 
conditions HSBC doesnt have to give a reason  for doing so. So, I cant say HSBC  has done  
anything wrong  by not giving Mr P this information  as much as hed like to know.  Ive also 
kept in mind that HSBC asked Mr P to complete a questionnaire about the source of his 
funds, in particular  the country  of origin.  So, I think its likely Mr P had some understanding of 
why HSBC were reviewing his accounts.  
Mr P says HSBC took too long to complete its reviews of his accounts  and didnt  let him 
know what it was doing. Any review should be completed in a timely  manner.  I can see that 
HSBC removed the blocks from Mr Ps accounts  on 11 January 2019. And having looked at 
the enquiries HSBC  was completing I think it carried out the review  as quickly as possible. I 
can also see that as soon as it had finished it released Mr Ps funds to him immediately.  
I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr P on 7 December 2018 to let him know it was carrying  out a 
compliance review of his accounts. And it had several phone conversations with Mr P whilst 
his accounts were blocked. So, Im satisfied that HSBC  did keep Mr P informed about what  it 
was doing. 
Under the terms and conditions  HSBC could close Mr Ps accounts  by giving him 60 days  
notice. And it wasnt required to give Mr P a reason.  So, I cant say HSBC has done anything 
wrong by not providing this information  to him.   
Ive also seen a copy of a letter HSBC sent to Mr P dated 22 May 2019, which informed him 
it would  be closing his accounts in July 2019  within 60 days. So, Im satisfied that HSBC 
has complied with the terms and conditions of the account. And its entitled to close  the 
accounts as it has already  done.
Ref: DRN74554813I appreciate that the closure of the accounts has caused Mr P inconvenience. But the bank 
can make  commercial decisions about  who it offers banking services to. They  cannot unfairly 
discriminate against  a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do business with 
individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide  who they want to 
contract with. And having looked  at the circumstances  of this case, Im satisfied  that HSBC  
has exercised its commercial decision legitimately. So, I cannot say it has treated Mr P 
unfairly when it closed his accounts. And I wont be asking HSBC to reopen  Mr Ps accounts.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr P feels about whats happened,  and I dont doubt  it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Mr P will be disappointed by my decision, 
but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say HSBC  have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr P unfairly when it blocked  and closed his accounts. So, Im not going  to ask them 
to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7455481