K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lendy Ltd only paid him enhanced interest under the bonus  accrual  
scheme for 180 days. He says this wasnt made  clear to him at the time he invested. He 
wants bonus accrual interest for the entire  period the loan remained outstanding.
background
Lendy provides  an electronic system (platform) in relation to lending  which  enables  investors  
to lend or invest in loan contracts with borrowers within a peer to peer lending environment.
Mr G used Lendys platform  to invest in loans.  He says at the time he invested he wasnt  
made aware  that he wouldnt  receive  enhanced interest under the bonus accrual scheme 
beyond 180 days.
When the loans  were repaid Mr G didnt receive the amount of interest he thought he was 
entitled to. He complained to Lendy, who said bonus  interest  was only payable  for 180 days  
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the bonus accrual  scheme.
Mr G complained to this service. He said hed never  been made aware  of the policy  to only 
pay interest for 180 days.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Lendy had published information on 
the platform which gave  details of how and when  the bonus accrual would be paid.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed been  using the platform when Lendy introduced the overdue  
loans policy  in 2017 and that there  was no indication  in the policy  that bonus interest would 
end after 180 days. Mr G said he believed that Lendy had added the 180 day rule at a later 
date and not informed investors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendy has provided screenshots of the information which  would have been available  to Mr G 
on the platform at the time he invested. Ive looked  at these and I can see that under the 
bonus accrual scheme tab there is clear information  about how and when the bonus accrual 
will be paid.  In particular this information makes express reference to a maximum bonus 
accrual of 180 days.
Mr G has said the screenshot provided by Lendy  wasnt the same as the one he saw when 
he invested. He says the information which he saw didnt mention that the enhanced  interest  
would end after 180 days. Mr G says it was only after he complained that Lendy changed the 
screen and included a link to the bonus accrual  information tab.
Notwithstanding that the link may not have been working at the time Mr G invested,  Im 
satisfied that the information was otherwise available  on the platform by visiting  the bonus 
accrual tab. I have  no reason to disbelieve  Mr G when he says he didnt  see or read this 
information. However, this doesnt  mean  that the terms and conditions of the bonus accrual 
scheme dont apply to him.
Ref: DRN73480812Ive also taken into account the fact that Mr G had notice of the overdue loans policy  when it 
was introduced in 2017. The policy makes it clear that bonus accrual will cease to accrue on 
overdue loans  once they become non performing.  Non performing is defined  as past 180 
days.
Taking all of the available information  into account  Im satisfied that Lendy provided sufficient 
information about the bonus accrual scheme for Mr G to have been aware that it ended after 
180 days. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7348081