K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc left him without access  to his funds when it cancelled his 
debit card in error. And that a transaction made with his replacement  card was declined. He 
says he was unable  to go on holiday and, as a result, lost a £200 deposit.  Mr J would like 
TSB to pay more compensation that it has already agreed to pay.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 June  2018 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt intend to uphold  this complaint  in the 
sense that TSB had already offered fair compensation. But I invited  both parties to send any 
additional comments or evidence they wished to provide before I reached a final decision. 
TSB didnt  respond. Mr J didnt accept my provisional decision. He said TSB had assumed 
his wife was travelling with him which wasnt the case. So he wouldnt have been able to 
access funds in the account using  her card. And that he has proof that the personal 
identification numbers  (PINS)  were sent in a different format to what  TSB had said. He 
thought that this point hadnt been taken into consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  carefully about             
Mr Js latest comments. But having done so, I dont intend to uphold his complaint for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision and this final decision.
I noted in my provisional decision  that while I understood that Mr J didnt like TSBs  
suggestion that he couldve used his wifes account,  I found that the suggestion hadnt been  
unreasonable if they had been travelling together.  But I was persuaded that even if they 
hadnt been travelling together, there were a number of other options which didnt include 
carrying lots of cash when  on holiday.  For example, a travel money card or travellers  
cheques. So overall I think there were enough other  secure options of arranging  travel 
money available so that Mr J didnt need to cancel his holiday. So I dont think TSB has to 
cover the loss of Mr Js holiday deposit  or pay more compensation than it already had in 
respect of this part of the complaint - £100, for its error in cancelling Mr Js card, and £6 to 
cover the cost of his telephone calls.
I would like to reassure  Mr J that I did consider the points hed made  about  the PIN numbers 
and cards that were  issued to him and his wife. It was those points  I was referring to when I 
said Id taken into account that TSB hadnt  disputed the problems Mr J had had or that a 
wrong type of card had been  issued  and the confusion it caused. But I also noted that TSB 
had paid a further £50 compensation for these mistakes and any confusion caused. Overall  I 
thought this amount was fair in the circumstances. And Ive not seen any further evidence or 
arguments that would make  me think this offer should be increased.
Ref: DRN75748042So while I fully acknowledge that Mr J suffered  some inconvenience with regard to this 
matter, it remains that Im satisfied that the compensation already paid by TSB in respect  of 
this complaint overall is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not going  to ask 
TSB to pay any more compensation. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, while  Im sorry to disappoint
Mr J, I dont uphold his complaint - in the sense  that TSB Bank plc has already paid fair 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75748043Provisional decision of 29 June 2018
complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc left him without access  to his funds when it cancelled his debit card in error. 
And that a transaction  made with his replacement card was declined. He says he was unable to go on holiday 
and, as a result, lost a £200  deposit. Mr J would like TSB to pay more compensation that it has already agreed  to 
pay.
background
Mr Js wife (Mrs J) was added to Mr Js account as an authorised third party on                              25  October 
2017. As part of this process Mrs J was issued with a debit card in her own name. 
TSB doesnt  dispute that when ordering Mrs J a debit  card,  Mr Js debit  card was cancelled  in error on 26 
November 2017. But it says a new card was ordered  and Mr J accepted £100 compensation and an additional £6 
to cover his call costs  in resolution  of the mistake.
But when Mr J used his replacement  debit card the transaction was declined. This was due to some confusion 
over two Personal Identification Numbers (PINs)  issued  to Mr J. And the replacement card was a contactless 
card which  Mr J had not asked for. TSB paid Mr J an additional £50 compensation in acknowledgment of these 
further problems. And it told us that Mr J had full access to his account and his funds by 7 December  2017.
Mr J says he cancelled  a holiday as a result of the problems as he felt unable to travel  without access to his 
funds. And he didnt want to take cash on a holiday. As a result, he lost his £200 deposit. 
TSB says it was Mr Js decision to cancel his holiday  arrangements.  It says Mrs J had her own personal  account 
with a debit card facility  and that they couldve used this account to fund the holiday expenses. Overall, TSB felt 
the compensation it had already  paid - £156 in total, was fair compensation. 
Mr J didnt  agree so he referred his complaint  to this service.  In addition to his original complaint points, Mr J said 
he wasnt happy with TSBs  suggestion that he couldve  used  his wifes account while travelling. 
Our investigator looked  into Mr Js complaint and he thought it should be upheld. He noted that Mr J couldve  
done something to mitigate the fact he didnt have  a working  TSB debit card so that he couldve continued  with 
his holiday. And he acknowledged that TSB had paid £100 compensation for his original debit  card being 
cancelled without notice and that Mr J had accepted  this payment. But he thought  TSB should increase the 
additional payment of £50 - paid as a result of issuing two PIN advices when Mr J hadnt requested  a new PIN 
and issuing a contactless card,  to £150.
TSB didnt agree with the investigator. In summary it said it had paid compensation totalling £150 plus £6 to 
cover the costs of Mr Js calls and it thought this was fair given  all the circumstances of the complaint. So it asked 
for a final decision from an ombudsman. So the complaint has come to me.     
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont  intend to uphold Mr Js complaint  in the sense  that I think TSB has already 
paid Mr J fair compensation for the errors it made and the inconvenience these caused. I know  Mr J 
will be disappointed with this decision so Ill explain why.  
TSB doesnt dispute that it made an error which resulted in Mr Js card being cancelled. It paid Mr J 
£100 compensation in respect  of this and £6 to cover the cost of his telephone calls.  And, although 
TSB did say that the PIN advice  slips confirm which card each PIN relates  to, I also note TSB paid a 
further £50 compensation for any confusion sending  two PINs may have caused.  So it has paid Mr J 
£156 in total. 
Ref: DRN75748044I note Mr J thinks TSB should pay a higher amount of compensation because he felt he needed  to 
cancel a pre-booked holiday  losing his £200  deposit, as he didnt have access to the funds  in his 
account. So Ive considered this carefully. 
But like the investigator, I think there are a number of other measures  which dont include carrying 
lots of cash when on holiday  (which  I know  Mr J was concerned about). For example, a travel money  
card or travellers  cheques are just two options. And while I understand  that Mr J didnt  like TSBs 
suggestion that he couldve  used his wifes account,  I think - if they had been travelling  together, that 
this was a reasonable solution to avoid  a holiday cancellation. So overall  I think there were  enough  
other secure options of arranging  travel money available  so that Mr J didnt need to cancel his 
holiday. So I dont think TSB has to cover the loss of Mr Js holiday deposit.
So Ive gone on to consider if the overall payment made to Mr J  as outlined above, is fair. There is 
no dispute over the initial mistake and Mr J accepted the original £100 offered to him. So I think this is 
a fair outcome to that part of Mr Js complaint.  
And TSB also accepted the confusion caused by the issue  of the new PINs. And it paid a further £50 
for this. Our investigator recommended it should pay £150 - for the confusion  caused and because  
TSB issued a contactless card when  Mr J had specifically asked  not to be sent this type of card. But 
TSB says that by asking it to pay £150 compensation for the confusion  over the PINs  suggests this 
would have had more  of an impact on Mr J than the error of cancelling the card in the first place  and it 
doesnt agree that this is the case. 
So Ive thought about this carefully too. Ive taken into account that TSB hasnt disputed the problems 
Mr J has had or that a wrong type of card was issued. But Ive also taken into consideration  that Mr J 
was able to use the contactless card and it seems he was able to access cash from his account  by 7 
December 2017. So I dont think there was any undue delay in resolving the problem. So overall,  I 
think the compensation already paid to Mr J - given all the circumstances  of this complaint, is fair. So 
Im not intending to ask TSB to pay more compensation than it already has.
my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 13 July 2018. But unless anything  changes  my mind, 
for the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold  Mr Js complaint  in the sense that TSB Bank 
plc has already paid fair compensation.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7574804