K821x#15complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited has stopped making 
payments to her, following a successful claim on her income protection policy. 
background
Mrs F is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection policy. In 2015 Mrs F 
returned to work after maternity leave. She has been absent from work  because of sickness 
since January 2016. 
When Mrs F first completed a claim form in March 2016 she described her reasons for being 
absent from work as being, anxiety, low mood, work related stress, miscarriage. She 
identified the symptoms that prevented  her from working as, anxiety, low mood, work 
related stress, miscarriage  hospital,  pain, stress. She started seeing a counsellor in 
February 2016 at her own expense.  
Mrs Fs claim was initially accepted but in November 2017 Legal  and General stopped 
paying the monthly benefit on the basis that Mrs Fs symptoms no longer met the definition 
of incapacity and the reasons preventing her from returning to work were work  related. In 
their final response letter  Legal and General said that this was because they thought the 
evidence suggested  that the reason for the current absence  was perceived work place 
issues.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Fs complaint. In summary, 
he didnt agree that the evidence showed  that Mrs F suffered from work place stress or 
perceived work-place  stress. He thought  shed  been  diagnosed  with a medical condition  
which she was still suffering from. And he thought  that the medical reports confirmed that the 
conditions were stopping  her from carrying out the main duties of her own occupation. So he 
thought she did meet the policy definition of incapacity  and recommended  that Legal and 
General pay the claim, including any backdated payments. 
Legal and General didnt  agree.  They  said they thought the evidence  clearly indicates work  
issues were the cause of absence  and shed be capable of performing this role for another 
employer. They also referred  to Mrs Fs lack of engagement  with her employer and that her 
underlying psychological distress was in the context of employment  dissatisfaction.  So they 
said that there were  longstanding work  issues that havent been  concluded.  
Mrs F also made some further  comments.  She pointed  out how stressful shed found  the 
whole process of dealing with her appeal and that three medical professionals considered 
her unfit to work. Mrs F also explained  that shed paid for some of the reports  herself. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal and General has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly  and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. When making  a claim its for Mrs F to demonstrate  
that she meets the definition of incapacity.  
Ref: DRN77559142Legal and General says that Mrs F no longer meets that definition. So when terminating  a 
claim for this reason it is for Legal and General to show, based on medical  evidence,  that the 
policyholder no longer  meets the definition of incapacity. 
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
Mrs Fs policy schedule explains that the incapacity definition  for her policy is own 
occupation. The policy terms and conditions say that this means  the insured member:
(i) Is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury  which  prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of the job he carried  out under his 
contract of employment immediately before  the start of the deferred  period, 
and 
(ii) Continues to be in employment. 
The insured  members capacity to perform the essential duties  of his own occupation 
will be determined  whether or not that occupation remains  available  to him. 
If following  the start of benefit payments under the policy a disabled  member is no 
longer in employment the above  definition will no longer apply  and change  to suited 
occupation. 
The policy gives Legal  and General the right to end payment of benefit if the insured 
member ceases to be a disabled member.  A disabled member is defined  as an insured  
member:
 
(i) who at any time,  in our opinion,  meets the incapacity definition,  and
 
(ii) is not engaged in any other occupation
Legal and General has also provided  the technical  guidance for the policy which  says:
A member is incapacitated  if: 
An illness or injury prevents them from performing  the essential duties required of 
their occupation
The policy goes on to say: 
Well pay benefit if medical evidence supports that they cant carry out the essential  
duties because of illness or injury.  
When we assess a claim under this definition well compare what  a member can and 
cant do (we call these  their functional capabilities) against  the essential  duties  of 
their occupation with a different organisation. 
We wont pay benefit if there are other non-medical reasons preventing  the member 
returning to the essential  duties of their occupation. For example, a non-medical 
reason might  be a lifestyle choice,  or a breakdown  in the relationship between the 
member and their employer. 
Ref: DRN77559143Legal and General can stop paying benefit in certain circumstances including when: 
The member  stops meeting the policy definition of incapacity. Well regularly review 
the members illness or injury so we can assess this. 
was it fair and reasonable for Legal and General to terminate the claim?
Mrs Fs own occupation is that of a Senior Business Analyst. At the point she left work she 
described her role as including  various  tasks such as managing  a team,  liaising with other 
departments and managing projects. This information is supported by the various reports 
Ive been provided  with which confirm  the nature of her job.
Her claim  was accepted  and therefore  Legal  and General accepted  that, at that time, she 
met the definition of incapacity as set out in the policy. As it is Legal  and General who are 
terminating the claim they need to demonstrate that Mrs F no longer met that definition. 
I think the key issues  in this complaint are whether there are non-medical issues  preventing 
Mrs F from returning  to work and whether she was able to carry out the essential duties of 
her own occupation  at the point the claim was terminated. 
I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for Legal and General to have terminated 
the claim on the basis Mrs F no longer met the definition of incapacity. I dont think it was for 
the reasons Ill go on to explain.    
At the point Mrs F was signed off work  there were a number of factors which  she identified 
as having contributed to her symptoms of anxiety and depression. The information Ive seen 
indicates that this included  Mrs Fs husband losing his job, Mrs Fs return  to work following 
maternity leave, Mrs F experiencing a miscarriage, strain on her marriage and work related 
stress. 
Legal and General primarily based  their decision to terminate the claim on a rehabilitation 
report prepared by a nurse and other evidence, including a GP letter. The rehabilitation 
report was part of a series of reports which had predominantly been conducted over the 
telephone with a nurse.  By the time that this final review took place Mrs F had been away  
from work for around 18 months. 
In that report Mrs F described  feeling  low and anxious, finding it difficult to deal with simple  
tasks and said she still wasnt sleeping  well. She did list, when  prompted,  workplace 
concerns but I note she said she was keen to have  an occupational health  referral. The 
evidence Ive seen  suggests it is most likely  that shed been asking for this for some time. 
The content of the report is consistent  with the information Mrs F had reported  throughout 
her contact with the rehabilitation  nurse and I think there are limited  differences  between  the 
core symptoms and issues she was experiencing when she first met with the nurse and 
those detailed in the final report.  
In this final report Mrs F said the cognitive  skills for her job were reading, writing,  listening, 
learning, memory and interpersonal skills. Yet earlier in the report  shed explained that even 
arranging to meet friends for a coffee would make  her anxious and stressed. 
The GP report, which was prepared around the same time said:
Ref: DRN77559144She tells me that she feels that her symptoms were definitely triggered by problems 
at work and stress  associated with this. This is confirmed by entries in her notes from 
other doctors. 
I can confirm that her anxiety symptoms  are likely to be ongoing  for the foreseeable 
future. It is also likely  that any problems  with communication regarding work and any 
pressure for her to return as likely  to exacerbate  this. Similarly her symptoms  are 
likely to be worsened by any ongoing stresses at work 
Ive not been provided with the relevant  supporting sections of Mrs Fs GP records  as part of 
Legal and Generals file and it is unclear whether theyve  obtained  the full records.  This letter 
somewhat contradicts previous  correspondence  from the GP. For example,  a letter  from 
March 2017 noted that Mrs F was diagnosed with anxiety and depression,  she continued to 
struggle with low mood at times and ongoing  anxiety, the main problem preventing her from 
returning to work was that undue stress was likely to exacerbate her symptoms  and that the 
GP wasnt personally aware  of any work related  problems which  had preceded the absence  
from work.  
Taking all of this information into account  I dont think Legal and General has demonstrated 
that Mrs F no longer  met the definition of incapacity.  I think more  weight  ought  to have been 
given to the wider  circumstances of Mrs Fs claim, which cited  a number of reasons for her 
anxiety and depression. And I think a more in-depth  medical review  ought to have been 
obtained before terminating the claim, particularly given the length of time Mrs F had been 
away from work, the complexity of her case and some  of the inconsistencies  in the evidence. 
In such circumstances  Id have expected Legal and General to obtain  a more in depth 
medical assessment  relating to Mrs Fs fitness  to return to work. 
During the appeals process Mrs F produced a letter from her GP saying that when she was 
last seen she was anxious and tearful and felt she wasnt ready to return  to work. The GP 
said that shed  seen Mrs F on several  occasions since shed stopped work and that Mrs F 
continued to get symptoms of anxiety and low mood.  
Mrs F also provided a report from an occupational health advisor, obtained  by her employer, 
which considered  her unfit to work  in her current role. In his recommendations the advisor  
said: 
The process and pace of recovery is a very individual experience however, it is my 
professional opinion that Mrs F may not have experienced the most appropriate 
support or treatment  interventions  thus far. It is strongly encouraged that treatment 
options should be explored  as soon as possible and a slow introduction back to the 
work place  when Mrs F feels more able.  
Mrs F also arranged  a telephone consultation  and face to face meeting with an 
Occupational Therapist,  at her own expense. This was a more  detailed and comprehensive 
report which concluded: 
Ref: DRN77559145In my opinion Ms F remains  unfit for work  at this time and is likely to remain  so until a 
change can be made in her treatment  and circumstances. In my opinion Ms Fs 
treatment is currently suboptimal  and I have made recommendations below to 
address thisit is my opinion that Ms F is currently experiencing an impairment of 
memory which is clinically significant  and suggest  that at this stage unable to 
manage her own occupation. Due to the substantial difficulties identified it seems  
clear that Ms F is unable to return to work at this time. However, with 
pharmacological and or psychological support in combination with a resolution of 
work-related issues and a gradual and graded return to work, Ms F does appear to 
have good rehabilitation  potential such that a return to work at some point cannot be 
ruled out at this stage. 
Im not persuaded that Legal and General gave adequate weight  to the later reports which 
explored Mrs Fs circumstances  more broadly or the wider context of the information  
provided by the GP. I note that both the occupational advisor and the therapist thought that 
further treatment options  needed to be explored. 
Legal and General has also argued,  in summary,  that Mrs F could carry out her role for a 
different employer. The technical guidance  they provided in response to the investigators 
opinion said that theyd compare what Mrs F can and cant  do against the essential duties of 
their occupation with a different organisation. But Ive seen no clear  or compelling evidence 
that a detailed assessment of Mrs Fs ability to work for a different employer has taken place. 
So this doesnt  change my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint. 
I can also see that Legal and General has suggested Mrs F isnt engaging with her employer 
about her perceived  work related issues. I dont agree  she didnt want  to meet with them 
face to face, and has given reasons linked to her medical condition for that preference.  
Mrs F has preferred to communicate  in writing but she has stayed in contact with her 
employer. I note that she paid for counselling sessions during the time off work to help 
manage her symptoms. She also made  it clear  that she wanted  to attend an occupational 
health assessment,  which she has done. 
As I dont think Legal and General has demonstrated that Mrs F no longer met the definition 
of incapacity I dont think it was reasonable for them to terminate the claim. 
I think Legal and General  should cover the cost of the report Mrs F paid for during the 
appeals process. Ive outlined above why I dont think it was reasonable to terminate the 
claim and I think  a more in-depth  report ought to have been  obtained  by Legal and General 
prior to that decision being made.  Instead  Mrs F had to gather that evidence as part of the 
appeals process  and pay for it. So I think it is fair and reasonable for Legal and General to 
cover the cost. 
putting things right
Legal and General should put things right by: 
Reinstating the claim and paying  any backdated  payments to the policyholder.  This 
should be calculated  from the date the claim was terminated to the date of 
settlement. The payments  will be subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions
Ref: DRN77559146Calculating 8% simple interest on the backdated payments from the date where  the 
first backdated payment  was due and paying that to Mrs F directly*
Paying the cost of Mrs Fs occupational health  report, subject to her providing proof 
of payment. 
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint against  Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.  Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs F to accept or reject  
my decision  before 4 October 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
*If Legal  and General considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from any interest paid, it should  tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also give her 
a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way she can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7755914