K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Public Loss Adjusting Group  Ltd (PLA), a loss assessing company he 
contracted with to handle his insurance claim made  following a fire at his home.
background
Mr Hs home  suffered a fire on 5 October  2017. On 10 October  2017  he contracted  with PLA 
to take over the management of his claim.  The contract he signed said (amongst other 
things):
In the event of a cash settlement I/We elect to pay PLA 10% plus VAT of the settlement 
monies.
Mr Hs insurer  wanted a schedule of works  to be drawn up so tenders could be sought for 
the reinstatement work from interested contractors. PLA took on this work and, following 
clearance of debris  from the property and an assessment  visit by the surveyor  a schedule  
was passed to the insurers  loss adjuster by the end of December 2017. 
Into January 2018 the scope was reviewed and revised and the revised scope was sent for 
tender. The tenders were returned  by mid-February  but the insurer had concerns about  the 
costs stated. The concerns were  set out in a letter to PLA dated 8 March  2018. On 
9 March 2018 PLA, at Mr Hs request,  made a complaint to the insurer about activity to date 
and that complaint is currently being  considered by my colleague under a separate 
reference.
PLA continued to deal with the claim and, in June, July and September 2018, secured three 
interim payments for building work from the insurer. The payments were made to PLA and it 
took a fee from each  before forwarding the remainder to Mr H. Mr H felt this was unfair, he 
thought PLAs  fee would only be deducted  from any final settlement paid by the insurer.   
PLA considered  a complaint made by Mr H. It said it was disappointed  to hear he felt its 
service had been poor. It said the fees were set out in its contract and that allowed it to take 
them from any cash amount paid by the insurer. 
Mr H complained to us stating that he hadnt  been  looking  to settle the claim in cash  and 
PLA had fraudulently taken £25,000 from him. Mr H also told our investigator that due to 
delays hed been forced into a position of needing to get the house fixed  but he wouldnt 
have settled in cash if hed known fees would be deducted. He also mentioned hed been 
spoken about badly by PLA in an email.
Our investigator considered the matter. He noted  the extremely  difficult situation  Mr H had 
found himself in but felt PLA had only taken fees in line with the contract Mr H himself had 
agreed to, and which allowed PLA to handle and seek settlement for the claim in the way it 
saw fit. He didnt  think  it had withheld funds paid by the insurer (except in relation to fees) 
and noted that all payments made  regarding  Mr Hs alternative living arrangements were  
paid by the insurer to either Mr H or the landlord,  meaning these  werent subject to a 
deduction for fees by PLA. He didnt note any delays and said he hadnt  seen  that PLA had 
spoken of Mr H badly  in its email correspondence. 
Mr H said he was disappointed.  He maintained  his position that if hed known  there was a 
fee to be deducted from any cash payment, he wouldnt have gone down the cash  
Ref: DRN72718682settlement route. He asked for an ombudsmans decision and the complaint was passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for the 
upset I know this will cause Mr H, Im not minded to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H entered into a contract  with PLA. The terms of that contract were set out and 
considered by Mr H, who signed  his agreement  to them. They stated that a fee would be 
deducted in the event  of a cash settlement being  made. The insurer did make cash  
payments against  the claim.  Therefore, under the strict terms of the contract, PLA was 
entitled to deduct its fee from those payments. 
I havent seen  any evidence that makes  me think PLA misled Mr H as to the terms of the 
agreement. And nor have I seen anything that gives me cause to think  PLA made  some  
other arrangement with Mr H  such as to have agreed to only ask for its fee once any final 
payment was made by the insurer.
I can see that PLA did carry out a fair amount of work for Mr H. So I cant  reasonably  say 
that it failed to fulfil its end of the contract to handle Mr Hs claim,  such  that it should 
reasonably forfeit the fee agreed to. 
Whether or not Mr H understood that PLAs fees would be taken  from the interim payments, 
I think he would have  progressed with the work. Repair of the property was clearly always  a 
priority for him and Im not convinced he wouldve been prepared  to wait for any outcome of 
his complaint against the insurer before taking action to protect what  remained of his home. 
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think PLA caused delays to the claim such that Mr H 
was forced  into a positon of undertaking work  he otherwise  wouldnt have done.  I see that 
PLA became involved early on in the claim and it completed the first schedule  for repairs. 
Given that clearance work was needed and the size of the scale of the reinstatement  work 
being scoped for, I think this was handled  in a reasonably acceptable timeframe. PLA then 
cooperated with the insurers further  enquiries  before making  the complaint on behalf of 
Mr H about the insurer.  Even after that complaint was made  PLA continued negotiating with 
the insurer and requested  interim  payments as asked for by Mr H. I dont doubt  that Mr H felt 
that undertaking work himself  was necessary, and in the circumstances I can understand 
that decision, but having looked  at everything that happened, Im not convinced Mr H found 
himself in that position as a result of any failure  by PLA.
I appreciate that the fees taken by PLA seem  unreasonable. And I know  they mean  Mr H 
has, through no fault of his own, been left with a shortfall for repairing his property. But Ive 
seen no grounds  on which  I can fairly  and reasonably make PLA return those fees to Mr H.
Im satisfied that PLA didnt withhold any other  funds  from Mr H. And I havent  seen that it 
spoke badly of him. I think the service it provided was reasonable and note that Mr H was 
largely happy with its involvement until the fees were taken. Im satisfied  that PLAs 
involvement did assist  Mr H with his claim and whilst its unfortunate  that involvement didnt 
result in a claim settlement Mr H was happy  with that doesnt  mean  its service  to him was 
poor or of no worth. I havent seen that it caused  delays or failed  him in any way.
Ref: DRN72718683my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Public Loss  Adjusting 
Group Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7271868