K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Savings and Investments, due to its faulty  computer system, 
couldnt process his debit  card transactions.
background
Mr S made a number  of attempts to take out savings products with NS&I  using  his debit 
card. But each time the transaction was declined. His own bank has said that it authorises  
the transactions but they are cancelled by NS&I.  It seems that the problem is a third party 
Address Verification  System (AVS) but no-one  seems able to sort this out. His wife is having 
the same  problem.
NS&I said that AVS was a tool to enhance  security  and that it hasnt been able to find a 
resolution to the problem  which has affected  a number of its customers in the same position. 
The problem arose because Mr S has a foreign  address  and it said AVS was particularly  
sensitive to this type of address.
The adjudicator didnt think NS&I had done anything wrong. She could see NS&I  had tried to 
solve the problem  but hadnt been  successful. So she didnt think  it needed to do more.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said NS&I had told him that some customers with a similar 
address to him had been successful in these transactions.  And whilst he appreciated the 
efforts of those he had spoken to at NS&I he didnt think the bank had done its best to 
resolve the situation. He said his debit card works  well in all other transactions in the UK.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is frustrated by this situation.  And I can see that he wants 
answers to a number  of questions so that he can understand what has gone wrong. Hes 
also asking for compensation for the loss of interest on his potential savings and for the time 
hes spent trying to put this right.  He believes that NS&Is inconsistent and unequal 
treatment of different  customers is inherently unfair .
I think both parties agree  a new AVS introduced in 2018 is causing the problem. And Mr S 
agrees that the individual members of staff he has spoken to have been as helpful as they 
can be. But he cannot understand why NS&Is system malfunction causing  unequal 
treatment of customers is not regarded  as a banking error. And hes concerned that one 
part of NS&I has admitted  that the problem  is caused by its computer system and one part 
has said theres no underlying error .
We try to sort out individual complaints. But we cant comment on processes which apply to 
all or particular section  of customers as in this case. So I cant help him with his specific  
request for a comment  on whether NS&I as an entity is to be held accountable for the 
malfunction of their computer system admitted by them, and/or their inability to rectify that 
malfunction given  all the information  they requested, as they would be accountable if one of 
their human  staff had made a repeated  and obvious  mistake - and if not, why not. And for 
the same  reasons I cant comment on any actions NS&I is taking in connection  with its 
computer system and whether there are any underlying issues.  
Ref: DRN73221832But I can look at Mr Ss experience with those processes and see if anything has caused him 
to lose out. Its clear there  has been  a problem  with a certain group of customers  trying to 
take out savings products with their debit cards. Mr S says that since  March 2019  he has 
been working with NS&I  on a work around method.  He says NS&I  told him this had been 
newly introduced  but shouldve  been  explained  to him in October 2018. 
I asked NS&I for further information about  the delay in telling Mr S about  the workaround.  It 
then offered him £133.58 loss of interest  from the date of its final response on 9 November 
2018 when it says it couldve told Mr S about the workaround, to the 15 March 2019  when  it 
gave him this information. It also offered  him an additional £75 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused. It made  an offer to Mr Ss wife but I cant comment  on that as its only 
his complaint Im dealing  with.
Mr S says this loss of interest shouldve been  from the date he first tried to take out one of 
the savings products in September 2018 but I dont agree.  It seems  that he first contacted  
NS&I about this problem on 20 October  2018. NS&I  made attempts to help him by amending  
the format of his address. That didnt work. So I think its fair and reasonable that the loss of 
interest is calculated from the date NS&I couldve told him about the workaround in its final 
response.
my final decision
My decision  is that National Savings and Investments should pay Mr S £133.58 loss of 
interest and £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7322183