K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) are refusing progress a claim they 
made under a legal  expenses policy they held with the underwriter.
For the sake of clarity, when I refer to UKI, I am referring to both the underwriter and any 
agent acting on its behalf. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a home insurance policy with Prudential (underwritten by UKI) which  
included legal expenses  cover. They made two successful claims against the policy  when 
they brought cases involving their neighbours (regarding to a boundary dispute), and 
separately the sellers  of the property, to the high court. The court ruled in their favour in both 
cases. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs C contacted the legal agent  they had previously dealt with to explain that 
their neighbours were  in breach of the court  order issued in 2003. In addition  to the breach 
Mr and Mrs C also outlined additional disputes that had arisen  with their neighbours more  
recently, including the erection of some  fencing. They  asked the agent to reopen their 
previous claim as the dispute they wanted  support with was, in their opinion, the same 
dispute as had been considered in 2003. 
The legal agent explained that it had ceased  providing Prudential with legal expenses  cover 
in 2005. This meant that there was no longer an active insurance policy between 
Mr and Mrs C and the legal agent. Indeed Mr and Mrs C confirmed they no longer had a 
home insurance policy with Prudential either. 
However UKIs agents agreed to look into the matter for Mr and Mrs C on the basis  that it 
may be a continuation of the original  claim.  In 2017 it appointed a firm of solicitors to 
consider the claim  and provide it with a legal opinion. The solicitors  responded by saying that 
they didnt believe  Mr and Mrs Cs claim had reasonable  prospects of success at court, 
meaning they thought there  was a less than 50% chance of the case being successful. On 
this basis UKIs agents refused to progress  the claim any further.   
Mr and Mrs C were understandably upset by this outcome and continued  to try to get UKI to 
reconsider their claim.  They believed that some  of the issues they were currently  
experiencing were  the result of errors made by the agents in 2003  and so they believed the 
legal agents had an obligation  to help them. In July 2018 they spoke to the legal agents 
CEO and it was agreed that it would provide support to Mr and Mrs C by looking into their 
current claim and providing them with legal advice. The CEO arranged for a different firm of 
solicitors to consider  Mr and Mrs Cs claim again and provide their opinion  on it. 
Unfortunately the relationship between Mr and Mrs C and the second firm of solicitors  broke  
down and no paperwork was ever submitted to confirm whether or not the second firm 
thought the case had reasonable prospects  of success. Mr and Mrs C have listed a number 
of concerns they had about  the individual solicitor appointed in 2018  and her ability  to 
understand their complaint in full. 
Following this UKIs legal  agents withdrew  the offer to consider the claim further  as the 
relationship between Mr and Mrs C and the solicitors had broken down. Mr and Mrs C didnt 
accept this and maintained that they were told they would receive  legal advice and support 
Ref: DRN77688622in this matter by the legal  agents  CEO and so it should honour that arrangement and pursue 
the matter on their behalf. They  maintained  there were multiple errors made by the solicitors 
appointed by the legal agent back in 2003,  and that these errors had resulted in the order  
not being properly enforced at the time. As a result they maintained that the agents  had a 
responsibility to provide  them with support now to ensure the matter  was finally resolved. 
The legal agents responded  by saying that it had considered the claim, but without 
reasonable prospects of success it wasnt prepared to take the claim forward. It relied on the 
terms and conditions of the policy to show that this was the approach taken  with all legal 
expenses claims. It also said that the offer to provide legal advice was honoured; it was just 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree  with the advice given and the relationship 
between the parties  had broken down.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the agent. They maintained that the issues all related back to 
the dispute heard by the judge in 2003 and so should be covered under the same claim.  
They also disagreed that the claim wouldnt be successful  and said that since the second 
solicitors had considered  the case their neighbours behaviour had worsened, which they 
believed strengthened  their claim.  They asked  for another prospects of success  review  to be 
carried out.  
One of our investigators  has looked  into the complaint already. He said that under  the policy 
terms UKI are entitled to refuse  to cover the cost of the legal expenses if the claim is 
deemed not to have  reasonable prospects  of success. He also found  that much  of 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  falls outside the jurisdictional remit of this organisation as it related 
to concerns they had in how the solicitors had managed their case  in 2003 and then their 
claim in 2018. 
In addition to this he also said that as the legal agent had stopped providing legal expenses 
cover under the UKI policy in 2005,  it was unclear whether there was a contractual  obligation 
for UKI to consider  Mr and Mrs Cs current claim as a continuation of the 2003  claim, and 
that this is something  that would need to be clarified by a solicitor or barrister before this 
service would be able to comment on it further. 
For those reasons he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with his findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint and so it has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to ask UKI 
to do any more in relation  to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and I would like to explain why.
In the first instance  I need to clarify that this service is unable  to comment  on complaints 
relating to legal  advice  or the actions of solicitors and barristers in how they run their cases. 
That is outside of our jurisdictional merit and not something this service can consider. For 
that reason if Mr and Mrs C have concerns over how their case was run in 2003, or indeed  in 
regards to the advice they received from solicitors in 2018,  they need  to direct these 
concerns to the legal  ombudsman. This service cant  make a referral  for them,  they need to 
do this themselves.
Ref: DRN77688623However I can consider  whether or not the terms of the policy have been applied correctly  by 
UKIs legal agent.  It is unclear whether or not this matter is genuinely a continuation of the 
2003 claim or whether it is a new claim. What is clear is that the legal agent offered to 
consider whether or not the claim, as it currently stands, has reasonable prospects of 
success. 
In this instance the legal agent sought advice from two different solicitors  firms  one in 2017 
and another in 2018. The first one stated it didnt think  Mr and Mrs Cs claim was likely to be 
successful at court. The second solicitor never submitted an official  opinion as the 
relationship between them and Mr and Mrs C broke  down before that was submitted. 
Without anything  to indicate the claim had reasonable  prospects of success UKIs agent  
refused to provide cover to Mr and Mrs C and the claim was declined.  
The prospects of success clause is a standard  exclusion set out in legal expenses policies 
and Mr and Mrs C have the option of obtaining a second opinion, either from another  
solicitor or barrister,  to argue that their case does have reasonable prospects of success. If 
Mr and Mrs C did this I would expect the legal agents to consider the second opinion  and 
whether or not it should reopen the claim.  If Mr and Mrs C decide to do this they would need 
to cover the cost of obtaining this second  opinion themselves. If the second opinion indicated  
there were reasonable prospects of success, and it was agreed  that the legal agents would 
provide cover under the policy after reviewing  it, the costs of obtaining  that opinion  would  
become recoverable as part of the claim. 
The issue  regarding whether or not this should be viewed  as a continuation of the original  
claim or is a new claim can only be considered once the claim has been  confirmed  as having 
reasonable prospects of success. Even  if the legal agent does accept it as being a 
continuation of the 2003 claim, there  is no obligation  on it to pursue the claim if it doesnt  
have a greater  than 50% chance of success. So this issue needs to be clarified  first.
There are also considerations  around  whether or not there  is an obligation on the part of the 
legal agent to provide ongoing  legal advice  to Mr and Mrs C in regards to their dispute with 
their neighbours. Mr and Mrs C maintain that in the conversation with the agents CEO  in 
July 2018 they were  promised ongoing  help. It is unclear  whether or not that conversation 
was an unenforceable offer of good  will or whether it resulted in a contractual  obligation on 
the part of the legal  agent to provide Mr and Mrs C with ongoing  support. This is something 
that would  need to be considered by solicitors or counsel, and not something that can be 
decided upon  by this service. 
Therefore, having  carefully considered all of Mr and Mrs Cs submissions, focusing  on those 
aspects of their complaint  this service is permitted to comment on, Im currently unable  to 
say UKIs legal agents have done anything wrong under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I know this will come as a huge  disappointment to Mr and Mrs C and I can only repeat 
that from my understanding the majority of their complaint relates  to matters this service  
cant consider. 
Ref: DRN77688624my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against 
UK Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7768862