K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains Domestic & General  Insurance  Plc took too long to deal with her claim on 
her appliance  protection  insurance policy. 
background
Miss C had an insurance policy to protect her TV from mechanical  or electrical  breakdown. 
Her TV had a fault so she contacted D&G  who sent someone out to repair it. After not 
hearing anything  for weeks  Miss C called D&G. She was told her TV couldnt be repaired so 
instead it would be replaced. 
After some discussion  over the next few weeks Miss C and D&G agreed  on a replacement.  
As it was an upgrade  to Miss Cs old TV D&G said she needed  to pay an upgrade  charge. 
During this time Miss C also complained to D&G  about the poor claim handling. Because  of 
the initial delays  D&G  paid Miss C £40 compensation. In addition  to this they also reduced 
the upgrade fee from £106  to £32. Miss C wasnt happy with D&Gs response so brought her 
complaint here. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Miss Cs complaint and didnt uphold  it. He found that D&G had 
delayed Miss Cs claim but had fairly compensated her by reducing the upgrade  fee and 
paying her £40. Miss C didnt agree,  she said she was without a TV for 8 weeks and had 
numerous long phone  calls with D&G.  
As Miss C disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Cs policy  says in the event  of a claim they will repair, replace  or offer vouchers in lieu 
of payment.  In the event of replacement  D&G  will replace it with a product of similar make  
and technical  specification. 
As D&G have now replaced Miss Cs TV Im satisfied  theyve done  what  theyre supposed to 
under the policy.  Ive therefore looked at whether they did this promptly.  It took around eight 
weeks from when Miss C initially raised  a claim to when she received her replacement took. 
During this time there were lots of discussions between Miss C and D&G. When  D&G initially 
offered a replacement TV Miss C wasnt satisfied with the options D&G  had. This is because 
the TVs were bigger  and not the same make  as her old one. Also, as the new TVs no 
longer had SCART connection Miss C had initially asked for one that did. I can see that D&G 
also offered Miss C vouchers to allow her to buy a new TV, but this wasnt  accepted either,  
as D&G didnt offer enough. 
From reviewing the communication between D&G  Im not satisfied they dealt  with this claim 
promptly. I say this because there  were  delays caused by D&G and Miss C had to spend  a 
lot of time chasing  them. Im therefore satisfied  that D&G should compensate  her for this. 
As there were difficulties agreeing a replacement TV D&G  has provided an upgraded TV, 
compared to Miss Cs old one, with a reduced upgrade  cost.  They  reduced  the upgrade fee 
Ref: DRN79809572for this from £106 to £32 as well as paying her £40 for the initial delays.  This means D&G 
has provided Miss C with a £114  worth of compensation.  Im satisfied that £114 is fair 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Miss C had. As this is the 
compensation D&G has already provided they dont need to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7980957