K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says that Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard (trading at the time as Littlewoods)  
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs W or Barclays sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN75982132copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (trading at the time as 
Littlewoods) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the 
business as Barclays  in my decision.  
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2003 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Im currently  not intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mrs W aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws credit  card application  form. On this 
form, section 7 was titled  Optional benefits . This section had Yes,  please can I 
apply for.  and No I do not require protection  options for PPI. 
A tick has been placed next to the option  to apply for PPI and Mrs W has signed the 
overall application to agree to what she was applying for. So I think this indicates 
what she wanted. Ive also noted  that there  was another option for a different  product 
called Card Protection on this form but it wasnt selected. This again supports that 
Mrs W chose  to take PPI understanding that it was separate  to, and not a condition 
of the credit  card.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W, and it seems to have been  right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Theres some uncertainty over whether or not Mrs W had a pre-existing medical 
condition (PEMC) at the time of sale. In her PPI questionnaire, Mrs W indicated that 
she did have a PEMC and had been  diagnosed in 2001. She also said that she 
managed this PEMC with medication and hadnt missed any time off work because  of 
it. 
In an email from Mrs Ws former representative,  dated 16 January 2019,  its been 
stated; Client only received SSP and had no other means and no PEMC. In 
Ref: DRN75982133fairness to Mrs W, Ive considered that she did have a PEMC at the point  of sale  
but I dont think  that the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable because  of this. 
I say this because,  based on what Mrs W initially told us about  her PEMC, it seems 
that it was under control and I dont  think that shed have thought  it likely that shed 
need to make a claim because of it. I also think its more likely  than not that Mrs W 
would have wanted to be covered for all of the other reasons why she might be 
unwell and unable  to work.  
Barclays also had to give Mrs W good  enough information so that she could decide 
whether or not she wanted to take out the PPI. Its possible  the information  Barclays 
gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Mrs W doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover   and 
based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to her. So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, but these  points dont  currently change my 
decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.
If either  Mrs W or Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (trading  at the time as 
Littlewoods) have  anything further  to add, they should  do so by 22 June 2019. Ill then 
reconsider the complaint.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7598213