K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out between 1997  and 1999. The 
policy was added to Mrs Ss credit card account  at some point between her applying for the 
card in 1997 and it being  replaced  in 1999.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it  although I can understand  why she can no longer remember this. Mrs S says 
Lloyds took advantage  of her because she was young at the time, but Ive seen no 
evidence that she was treated any differently from any other customer because  of her 
age. Mrs S was old enough  to enter  into a credit card commitment,  with all the 
responsibility that brings, so I think its fair to say she was old enough to ask questions  
about anything  she didnt understand at the time.
 Lloyds says it may have recommended the PPI to Mrs S, although given the length of 
time thats passed it doesnt have a record of this. However, even if it was 
recommended, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her based  on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time.  
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs S would have made a different decision  if better  information  had been provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about noticing the 
charge on her statements but not knowing what it was for. I cant see that Mrs S asked the 
bank to explain the charge, so this doesnt change my conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN73780362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  9 February 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7378036