K822xcomplaint
Mrs F, who is represented by her husband, Mr F, complains that PAY WEEKLY  LTD (PW) 
refused to let her reject a carpet.
background 
In May 2018  Mrs F entered  into a hire agreement with PW to fund the acquisition  of a carpet.  
Under the agreement  she is to pay £10 per week for 59 weeks and £1 per year thereafter. 
Mr F says the carpet was badly fitted and the grippers were left exposed. They werent  
expecting a join and say that the one which was made was poorly done. Apparently the fitter 
was rude and swore  in front of their children. They also say that a second fitter who tried to 
rectify the faults  damaged  some doors.
PW says that the fitter wasnt  employed  by it, but it has apologised and offered to replace the 
carpet and it has paid £40 in compensation. It also offered to forgo the remaining £40 due on 
the agreement. It also says that given the size of the room a join will be necessary and it 
believes it likely that the surveyor would have told them so.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who considered the offer by PW 
to be fair. Mr F didnt agree and said his wife wanted a full refund and for the carpet to be 
removed. He said the business had failed to live up to earlier promises.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire agreement,  in this case is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PW is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It seems  that Mr and Mrs F dont have any question  about the quality of the carpet,  but 
rather its fitting which was undertaken by a third party on behalf  of PW. They  also didnt 
expect a join, but I gather the room  is of such a size and shape that this isnt possible. 
However, I believe a fitter can install a carpet  with join which isnt as noticeable  as this one.
Ref: DRN78650672The photograph shows a poorly fitted carpet  and I am satisfied that it was not done to an 
acceptable level of quality. PW accepts  the fitting  has been poor and the issue  which 
remains is to find the most suitable  means  of resolving  the problem. 
Mr F has suggested  the carpet be returned and his wife be refunded. I dont think that is 
appropriate. Even though it may not have been properly fitted Mr and Mrs F have had some 
use of the carpet and if I were to order agreement be unwound I wouldnt consider a full 
refund to be appropriate. 
My view is similar to that of the investigator. I consider  PW should  be allowed to replace  the 
carpet and for it to be fitted  by another professional  carpet  fitter.  I put my proposals to PW 
and it said it would fit the carpet within 14 days of the acceptance of this decision.
I also gave consideration to increasing the compensation and asked  for the business 
contact records. Mr F also supplied details  of his phone record to show  calls with PW. After 
due consideration I dont  believe further  compensation  is due. In effect  Mrs F has had £80 
and I think that is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PAY WEEKLY  LTD to replace the 
carpet and to so within 21 days of acceptance of this decision. That is subject  to it being 
given unhindered access to the property. It should also forgo the final payments due 
amounting to £40. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs F to accept  or reject  my decision before 5 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7865067