K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr D and Ms H took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2004.  They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which just covered Mr D.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D and Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Ms Hs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Mr D and Ms H say they were previously  coerced into buying MPPI in 1999  when they 
were given the impression that having  it would improve their chances of getting  a 
mortgage with Bank  of Scotland  in 1999.  They say this is why they accepted MPPI in 
2004. However, Im not persuaded that this means the MPPI was mis-sold in 2004. 
Mr D and Ms Hs testimony  confirms that they understood  they had a choice about  
taking the MPPI in 2004. And that they made  their choice  based not on what  they were  
told in 2004, but what they were told in 1999. I think that anything Bank of Scotland  may 
have done wrong in 1999 is too remote  from the sale in 2004   which is what  I have to 
consider. And Im not persuaded it would  be reasonable  to uphold this complaint on the 
basis of something  that Bank of Scotland may have said about a different MPPI policy  
and mortgage  five years earlier. Especially  when  I think  Bank  of Scotland did make it 
clear in 2004 that Mr D and Ms H had a choice  about taking MPPI.
Mr D and Ms H only took MPPI  covering Mr D. They say Ms H planned to give up work, 
so wouldnt have an income to protect. But she hadnt given up work at that point and 
did have an income  that could be protected.  I think this reinforces that Mr D and Ms H 
should have known they had a choice about  whether or not to take the MPPI.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr D and Ms H, and it seems  to have been 
right for them  based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr D was 
entitled to sick and redundancy pay. But the MPPI wouldve  paid out on top of this for up 
to two years per claim. This wouldve ensured  their mortgage  was paid during any 
period Mr D was unable to work, and wouldve left their savings and Mr Ds employment 
benefits available for other things. 
I think  Bank of Scotland  couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr D and Ms H would still have bought it. 
Ref: DRN79177372Its possible  that Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr D and Ms H dont appear  to have  been affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr D and Ms Hs comments. But these points  dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr D and Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7917737