K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complained because she paid off what shed been told she owed on her mortgage with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. But a year later, she had a letter  saying she still owed the bank money.
background 
Mrs H planned to downsize, and take early retirement for health reasons. In December  2017,  
Mrs H paid £4,124.90  off her Lloyds  mortgage.  She made a further payment, for £3,430.24, 
on 2 January 2018. 
On 5 January  2018 Mrs H phoned  Lloyds and said she wanted  to pay off her mortgage. At 
first, the adviser gave  her a figure of £31,266.29. Mrs H checked whether that included  the 
early repayment charge,  and the adviser said it did. Mrs H then asked  whether  her two 
recent payments  had been taken into account,  and the adviser then said the figure was 
£23,711.15. Mrs H asked And that would then close my mortgage off?  and the adviser 
said yes. Mrs H then made a debit card payment  for this amount. 
During the transaction, the adviser  asked  for Mrs Hs address at which her card was 
registered. She gave  this, which  was different from the property address, and pointed out 
that this was the address  Lloyds had as her postal  address.
The adviser said the payment would be credited to the account within three working  days but 
would be backdated  to the date Mrs H had made  the payment. He told Mrs H that her deeds 
were electronic, not with Lloyds, so they were stored with the Land Registry. He also said 
that it was fine to cancel  the direct debit, and said it would take Lloyds 15 working days to 
close the mortgage and remove the charge  on the property. 
But the phone adviser had made a mistake, and he shouldnt have deducted  the two lump  
sum payments from the original figure of £31,266.29,  as theyd already been deducted. This 
meant that although  Mrs H believed shed  paid off her mortgage, there was actually still a 
balance of around £7,000.
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs H this. It wrote to her in July 2018 and August about the end of her 
mortgage product  which meant an interest rate change from 1 September   but it sent this to 
the property address, which  Mrs H no longer owned.  
Ive seen no evidence  that Lloyds sent anything else to Mrs H during  2018. Mrs H didnt ask 
why she hadnt  received  any paperwork confirming  that shed paid off the mortgage.  But 
Lloyds didnt send   even to the wrong address  - confirmation about how much Mrs Hs 
revised monthly payments should be to pay off this balance. 
In early February 2019, Lloyds sent Mrs H an annual mortgage statement, to her correct 
correspondence address. This was the first Mrs H had heard about her mortgage not having 
been closed over a year before. She rang Lloyds, and was very upset by this call. The 
adviser told Mrs H that she hadnt  paid off what shed been asked for in January 2018. Mrs H 
asked why she hadnt been  contacted for not having paid anything during  2018, and the 
adviser claimed that letters  had been sent.  She also asked why the payment had been 
changed from £367.41 which she had been paying, to £81.62 which the statement showed  
she should have  been paying during  2018.  The adviser thought  this was to do with base rate 
changes. Mrs H complained.  
Ref: DRN76550092In its final response letter,  Lloyds apologised that the January 2018 adviser had given Mrs H 
the wrong figure to pay off her mortgage, and the first figure hed given her had been the 
right one. Lloyds said that because of this, the mortgage had remained open  and interest  
had accrued. Lloyds  also apologised for having used the wrong address to write to her.
To put this right, Lloyds  said it had arranged for the balance to be brought  back to the 
amount it should  have  been after shed paid £23,418.27.  It said it would ensure that no 
further interest was charged.  Lloyds  also said that it was sending  Mrs H a cheque for £500  to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience.
In a follow-up letter,  Lloyds confirmed that it had removed all interest  from the date shed 
made the lump  sum payment, and her monthly payment would be £83.57 which was due by 
28 March.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She set out what had happened, and 
explained how upset  she had been by Lloyds mistakes. In early 2018  she had made careful  
financial decisions and had taken early  retirement during the year,  believing  that she was 
debt free and secure. And now she found she still owed the bank over £7,000, and shed 
had to prove their errors. Mrs H said she was left with a debt,  and shed agreed with Lloyds 
that shed pay £100 a month interest free, with occasional  overpayments.  She said that if 
shed known the real situation, shed have continued  to pay her previous monthly payments, 
and she felt this should be deducted  from the outstanding balance. She also asked for 
£1,000 instead of £500 compensation.
The adjudicator agreed that Lloyds hadnt  treated Mrs H fairly, but he thought that the bank 
had acted fairly in what it had offered.  He explained that our role is to put customers back in 
the position theyd have  been in if the error  hadnt  occurred.  And if Lloyds hadnt made the 
error, Mrs H would still have had to pay back the figure of around £7,000 which  was still 
outstanding. He thought  £500 was fair for the distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H sent a long and detailed reply in July 2019.  She felt the adjudicator hadnt referred to 
a catalogue of failure by Lloyds Bank Plc which delayed my knowledge of the ongoing 
situation of being in debt.  She also felt that the adjudicator hadnt referred to the emotional 
impact, or her careful money management  at a time of personal change.  Mrs H listed  a 
number of factors which she said the adjudicator hadnt addressed, including being bluntly 
told by Lloyds that she hadnt  paid the closing balance requested, and being coldly informed  
letters had been sent to her, when they hadnt. Lloyds had only sent two letters  over 13 
months, both to the wrong address, and neither of which  related to the mortgage  payment or 
risk to her credit file. Mrs H also said she was now receiving arrears letters which threatened 
her credit rating.
Mrs H also discovered that Lloyds hadnt  set up the remaining balance on an interest free 
basis, but on an interest rate of 4.24%.  
The adjudicator considered Mrs Hs response, but said that it didnt change his conclusions. 
He said he had taken  Mrs Hs personal circumstances into account.  He explained that the 
reason Lloyds hadnt sent any arrears letters during 2018 was because  the payment shed 
made had effectively put the account into credit.  He still considered  £500  compensation to 
be fair. 
Ref: DRN76550093But the adjudicator contacted Lloyds about  Mrs Hs statement  that Lloyds was still charging  
her interest  which wasnt what it had promised  in the final response. Lloyds checked its 
systems, and discovered that interest  was still being  charged. It told the adjudicator that it 
would get this corrected.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and asked for an ombudsman decision. While her case  was in the 
queue, she discovered in September that Lloyds hadnt corrected the interest  rate, as it had 
told the adjudicator  in July. 
The adjudicator went back to Lloyds about  the interest. It turned out that Lloyds hadnt 
corrected the account  to 0%, as it had said it would. Mrs H was very unhappy  about  this. 
Following a phone conversation between Mrs H and Lloyds in October, the bank wrote to 
Mrs H on 18 October  and confirmed in writing that:
-It had made a credit  of £320.39 in February 2019, for interest wrongly charged to that date;
-But it hadnt  set up the 0% interest rate at that time, for which  Lloyds apologised;
-Lloyds had applied an interest credit  of £202.16,  which was for the interest wrongly 
charged at 4.24%  from February 2019 to 10 October  2019, when it had been corrected.
-Between March and October 2019, Mrs H had paid £27.04 more than she should have 
done. This had been deducted from her outstanding capital balance; 
-From 1 November 2019,  the monthly payment  would be £68.45,  and any payment 
Mrs H made would reduce the outstanding capital balance.   
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  I noted that Mrs H had raised several points in her submissions to this 
service. I explained that I had understood and looked into all of these, but I commented  on 
what I thought  was vital to my conclusions.
It was clear from the 5 January 2018 phone recording  that the Lloyds adviser gave Mrs H the 
wrong figure,  because  he deducted her December and January lump  sum payments when 
these had already  been  taken into account in the £31,266.29  figure he first gave her. The 
adviser understood that Mrs H wanted  to pay off her mortgage, and as Ive set out above, 
confirmed that the payment she made would do so. He told Mrs H is would take Lloyds  15 
days to close the account, and Mrs H said so I need to wait 15 days.. at least? which the 
adviser confirmed.
This error about  the balance  was the fundamental mistake,  but Lloyds went on to make  
further errors. The documents showed that Lloyds did have Mrs Hs correspondence 
address on file in January 2018,  and when she made her payment she made  it clear  that her 
card was at her correspondence  address  which the bank had on file. So Lloyds should not 
have sent its 2018  letters about  the end of her fixed rate product, to the property.
I could understand  why Mrs H found it unacceptable  that Lloyds didnt tell her about the 
balance mistake until she found out when  she received the annual statement  which  the 
bank did send to her correct address. I found  it unacceptable too, but I thought the reason 
was that Lloyds computer systems had wrongly  assumed what  Mrs H had done was make  a 
payment in advance. So the account  didnt appear to be in arrears, and no arrears letters 
were sent (to the correct  or incorrect address) at that point.
Ref: DRN76550094I did, however, think it would have been reasonable to expect Mrs H to have chased  Lloyds 
for confirmation that her mortgage had indeed been  paid off. I thought  that any borrower 
paying off their mortgage might expect to have  some written confirmation  that the balance 
was cleared, even  if the deeds  were  electronic  rather  than physical. In the January 2018 call, 
it was clear that the account would be closed  in something over 15 days. I recognised that 
Mrs H had a lot going on in her life at that point and was planning major changes. But if she 
had chased for written  confirmation at some  point in spring 2018, the problem  would have 
been picked up sooner.
I also considered how Lloyds dealt with Mrs H when she contacted  it about  her shocking 
discovery that she hadnt paid off all her mortgage. I didnt have a call recording  for this, so I 
took Mrs Hs account  of what was said during that call. This included being told shed paid a 
different amount from what  shed been told, and being told that a payment reduction  from 
£367.41 to £81.62 was to do with base rate changes,  which was clearly  implausible. I 
considered it would have been  reasonable for Lloyds to want  to check the call recording,  but 
even so I considered  Lloyds  didnt provide good customer  service on that call.
I went on to consider what Lloyds offered Mrs H to put things right.
The fact that Lloyds adviser  gave the wrong  figure  didnt mean that Mrs H neednt  pay the 
correct balance. She still owed it under the terms and conditions of her mortgage. I didnt 
agree with Mrs Hs argument  that if shed known the correct situation, shed have continued 
making monthly payments of £367.41  from January 2018 to January 2019,  so that should be 
deducted from her balance. Mrs H didnt in fact make those payments, so it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to deduct this from her balance.
I did, however, consider  that because Mrs H didnt know she still owed any money  between  
January 2018  and February 2019, she shouldnt have to pay the interest  for that time. In its 
final response letter, Lloyds offered  not only this, but it said it wouldnt charge any further  
interest. I discussed Lloyds failure  to implement this later in my provisional decision, but I 
said that I considered  that offering 0% interest  on an ongoing  basis, not just during the 
period Mrs H didnt know  about it, was very fair. It was a considerable financial benefit to Mrs 
H. And Mrs H had, after all, signed  up to pay interest  on the whole amount she borrowed, 
when she originally took out the mortgage.  
I also considered the compensation which Lloyds offered Mrs H. I recognised that Mrs H 
believes that this doesnt properly reflect her distress  and the shock and upset  caused,  
because of her careful financial planning  prior to  as she believed   paying off her mortgage 
in early 2018. I bore in mind that Mrs H had said her credit  rating  wasnt affected at this time. 
This was because the account appeared to be in advance  rather than arrears, despite  no 
payments being  made after the lump  sum in January 2018,  but it did mean that Mrs Hs 
credit file was fortunately not affected.  The figure  of £500 reflects  a substantial  award,  and I 
considered that it fairly reflected the multiple problems which  Mrs H experienced up to the 
point at which she complained to this service. 
So I found that what Lloyds offered Mrs H in its final response was fair and reasonable.
But I went on to look at what  happened  next,  because the settlement  which  Lloyds proposed 
in its final response letter  in February 2019 wasnt properly implemented. As I set out above, 
what was promised in terms of interest rate was 0% on an ongoing basis. But Lloyds failed 
to implement this, causing  Mrs H extra stress. At the time of the final response in February  
2019, Lloyds did credit back interest from early 2018. But it hadnt  set up the 0% interest  rate 
Ref: DRN76550095for the future, which meant interest started  to accrue  again.  Nor had it calculated the amount 
Mrs H had paid during March to October 2019 which was more than she was due to pay. 
When Mrs H first reported this to the adjudicator,  Lloyds apologised and gave assurances it 
would be corrected, which the adjudicator conveyed to Mrs H. But she discovered a few 
months later in September 2019 that this still hadnt  been done. 
Lloyds letter of 18 October set out all the corrections, and from this it appeared that 
everything had now been corrected. But I considered that the fact that Mrs H twice 
discovered that the promised settlement hadnt happened, added  significantly to her 
distress. So I consider  that Lloyds should pay Mrs H a further  £200  compensation for the 
upset which  its repeated failure  to implement its offer caused her.
Finally, I said that it wasnt clear to me what Lloyds had been  reporting in terms of Mrs Hs 
credit file during  this dispute. It seemed likely that it hasnt recorded  any adverse information, 
but I said that Mrs H might wish to check by the date for responses to my provisional  decision. 
I noted that Mrs H also hadnt  said whether or not the new monthly payment would be 
affordable for her now that she only receives pensions.  I said that if it wasnt,  Lloyds should 
discuss payment arrangements with her.
So my provisional decision was that I intended  to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to 
find that, in settlement of Lloyds Bank Plcs  errors, the bank acted fairly in its offer to:
-credit back the interest it had charged Mrs H since January 2018, and the overpayments  
she made  between  March and October 2019;
-set her interest  rate at 0% for the rest of the mortgage; and 
-pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused  her.
But I provisionally found that Lloyds  Bank  Plc should:
-pay Mrs H a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
Lloyds repeated failure to implement the 0% interest  rate between the date of the final 
response letter in February 2018  and its letter of October 2019.
-I also said that, as set out above, Mrs H might also wish to check her credit file for any 
adverse information, by the date for responses to the provisional decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision.
Mrs H didnt accept the provisional decision.  She sent a long and detailed  letter.  In summary, 
Mrs H said:
-When Lloyds made the error  in January 2018, shed had the money  to pay off the full 
balance. But now she didnt. So it wouldnt be putting  her back in the position shed have 
been in if the error hadnt been  made  - unless the extra amount was waived. 
Ref: DRN76550096-She said that this service promises fairness.  But it wasnt fair for Lloyds not to have 
informed her for over a year, to have written  to a wrong address, and to have lied.
-Mrs H went on to set out what she said are continuing issues and errors. Shed received 
a letter from Lloyds  in October 2019  about a credit  of £127.07. But she said it was full of 
mathematics which she couldnt  understand, so shed  ignored  it. Shed then had a letter  
about the debt on 3 January 2020  which shed also ignored.
-Mrs H said that after receiving the provisional  decision, shed contacted  Lloyds as the 
January letter  had offered. But she hadnt  been  happy  with the service, especially 
relating to phone  numbers.  Mrs H said that if so many  errors  and lies had occurred in 
the sector  shed  worked in, the guillotine would be used, the press  would jump, 
complain and publicise  such.
-Mrs H also complained  that when Lloyds  writes  to her, it still quotes the property address 
on which  she took out the mortgage.  She objects because she sold that property.
-Mrs H said that financial  institutions  should be punished for errors  and lies. The 
provisional decision wouldnt put her back in the position  shed have been in if the error  
hadnt occurred,  because a great deal had happened,  and eight more years of debt 
wasnt affordable or fair.
Mrs H didnt respond to my comment in the provisional decision that she might wish to check 
her credit file before the date for responses to the provisional decision.  So I conclude  that 
shes either done so and there are no issues, or that she has decided not to check it. So I 
make no further finding on Mrs Hs credit file.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes careful consideration of 
Mrs Hs arguments against the provisional decision.
The fact that Lloyds adviser  gave the wrong  figure  doesnt mean  that Mrs H doesnt have to 
pay what she owes. She still owes the correct figure under the terms and conditions of her 
mortgage, to which  she signed up when she took out the mortgage. Thats only fair. If 
Lloyds error  hadnt  occurred,  shed have had to pay the full amount due. So she still has to 
pay the full amount due. It doesnt make  any difference that Mrs H says she had the money 
to pay in January  2018 but says she no longer  has it.
I recognise that Mrs H says it wasnt fair that Lloyds didnt tell her about the mistake for over 
a year,  and other matters.  I find thats properly reflected in the compensation which Lloyds 
has paid her.
I note Mrs Hs comments about  Lloyds  more recent letters, about the fact that she ignored  
them, and that she was unhappy about the service  when she did contact the bank. But this 
decision is about the original issue which Mrs H raised with Lloyds and this service  about 
the error  in January 2018 and what Mrs H still has to pay. The recent administrative 
inconvenience about phone numbers doesnt change  my decision.  But Id recommend that 
Mrs H doesnt ignore letters from Lloyds as shes said she ignored  the last two. Mrs H and 
the bank will need  to work together in order to reach an amicable agreement about  how 
shell pay off the rest of the money she owes. 
Ref: DRN76550097I recognise Mrs H would like this service  to punish Lloyds, But that isnt the role of this 
service. The regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority, is the organisation which  considers 
the conduct or banks.
Having reconsidered  the evidence, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions, 
for the reasons set out in the provisional  decision and above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Lloyds Bank PLC:
As it has offered to Mrs H, to:
-credit back the interest it had charged Mrs H since January 2018, and the overpayments  
she made  between  March and October 2019;
-set her interest  rate at 0% for the rest of the mortgage; and 
-pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused  her.
And also to
-pay Mrs H a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
Lloyds repeated failure to implement the 0% interest  rate between the date of the final 
response letter in February 2018  and its letter of October 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7655009