K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned down her claims under her pet insurance 
policy and applied exclusions backdated  to the policys first start date. 
My references to Allianz include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  I attach 
and forms part of this final decision. I said I wasnt likely to uphold  this complaint. 
In brief summary I thought that Allianz had been entitled to turn down Mrs Ms claim under 
the policy. In response to its questions I thought Mrs M should have told it about  the vets 
discussions with her about her dogs  undescended or retained testicle. If she had Allianz 
would have specifically  excluded any claim arising  from the retained testicle, including the 
one she made to it. In any event  I said Allianz  was entitled to turn the claim down because 
its policy excluded claims related to a dogs retained testicle. 
I invited both Mrs M and Allianz to let me have any comments on my provisional decision. 
responses
Allianz didnt have anything further  to add.
Mrs M responded to say she was grateful for my review of the complaint but was hugely 
disappointed that the additional information shed taken  the effort to supply didnt mean her 
complaint was upheld. She made  some  detailed points, which  Ill summarise  here:
She is absolutely clear that she wasnt asked any additional  questions  by Allianz than 
shes already outlined. She was not asked  the question about any signs of illness or 
injury. It should  be for Allianz to prove  the questions she was asked, but the 
burden of proof seems to lie with her. She has provided  strong supporting evidence: 
she noted the questions shed been asked in her first communication; she gave us all 
the documentation shed received with the responses shed given; nothing  suggested  
a reason to call to add further information; shed noted the changes  as compared to 
the current sales process; Allianz hadnt  been  able to show the questions  it had 
asked, even under a data access request; and in the phone call she sent us she 
wasnt asked the questions despite going through the sales  process again.  
Using an online research tool for historical  webpages the questions have changed 
from 2016 to 2018  and she sent us a link. The initial questions  and assumptions had 
changed (she gave examples). She couldnt show the quotation page for the specific 
questions but Allianzs response that its sales process hadnt changed isnt entirely 
truthful. So on balance the evidence suggests its more likely it didnt ask these  
questions than it did.
On the issue of reasonable care she would  have answered the questions in the same 
way today, meaning theres an issue with the questions. She also showed that 
Allianz said it was confident shed not deliberately  tried to avoid giving it information 
and it would therefore continue to insure  her dog. She was acting in good faith to 
Ref: DRN70613362move insurer, and the only reason for not providing more  information was there was 
no clear need and mechanism to do so.
It didnt occur to her to mention  the issue with her dogs undescended testicle to 
Allianz or to her previous  insurer.  Her dog was fit and well and showed no sign of 
illness before the claim. The vet didnt make  a big deal of her dog having only one 
descended testicle  nor did he recommend castration as the only route. It was 
mentioned only as a possibility  as Id noted. As shed mentioned  before  other policies 
clearly stated there was no cover  for removal of a retained  testicle, and Allianzs 
policy didnt contain the clause I set out in in decision. She referred me to the online 
tool to show how the policy  was written when she took out the policy.  
She didnt view the retained  testicle as a condition. She didnt make the link 
between the diagnosis and claim until after the MRI  and three vets didnt tell her 
this until after the MRI. It wasnt a deliberate omission but unclear questions and 
documentation that led to this issue.
The £50 offer for Allianzs service  wasnt  just for a slow response to the claim but 
because Allianz  failed to meet any promise in its claims process, its staff were  
unprofessional and suggested she hadnt  taken good care of her dog, promised to 
pay the claim and then didnt pay anything. Allianzs records  show  that it werent  
going to accept the claim but failed to respond  to her and it breached their 
timescales. The experience has been  traumatic on top of finding out her dog was ill 
and having to pay £6,000  costs.  My response is a further blow, suggesting  shes not 
taken due care when she always tries to do the right thing. She didnt accept the £50 
and other decisions  weve  issued dont indicate that was fair, even for small issues. 
Shes been unfairly treated.  Allianz  hasnt acted  in good faith and hasnt provided  all 
the data and information. She asks me to reverse my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ms further  comments,  but despite her clear strength of feeling  
they dont change my mind. I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons Ive already given 
and for the reasons Ill set out here. Ive focused  on what I think  are the central issues.
First of all, I dont doubt Mrs Ms integrity  at all. Its clear she didnt intend to mislead  Allianz, 
and Ive not suggested that acted improperly. In discussing  reasonable care  I was referring 
to the wording of the relevant legislation CIDRA. I dont think  Allianz went through  the full 
sales process again during the call when Mrs M asked to change the policy start date after 
the policy was set up. The price  for the policy had increased, so Mrs M decided to stay with 
the original policy.
Even if were  to accept,  on balance,  that Allianz  didnt  ask Mrs M clear  questions I dont think  
I can fairly make Allianz pay her claim.  The veterinary evidence  is clear that she was advised 
on more than one occasion to consider castration as an undescended or retained testicle 
could lead to cancer.  The notes say that: in 2011 she discussed castration with the vet, and 
she was to consider  removal as the retained testicle was statistically more  prone to be 
cancerous. In 2013  she discussed  castration  with the vet due to possibly intraabdominal 
testis, behaviour, and the vet advised to consider castration due to predisposition to 
Ref: DRN70613363testicular cancer. In 2015 Mrs M discussed  castration as her dog was more dominant than 
other dogs.  The vet advised likely  intraabdominal testis, more prone  to become cancerous.  
O[wner] reluctant to have  surgery,  would like to consider chemical castration for behavioural 
cause, understand  no benefit in regards to possibility of cancer.
I absolutely dont suggest any blame on Mrs Ms part, and clearly  this whole matter has been 
very distressing for her. But I think the veterinary  evidence of her vets discussions, made in 
the dogs clinical  notes at the time of each consultation, is persuasive.  I think  Mrs M was told 
about the cancer risks because of the retained testicle and she was advised by her vet to 
consider surgery. Its unlikely that any pet insurer would have covered anything linked to the 
retained testicle her dog, given the risk and the advice given to her by her vet. The fact that it 
took MRIs to diagnose the dogs abdominal pain doesnt alter my decision,  because the 
veterinary evidence is that the cancer  was directly  related to the retained  testicle.  
I appreciate Mrs M didnt consider the retained testicle to be a condition  or an issue for her 
dog. But for the reasons explained by the vet it was a risk, and that risk is one that Allianz 
wouldnt have accepted if it had known about  it. 
Ive looked at the policy information that Mrs M referred me to. The policy wording shes  
found online is effective  from September 2013. But policy wording does change over time.  
She took out her policy with Allianz in November 2016, and the policy wording that applied  at 
that time was the policy wording from 1 April 2016. The April 2016 policy terms and 
conditions included the wording quoted in my earlier decision that the cost of any treatment  
in connection  with a retained testicle was not covered. All the versions  of the policy  exclude 
pre-existing conditions and linked conditions.  
Although my decision doesnt  turn on this point it appears to me that the September 2013 
policy that Mrs M referred me to through the website link includes the same wording about 
retained testicles as the 2016 policy.
I appreciate Mrs Ms reasons for rejecting Allianzs £50 offer. I look at each complaint on its 
own merits and facts,  and where  I think a business  has made a fair and reasonable offer at 
the time of a complaint I wont interfere with that offer unless I think its fair to do so. Thats  
the case here, so I dont  require Allianz to increase  its offer for poor service. I appreciate 
Mrs M doesnt  accept its offer but I dont  require Allianz to pay her increased compensation 
or pay her claim. Its clear how disappointing  this is for Mrs M, and I am sorry for any 
additional distress, but I must  decide  complaints impartially based on what I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and here I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70613364copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned down her claims under her pet insurance policy  
and applied  exclusions backdated to the policys first start date. 
My references  to Allianz include its agent. 
background
In 2016 Mrs M took out lifetime pet insurance  with Allianz, having previously  insured her dog with a 
different insurer. In response to questions Allianz  asked her about  her dogs health she told it hed 
had kennel cough. Allianz said it wouldnt  cover  any claims for kennel cough under a specific policy 
exclusion. 
In 2018 Mrs Ms dog was treated for testicular cancer in an undescended  testicle. She made claims 
for his treatment. After reviewing the dogs clinical history Allianz turned down the claims. It said Mrs 
M should have told it about  the dogs  undescended testicle when  she applied for the policy. If she had 
it would have  excluded  any claims for retained testicles/cryptorchid and testicular tumours. It would  
review this if the testicle descended  or the dog was castrated. 
Allianz also noted Mrs Ms dog had been treated for a lump on his tail in 2016,  before she took out the 
policy. It put an exclusion  on the policy for tumours, warts, cysts, growths and abscesses. It would 
review this exclusion if her vet could give a diagnosis  for the 2016 lump. Allianz sent Mrs M a cheque  
for £50 because  it said it should have assessed her claim more  quickly. 
Mrs M came to us, saying shed genuinely not realised shed needed  to tell Allianz  about the 
undescended testicle. Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt  uphold it. He explained  
the questions that Allianz had asked Mrs M when she took out the policy  included anything shed 
discussed with her vet. If shed told it about the undescended testicle and the lump on the tail it would  
have put the exclusions  on the policy  from 2016. So Allianz didnt have to pay the claims. He thought 
£50 compensation for the claim  delay  was fair.
Mrs M didnt agree and sent a detailed message explaining  her position. The complaint came to me 
for review. 
developments
Following an initial review our investigator asked both Mrs M and Allianz for further information. 
Our investigator asked  Allianz for the full questions it says Mrs M would have been asked at the time 
she applied for the policy. Our investigator then gave the full questions  to Mrs M and spoke with her 
about the further  comments  shed made. Mrs M didnt accept that shed been asked those questions  
when taking out the policy. She said:
Shed made a written note of the questions shed been asked online at the point of sale. 
Shed been asked  a) has your pet shown  any signs of illness or injury, or b) been seen by a 
vet for any reason. She answered  no to a) and yes to b). She said she spoke to someone 
on their sales  line who said that been seen for any reason did not include regular  vet check-
ups  therefore, to answer no. She wasnt asked any further questions. 
Allianz didnt include  the questions shed been asked when she made  a data access request  
to it. The information Allianz provided  to us about the questions shed been asked to complete 
is incorrect. Also, at the time of taking out the policy  she believes it was underwritten by 
another insurance company, not Allianz.  
Ref: DRN70613365Shes noted changes to the online  process now:
oThe quotation includes a document with information about whats not covered.
oThe first two questions are the same but theres a third question about whether the pet has 
been insured  elsewhere before.
oThe documentation they provide with the quote has a description of clinical signs that wasnt 
there before.
oThe documentation they provide now has a specific clause about  retained testicle that it didnt 
previously contain.  
So Allianz wasnt  clear with her that she wasnt covered for her dogs later cancer.
 
Mrs M sent a screen shot of the current questions, together with the definitions of clinical 
signs and illness, and the testicle  exclusion.  
Shes not been able to find the definition  of clinical signs in the old documentation so 
wouldnt have known her dog wouldnt be covered. It is quite different  from the current 
description. She couldnt have known her dog wouldnt be covered  for the retained testicle  
when she took out the policy. The only reference to the testicle  is that it wouldnt pay to cover  
the removal  of a retained testicle. 
She referred to a general condition that to the best of her knowledge  and belief her pet was in 
good health when she took out the policy, and she wouldnt have said he wasnt in good  
health according to the definition.  
Mrs M has also sent us calls she had with Allianz,  which shed received under a data subject access  
request (DSAR). Allianz said it didnt  have them,  but has since explained  that this might be due to its 
call retention policy (where the period of retention had passed when we asked for the calls,  but hadnt 
when Mrs M asked for them under the DSAR). 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not likely  to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ive considered all the evidence about the questions Mrs M was asked when she took the policy out 
online in 2016. Mrs M accepts she was asked  questions and from her notes  and recollections  shes 
set out the questions above. Shes explained why she thought she was answering  those questions 
with reasonable care. 
Allianz hasnt  been able to reproduce its sales process but its underwriter says the questions  in 2016 
were the same as the ones it asks now. Both parties broadly agree about the initial wording of the 
questions, but theres a dispute about whether a third question about insurance elsewhere was asked.  
Also, Allianz  says that the questions it asked Mrs M included additional information  as follows (my 
numbering):
1.Has [pet name] shown  any signs of illness or injury  or been unwell either  now or in the past? 
This is regardless  of whether [pet name] was seen by a vet for the problem. 
2.Has [pet name] been seen by a vet for any reason?
3.Has [pet name] been insured elsewhere before? 
Allianz says that Mrs M answered no to the question 1 and yes to question 2, where  she told Allianz 
that her dog had kennel cough. This isnt in dispute. But alongside question 2 Allianz says that it 
asked:
Ref: DRN70613366Other than what you have mentioned, have you discussed anything  else with your pet about [pet 
name]? We need to know about any potential signs of illness or injury even if the vet didnt  feel there 
was anything to worry about at the time or even if the signs went  away quickly.
Allianz says that in view of the supplementary question above, Mrs M should  reasonably have told it 
about her discussions with the vet about her dogs  undescended testicle. Mrs M says she doesnt 
recall being asked  the supplementary question or the one about her dog being insured  elsewhere. 
She says she thought  her dog was in good health  so answered with reasonable  care. She says she 
was told not to tell it about routine vet visits. Shes also referred to the clarity of the policy conditions  
and the sales process, and changes that have since been made. 
Under the relevant legislation, which is called the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 consumers must take reasonable care to answer the insurers clear and 
specific questions. 
On balance, I think  its more likely than not that Allianz  did ask the questions  above. Its underwriter  
says the sales process hasnt changed and in my experience Allianz does underwrite policies by 
asking for the above information. Its not clear to me whether this is information  usually  contained 
under a DSAR  but this doesnt affect  my findings that Allianz is likely to have  asked these  questions. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Mrs M had with Allianz  after the policy  was taken  out and at 
renewal, but the questions werent repeated during those calls.  I couldnt hear the part where  Mrs M 
was told she didnt have  to tell Allianz about regular  check-ups, and Ive not heard a call from before  
she took out the policy   only afterwards.  
I think  that taking reasonable care Mrs M should have told Allianz about  her discussions with her vet 
about the dogs undescended testicle. I say this because the vets clinical notes, made at the time of 
each consultation suggest the vet discussed with Mrs M the fact that undescended testicles in dogs 
can predispose the dog to testicular cancer, and discussed with Mrs M the possibility of castration 
both in 2013  and 2015. 
I appreciate Mrs M was insured elsewhere until taking out the Allianz  policy. But I think  she should  
have told Allianz about the discussions with her vet about the undescended  testicle  even if she and 
the vet werent  worried about it at the time. The question clearly asks her to do so. If she had told 
Allianz about  this then Allianz has shown us that it would  have placed an exclusion on the policy  from 
its start date for any claims for retained testicles/cryptorchid and testicular tumours.
Mrs M has made a number of points about the clarity  of the policys terms and conditions at the time 
she took out the policy.  Shes  referred to other policies terms and conditions, with examples, and said 
if Allianz had made  its position  more  clear shed never have taken out the policy.
I appreciate Mrs Ms point, but if shed have told it about the vets discussions about the undescended 
testicle then it would have  notified her of the exclusion that it would have placed  on the policy  from its 
start date. She could then have decided whether to stay with her existing insurer. 
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions, effective from April 2016.  As our investigator has 
explained Allianz  has been the insurer  from the outset (as Mrs M earlier thought it was a different 
company). Also the policy set out the significant exclusions and limitations,  and explained  that pre-
existing conditions wouldnt  be covered. In doing so it referred her to the relevant sections of the 
policy.
The policy definition of a pre-existing  condition  explained it relates  to an injury or illness  (as defined) 
which is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury,  illness or clinical sign the pet had before the 
pets cover  started.  The policy  defines  illness  as any change to a normal  health state, sickness 
disease and abnormalities, including defects and abnormalities the pet was born with. 
Also, the April 2016 policy  did say on page 24 that the cost of any treatment for a retained  testicle (s) 
was excluded if the pet was over 12 weeks when  cover started (as here).  
Ref: DRN70613367The vet the dog was referred to in 2018 found the abdominal mass was compatible  with a tumour 
originating from the right ectopic testicle (ectopic means in an abnormal place or position). So even  if 
the vet didnt  initially know what was causing the dogs  illness the evidence is that it was directly 
related to the undescended testicle. So I think Allianz fairly turned down the claim under the policy 
exclusion.
Allianz also added another policy exclusion because of a lump on the tail. It said that the lump hadnt 
been diagnosed. Mrs M has said this isnt central to her complaint  and I understand shes renewed  
her policy elsewhere,  but she says this is an example of the service shes received from Allianz. I 
think Allianz was entitled to apply a policy exclusion  for the lump, although  Mrs M is correct  that it 
should have considered  the clinical information available to it at the time to narrow down the exclusion 
appropriately. But this doesnt change the outcome of the complaint 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im not likely to uphold  this complaint.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7061336