K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss J took out a regular premium PPI policy  in 2001. This was added to an existing store 
card she had and she paid a monthly amount for the policy.  Its been agreed in this case that 
FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Js case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss J says she cant remember  how the PPI was sold to her. FICL says the policy was sold 
during a telephone call over a year after she took out her store  card. Looking at a copy of 
Miss Js application form for the store card, I can see that she didnt opt for the PPI at that 
time, so I think the policy was sold during  a telephone call at a later date. 
During that telephone call, FICL should  have taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear to     
Miss J that the policy was optional. Miss J says she was not aware she had taken PPI and it 
was added without  her knowledge. Unfortunately FICL hasnt  been  able to provide any 
further information - such as a recording of that telephone call or a copy of the call script 
used at the time. So its not possible for me to know exactly what  was said at the time this 
policy was taken out. But based  on what I do know of the sales process at the time and 
given the fact the PPI was added a few months  after she applied  for the store  card, I think    
Miss J would have understood the policy was optional  when she chose to take it.
So on balance I think FICL made  it clear  that Miss J didnt  have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I understand why she cant remember  this.
FICL didnt  advise Miss J to take out the policy. So this meant  it didnt have to check  the PPI 
was suitable for Miss J. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Miss J says she had between three and six months  sick pay benefit from her employer. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out alongside any sick pay she had. And it wouldve also covered  
her if she was made unemployed. It doesnt look like Miss J had any other means   such  as 
Ref: DRN75331262savings  which she could  have used to cover  her repayments. So I think the PPI would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
From everything Ive been given, it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. And I dont think     
Miss J has lost out from anything FICL might have  done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.   
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7533126