K820x#14complaint
Mr O complained about how IGO4 Limited handled his cancellation of his motor insurance 
policy.
background
Mr O took out a policy through IGO4, his insurance  broker, but he asked IGO4 to cancel it 
when his car wasnt driveable. IGO4 didnt cancel the policy right away and he said that they 
then pursued him for money he didnt think he should owe. He felt that this had adversely 
impacted his credit rating. IGO4 accepted that theyd made mistakes. But they felt theyd 
resolved his complaint fairly  by waiving their policy charges. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
IGO4 had done enough to put things right.
Mr O didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IGO4 agreed that they hadnt  cancelled  his policy when  he asked them  to. He had to contact 
them about  a week later, when he noticed it was still in force.  IGO4  did then cancel his policy 
and arranged for that cancellation to be backdated  to the date hed first asked them to 
cancel it. This was to put him back in the same  position as if theyd cancelled  it right away. 
IGO4 have shown  us that they sent Mr O a breakdown of what he owed them  for his time 
insured and for cancellation and administration charges.  When he didnt pay the amount he 
still owed, IGO4 instructed debt collectors. Mr O complained to IGO4  as he said they told 
him on the phone  that he didnt owe anything. Mr O felt theyd chased the debt too quickly,  
and that they should  have tried to contact him again  before instructing debt collectors.
IGO4 accepted they didnt cancel his policy right away and as a goodwill gesture, they 
waived their administration  and cancellation  charges of £110. They charged Mr O only for 
the time theyd insured him, to the date he first asked them to cancel the policy,  which was 
about £25. This meant they refunded him about £85. But he was unhappy that theyd 
refunded the money to his account without his agreement. He didnt think their compensation 
was enough and he wanted £500. He said it was stressful to hear from the debt collectors  
and that it later caused a problem on his credit  record when he tried to buy a new car. He 
was also unhappy  that IGO4 still held his data.
Administration and cancellation fees are fees which  a broker will usually apply when a 
customer cancels a policy before it comes  to an end, and we think  reasonable charges for 
this are fair. So by waiving his policy charges of £110, I see that IGO4 are essentially 
compensating Mr O by that amount.  
IGO4 have shown  us that they sent Mr O a breakdown of what he owed for his time insured 
and of the charges and so I think that, even if they did say to him on the phone that he didnt 
owe anything,  theyre  not bound to that. IGO4 only charged Mr O for they time they insured 
him and I agree thats reasonable.
Ref: DRN70529762I see that IGO4 did send him an email about  the non-payment, before they instructed the 
debt collectors. He said that it went into his junk email and so he didnt see it. If so thats 
unfortunate, but I dont think thats IGO4s  fault, as theyd used his correct  email address. 
But because they instructed the debt collectors only about a few days  after their email, I 
think that it would have been  more  reasonable in the circumstances for them  to try to contact 
him again.
However I think that their waiver of charges of £110  was reasonable compensation for the 
mistakes they made. I dont think that it wasnt unfair of them to refund the money to his 
account, as it meant that he got the money  faster,  and his accepting that refund didnt 
prejudice him bringing his case to us. So I dont  think their refunding  it without his consent  
had any adverse effect on him.
And although Mr O thinks that IGO4  actions caused the problem  with his credit  record, IGO4 
say that they didnt  place  any information  on his credit record. So I cant say that it was IGO4 
that caused an issue there. And if he is unhappy  about IGO4 holding  on to his data, thats a 
matter that hes free to take up with the Information Commissioner. I see the investigator has 
explained that to Mr O and provided  their details.
I do see that the situation caused Mr O some frustration and worry. But IGO4  were entitled 
to payment for the time they insured Mr O and thats  all they asked him for. Although  they 
did make  some mistakes I think that IGO4 acted fairly to resolve  the issues,  and that their 
waiving the cancellation and administration charges was fair compensation for their delay in 
cancelling the policy and in instructing debt collectors when they did. And so I dont ask them 
to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019. 
 
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7052976