K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that her debt with Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) was transferred by 
them to a third party  without her knowledge. 
background
Studio Retail  has already  looked at this complaint.  They have explained that when Miss H 
contacted them to advise she was struggling  financially,  they agreed  to a repayment  plan 
and froze the interest on her account. Studio Retail say that, upon Miss H missing several 
payments, they then passed her account  to a third party. 
Miss H is unhappy with the actions taken by Studio Retail. She doesnt think her account  
shouldve been  transferred to a third party when she was already on a repayment plan and 
they knew about her financial difficulties.
Studio Retail  think theyve acted fairly and reasonably. So they didnt uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. Dissatisfied with the outcome, this case was referred to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. She felt that by Miss H missing payments, 
Studio Retail  had been able to transfer the account  to a third party.  And overall Studio Retail  
had acted fairly and in line with the account terms and conditions.
As Miss H is still unhappy, this matter has now been passed to me to look at
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I think Miss H did fail to maintain  her payments to 
Studio Retail. Under the account  terms and conditions  Studio Retail  was entitled to pass 
Miss Hs details to an external debt collection agency. This third party could then chase and 
collect any late payments. 
I can see from the evidence Studio Retail  has sent our service  that Miss H was sent a letter  
around April 2019  notifying her that her debt had been transferred to a third party. I 
appreciate Miss H says she didnt  receive this letter. But on balance, Im satisfied it was sent 
by Studio Retail. 
As there appears to have  been a breach of the agreement  by Miss H when she didnt 
maintain the required payments, I dont think Studio Retail has behaved unfairly by the 
actions they took.  And just like the investigator, I think Miss H did agree to these account 
terms and conditions when she opened  the account  online.
In terms of Miss Hs financial difficulties, I think Studio Retail acted  positively and 
sympathetically. I can see they provided her with the details of a charity  which  could help 
with any financial problems she was experiencing. And I note they also agreed to freeze the 
interest on her account.
Overall I dont uphold  this complaint. I consider the actions of Studio Retail to be fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN73110602my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7311060