K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  
trading as QuickQuid.  Mrs H says she couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed seven short-term loans for Mrs H between May 2010 and 
September 2016.  The loans ranged  from £300  to £600 and were repayable over either two 
or three months. Ive set out a summary  of lending below. 
loan no. application principal  amount 
(£)no. of 
repayments 
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 05/05/2010 400 2 480
2 04/08/2010 400 2 490
3 04/02/2011 300 2 367
4 17/09/2014 400 2 470
5 02/01/2015 500 3 632
6 04/12/2015 600 2 787
7 05/09/2016 300 2 374
At the point the case came to us, QuickQuid had already agreed to refund the interest and 
charges Mrs H had paid on loan 5. So the adjudicator reviewed the remaining loans  loans 
1 - 4, and loans 6 - 7. 
He felt from his review, that the checks QuickQuid carried out across all of Mrs Hs 
applications were  not proportionate. And initially  thought, from the evidence on file, that had 
QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised that loans 6 and 7 wouldve 
been unaffordable for Mrs H, and it wouldve therefore not have agreed to them.  
QuickQuid raised further arguments in response to his opinion. And based on these 
arguments, the adjudicator revised  his opinion, and set out that he thought QuickQuid was 
wrong in agreeing to just loan 6. 
Mrs H raised no objections  to the findings.  QuickQuid  responded  further, disagreeing with 
the assessment  still. So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As loans  1  5, and loan 7 no longer seem to be in dispute, my decision will focus on the 
remaining loan - loan 6.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability 
assessments. It said that in line with its internal process, at the time of each application, it 
conducted its standard credit assessment, which it said included analysing  Mrs Hs current 
Ref: DRN74585382financial commitments, insolvency records, delinquency records,  County Court judgements,  
credit enquiries and other credit accounts  currently  open.
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks when Mrs H applied for loan 6. And thought  that had it done so, it 
wouldve likely understood this loan would not have been sustainably  affordable  for her. 
These findings were  set out in some  detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, QuickQuids also said it started implementing 
changes to its affordability assessment in June 2014  and all of the changes were completed  
by 28 February 2015. And that Starting  01 March 2015 before Mrs H took out loan 6, 
QuickQuid had implemented an affordability review that was consistent  with the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  Handbook, and was in place at the time it received authorisation by 
the FCA. And that its assessment  was conducted  properly and individually  for this loan.
But our job is to look not only into the rules  and regulations set by the regulator at the time of 
borrowing but also the law, good  industry  practice and all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to help us decide whether we think what QuickQuid  has done is right or not. And 
in this case, I don't think it was right to provide Mrs H with loan 6.
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance on how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mrs Hs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mrs H took out loan 6. Bearing in mind  the rules  and 
guidance set out in its Principles for Business (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), I would expect a lenders  affordability assessment to vary with circumstance. (I am 
not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would expect QuickQuid  to be 
conversant with these  through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent decisions, 
which set these out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
Ref: DRN74585383-the longer  the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics of Mrs Hs complaint, at the time she took out loan 6, shed been 
borrowing from QuickQuid on and off for around five and a half years. And the amounts she 
was borrowing were  steadily increasing. 
And while there had been a gap of around seven months between when Mrs H finished  
repaying loan 5, and when she took out loan 6, shed also needed to defer the capital  
repayment on loan 5 to a later date, accruing both late fees, and default interest charges. So 
while I consider there had been  a gap, QuickQuid still needed  to ensure it did enough, to 
check that Mrs H could  afford to meet the repayments on this loan sustainably.  
Ive thought about the checks QuickQuid said it did. And given Mrs Hs history at this point, 
Im not persuaded that QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks.  But even if I had 
concluded its checks were proportionate, I still dont  think it was responsible  for QuickQuid to 
have approved Mrs Hs application for loan 6, given what  those checks seem to have 
revealed.
From what  I can see, QuickQuid recorded  Mrs Hs monthly income as £2,250 and her 
monthly outgoings as £1,525 at the time she applied. This seems to have  left her with a 
monthly disposable income of around £725. QuickQuid has then reduced  this figure as a 
result of further checks it carried out, and produced a figure of £580, which it has called her 
estimated disposable income  (EDI). And then seems to have used  this figure to assess  the 
affordability of this loan for Mrs H. Based on which,  it felt the loan was affordable.  
QuickQuid has said that the total cost of the loan was £268, and that it used this figure when 
calculating the affordability of this loan for Mrs H. But this figure  actually seems  to represent 
the total cost of interest and charges across  the term of the loan, and doesnt include the 
capital that Mrs H was also expected  to repay.
The repayment schedule  set out on the agreement, shows  that the loan was due to be 
repaid over two months. This consisted of an initial repayment of £81, followed by a second 
repayment of £787  around a month later. Given that Mrs H was expected to repay more in 
the second month than in the first month, QuickQuid needed to check that Mrs H could 
afford to meet the repayments as scheduled. 
The consumer credit sourcebook, part of which sets out the requirements for lenders when 
assessing the credit worthiness of a customer, states that: before making a regulated credit 
agreement: (2) A firm carrying  out the assessment  required  in (1) must consider: (b) the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due (my emphasis) over the life 
of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
So when I look at the EDI QuickQuid itself calculated of £580;  and in light of what QuickQuid 
knew about both the size of the new monthly repayments, and Mrs Hs history of not being  
able to comply with the terms  of similar loans;  I dont think in this instance, it was fair, or 
reasonable, for QuickQuid to have thought that Mrs H could afford to meet the repayments  
on loan 6, as and when they fell due. And as a responsible lender, I dont think  QuickQuid 
shouldve agreed  to this loan, knowing what it did. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
Ref: DRN74585384QuickQuid has already agreed  to refund the interest  and charges  Mrs H paid on loan 5, and 
it should still do this. And for the reasons outlined above,  I also think  QuickQuid  should  not 
have agreed to loan 6 for Mrs H. So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Mrs H 
paid on this loan as well.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  in January 2015 and 
December 2015
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  payment  information  about these loans from Mrs Hs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7458538