K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains he was charged  early settlement fees when he repaid two TSB Bank  plc 
loans, despite  being told he wouldnt.  
background
Mr C had two loans  with TSB that he wanted to settle early, so he asked for early  settlement 
quotes in November 2018. Mr C then went into branch  In December 2018 with two cheques 
for the amounts he was told. However,  because  another payment had been taken, the 
settlement figures  were no longer correct. So Mr C paid the cheques into his savings 
account.  
Mr C went back  into branch  at the end of December 2018. He says he was told to repay all 
but some  of the current balance of the loans which would  mean  he would avoid paying early 
settlement fees.  Mr C did this, leaving two outstanding balances of £4.06 and £4.65. He says 
he intended to settle the loans by repaying  the outstanding balances the following month  
and wouldnt  be charged any further interest  or fees.  
Although Mr C cancelled  his direct debits  for the loans they were still taken which meant  the 
loans were repaid  in full in January 2019 and early settlement fees were charged.  The direct 
debits were later returned unpaid which  left an outstanding balance on both accounts made 
up of the remaining outstanding balances  and early settlement fees.  No further  payments 
were made since January  2019, and further  interest and charges have been applied.     
Mr C complained to TSB because he thought  he had followed its instruction to settle his 
loans. TSB accepted  that Mr C couldve been  misinformed. It offered him £50 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused, but said that the terms  of Mr Cs loans say that early 
repayment fees will be applied if repaid  early,  so hed need  to pay the outstanding balances.  
Mr C referred  a complaint  to our service. Our investigator found Mr Cs version of events 
persuasive. She concluded  that Mr C was likely told incorrect  information in branch. 
However she also said Mr C would always have  needed to pay an early  settlement fee if he 
repaid the loans early. 
Our investigator said Mr C should pay the outstanding balances  and the early  settlement 
fees that he would have  needed to pay in December  2018 and TSB should then close  both 
accounts. She also said Mr Cs credit file should  be amended to reflect that both accounts 
were settled in full in December  2018.  Our investigator said the £50 compensation TSB paid 
Mr C for the misinformation  it gave was fair. 
TSB accepted the investigators findings but Mr C didnt. He didnt think he should pay any 
early settlement charges. Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case has been 
passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN75277662From what  Ive seen I think its clear that Mr C wanted to settle both of his loans in 
November 2018.  Thats why he asked for an early settlement quote in November 2018, and 
subsequently went back to branch in December 2018. 
Like our investigator,  I find Mr Cs assertion that he was advised not to pay the whole 
outstanding balance of each loan plausible and persuasive. I believe he likely otherwise 
would have repaid both loan as its clear he had the funds  and intention  to do so. Im 
satisfied its likely that Mr C received incorrect information in branch about how to avoid 
paying early settlement fees. 
Its understandable  that Mr C is unhappy with the prospect of having to pay early settlement 
fees despite what he was told. However, regardless of what Mr C was told in branch, by 
settling his loans  early he would always have been  charged early settlement fees.  
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of both of Mr Cs loans. I think they clearly explain 
that where the loans are settled early  TSB will charge up to 58 days worth of interest. And 
Im satisfied that the early settlement quotes also made it clear that the settlement figures 
were based  on the loan balance, amount of interest  due at the quote  date plus up to an 
additional 58 days interest for repaying the loan earlier than planned. As a result, Im 
satisfied that regardless  of what Mr C was told in branch, hed need  to pay those  fees.
I imagine that Mr C is very frustrated that TSB gave him incorrect information. But that 
doesnt mean that it should write of the balance of his loans as hes asked. I think Mr C 
should be compensated for the trouble  and upset caused by TSBs actions, but I think  that 
the £50 compensation its offered is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc should treat both of 
Mr Cs loans as settled  in full on the basis that he pays it the outstanding balances of £4.06 
and £4.65, plus early settlement fees that were applicable in December 2018. It should then 
reflect on Mr Cs credit file that the accounts were settled in full in December 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7527766