K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) turned down the 
cancellation claim they made under  their travel insurance policy.  
My references to URV include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out an annual travel insurance  policy with URV, via a broker,  when they 
started booking an overseas holiday  in January 2018. They were due to go away 
in August 2018, but cancelled the holiday a couple  of days beforehand  when Mrs As mother  
died.
Mr and Mrs A were  unable to get a refund for much  of the holiday costs  so made a claim on 
their travel insurance policy. But URV declined the claim  saying:
The policy terms and conditions excluded cancellation claims arising  from a pre-existing 
medical condition  of a close  relative. And pre-existing medical conditions were defined  
as any serious or recurring  medical condition which has been  previously diagnosed, 
investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel.
Mrs As mother was diagnosed with a heart  condition some years before the policy was 
taken out, which  was noted as being  a contributing  factor  to her death. So the reason the 
holiday was cancelled  was due to a pre-existing condition.
Mr and Mrs A asked  URV to reconsider the claim and it subsequently  got in touch with 
Mrs As mothers GP to find out more about  her illness. But URV remained satisfied it was 
fair to rely on the pre-existing condition of a close relative clause in order to decline the 
claim. Mr and Mrs A didnt accept this and asked us to look into their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why I thought  Mr and Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld  and their claim paid. I said, in summary, that:
I didnt think URV  had done  enough  to show the exclusion it had sought to rely on 
applied in this particular case.
The policy terms say, in effect,  that cover of up to £5,000  is available  if the policyholder  
is unable to go on their trip due to a close relatives death. And it was right of URV to 
point out that there were some  circumstances, relating to existing medical conditions, 
when the benefit  wont be paid. But I thought URV had pointed to the wrong  definition  of 
existing medical condition when it declined Mr and Mrs As claim.
The cancellation related to Mrs As mother medical condition so I thought  the part of the 
definition that should apply was that relating to a non-travelling close relative. So, an 
existing medical condition applicable in Mr and Mrs As case  was one for a which  a 
terminal prognosis has been  received prior to the purchase of the policy or booking the 
trip (whichever is later): or for which they were on a waiting list for treatment or had the 
knowledge of the need for surgery.
I thought URV had had sufficient opportunity to gather  evidence  in relation to the claim.  
And I considered  the evidence itd obtained  from Mrs As mothers  GP about her state  of 
Ref: DRN77237222health. Having  done so, I didnt think there  was anything  which  showed shed been  given 
a terminal prognosis,  or was on a waiting list for treatment  or had the knowledge of the 
need for surgery before the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs A accepted my provisional findings.  And URV agreed to pay the claim. But it 
asked whether to limit the benefit given that the cancellation section of the policy said the 
claim amount would be limited to:
"the cancellation charges  applicable on the date the GP initially  diagnosed or 
investigated the condition, or at the point a declared  existing  medical  condition  
deteriorated and required medical attention, or referral.  No payments/cancellation 
charges after this date will be reimbursed."
URV proposed that it might be appropriate to limit the cancellation benefit to that applicable 
in Spring 2018, when Mrs As mothers  GP said she was experiencing end-stage cardiac 
disease.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  now accepted the claim should be paid, I wont  revisit that element of 
the complaint.  But I will comment  on URVs suggestion that the cancellation benefit should  
be limited.
In my experience, travel insurance  policies  often contain the sort of limitation  in the 
cancellation section  of cover that URV  has referred  to here. And its for this reason that most 
insurers will expect policyholders to let them know, as soon as possible,  about any changes  
in health. 
With that in mind, I can see the policy terms and confirmation of cover  letters  Mr and Mrs A 
were sent all talk about the need to let URV  know about changes in health.  But I dont think 
Mr and Mrs A shouldve  realised they needed to tell URV about Mrs As mothers  changes in 
health (assuming  they even knew about  it, which Mr and Mrs A have disputed)  and I say this 
because:
The letters say only that It is a requirement of your policies that you advise us of any 
changes in your healthas soon as possible. Any delay may mean  that you do not have 
continuing cover, or if it is necessary to cancel your trip, that you do not/will  not receive 
as much as you have paid for the trip [my emphasis].
The policy terms says if your health or your ongoing medication changes  between the 
date the policies were  bought and the date of travel you must advise usas soon as 
possible [my emphasis]. 
I dont think the section of the policy URV  quoted is particularly clear.  As Ive already 
said, the existing  medical condition definition  is split in two  one section applicable to 
the policyholder  and the second  applicable to non-travelling close  relatives.  Yet the 
cancellation section  merges these and doing  so, I think, creates a degree  of ambiguity. 
Also, Mrs As mother  was already  somewhat unwell when  they booked the holiday and 
took out the policy so they likely wouldnt have thought a cancellation claim would be 
Ref: DRN77237223limited on the date the GP initially diagnosed  or investigated the condition. And the 
obligation to let URV know if a declared  existing medical condition  deteriorated  wouldnt 
likely have seemed  relevant  in Mr and Mrs As case because there was no need  to 
declare any existing medical conditions applicable to non-travelling close  relatives.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont  think URV made it sufficiently clear 
that it expected  Mr and Mrs A to tell them sooner about Mrs As mothers  declining  health. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to limit the cancellation benefit  in the way URV has 
suggested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Union Reiseversicherung AG to 
pay Mr and Mrs As cancellation claim,  subject  to the policy  limit and any applicable  excess. 
URV must add interest to the claim payment at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date 
of settlement  to the date it pays Mr and Mrs A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7723722