K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss representative, a Claims Management  Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by National Westminster Bank Plc. 
The CMC says:
Mr S was advised to take too much  risk with his money.
He was made fully aware, by the adviser,  as confirmed  in the recommendation letter,  
that there was an element of risk involved and that the value of his investment could 
fluctuate.
By recommending  that he invest £10,000  in a single bond the adviser has offered no 
diversification of investment product  which  left Mr S over reliant  on one particular 
outcome, thus placing his funds at greater risk.
The bond was linked  to the stock market to achieve growth,  which is speculative. The 
risk of achieving a nil return on such a significant  portion  of Mr S's funds was 
unreasonable.
He had no previous  experience of risk based investments and was financially naive 
at the time the advice was given.
The complexity of the product recommended was unsuitable for an investor with no 
prior investment experience.
He has always previously held money on deposit. 
He was not allowed time to fully consider the advice he was given, or the 
recommendation made,  before investing his money.
He recalls there being only one meeting with the adviser at which the advice was 
given and all associated  paperwork  completed. 
background
In my provisional decision of 31 January 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint.  In summary, I said:  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I wasnt  satisfied that Mr S understood 
how the policy worked, or the risk of no return. In the circumstances, I wasnt  able to 
safely say that the policy documentation made  these points clear. 
I said I require the business to pay Mr S redress, of D + E, where:
oA = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital Bond (the 
bond);
oB = interest at the rate available for a three and a half year fixed  rate bond at 
the time.  In this instance 5% is the bond rate mentioned.  
oC = the actual value of the bond at the date it matured;    
oD = A + B  C;
oE = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
The CMC has already accepted my decision.
The business responded and asked if the interest rate was subject to tax? Its happy to pay 
the rate suggested by me  net of tax. 
Ref: DRN75214222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, including all response  to my further provisional decision,  I still think the rate 
of 5% is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im grateful that the business agrees with 
this. 
In answer to the business question I thought I had made it clear saying If the business 
considers that it should deduct  income tax from the interest calculated in B above, it must 
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  Mr S may reclaim any tax overpaid  from 
HM Revenue and Customs, if his circumstances permit him to do so. 
In other  words the business may pay the interest  net of tax, so long as it provides a tax 
deduction certificate. Otherwise if its simply a notional deduction that Mr S has no way of 
claiming back  providing that hes eligible to do so  I dont think its fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.   
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr S redress,  of D + E, where:
A = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital Bond (the bond);
B = interest at the rate available for a three and a half year fixed  rate bond at the 
time, or similar.
C = the actual value of the bond at the date it matured;    
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that it should deduct  income  tax from the interest 
calculated in B above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr S may 
reclaim any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if his circumstances permit  him to 
do so, unless the tax deduction certificate  wouldnt be applicable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN75214223COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr Ss representative,  a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains  on his behalf that he was 
given unsuitable investment advice by National Westminster Bank Plc. 
The CMC says:
Mr S was advised  to take too much  risk with his money.
He was made fully aware, by the adviser, as confirmed in the recommendation letter,  that 
there was an element  of risk involved  and that the value of his investment  could fluctuate.
By recommending that he invest £10,000 in a single  bond the adviser has offered no 
diversification of investment product  which  left Mr S over reliant on one particular outcome, 
thus placing his funds at greater risk.
The bond  was linked to the stock market  to achieve growth, which is speculative.  The risk of 
achieving a nil return on such a significant  portion of Mr S's funds  was unreasonable.
He had no previous  experience of risk based investments and was financially naive at the 
time the advice was given.
The complexity  of the product recommended was unsuitable for an investor with no prior 
investment experience.
He has always previously held money on deposit. 
He was not allowed  time to fully consider  the advice he was given, or the recommendation 
made, before investing  his money.
He recalls there being only one meeting with the adviser at which  the advice was given and 
all associated paperwork completed. 
background
In my provisional decision of 12 December  2018, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint.  In 
summary, I said:  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I wasnt satisfied that Mr S understood how the 
policy worked, or the risk of no return.  In the circumstances, I wasnt able to safely say that 
the policy  documentation made these points clear. 
I said I require the business to pay Mr S redress, of D + E, where:
oA = the original investment of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital  Bond (the bond);
oB = interest at the rate available for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at the 
time, or similar.
oC = the actual value of the bond at the date it matured;    
oD = A + B  C;
oE = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum  simple  from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.  
The CMC responded and accepted my decision. 
The business  responded  and asked for clarification regarding the redress methodology. Using  
Moneyfacts I said that the three  and a half year fixed rate bond at the time was around 5% on 
average, based on a three year fixed rate bond. 
The business  disagreed with my proposed redress, in summary it said:
Ref: DRN75214224The 5% rate wasnt fair, as fixed rate bond  rates fell after 2009.  It said The BoE average 
bond rate had reduced to 2.5% by that date and was rarely above 3% for the rest of the 
period concerned.
Mr S was a basic rate tax payer and would have benefitted from a net return  of 4%. 
Also it would be offering compensation in lieu of this return and not interest subject to tax, no 
certificate for the deduction of tax would be applicable. 
If it transpired  that Mr S was a non-tax  payer  at the date of the theoretical maturity of the two 
year bond, if would be fair to offer compensation equivalent to gross returns.
It would  be fair to offer compensation equivalent to returns based on Mr S holding the 2 year 
bond  which was available to it at the time  and then calculating the remaining  1.5 years at 
average fixed rate bond rates, plus interest.
Or, for simplicity, average fixed rate bond rates for the whole 3.5 year term,  and on the basis  
that it is not known what Mr S would have done and such returns would be commensurate to 
the amount by which he would have otherwise benefited. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reconsidered the case, including all responses to my provisional decision,  I still think the rate 
of 5% is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
In light of the central  issue of how best to place  the Mr S back  in the position  he would  have been in, 
but for the business  mistake, my conclusion  is as follows:
I think  the business  should  calculate what Mr S would have received if he had received 5% return  for 
the investment   which appears to be the broad rate of return  from around that period based on 
Moneyfacts  on the amount he invested and pay this to him, with interest.
If the business  considers that it should  deduct income  tax from the interest calculated in B above, it 
must send a tax deduction  certificate  with the payment.  Mr S may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM 
Revenue and Customs, if his circumstances  permit him to do so.
I note the business says it would be offering compensation in lieu of this return, and not interest 
subject to tax, no certificate for the deduction of tax would therefore  be applicable. If the business  
believes this to be correct approach, it wont need to issue a tax deduction  certificate.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional decision, Im minded to uphold  this complaint.   
Provisionally I require National Westminster Bank  Plc to pay Mr S redress,  of D + E, where:
A = the original investment of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital  Bond (the bond);
B = interest at the rate available for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at the time, or 
similar. 
C = the actual value of the bond at the date it matured;    
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum  simple  from the date the bond matured to the 
date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN75214225If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that it should  deduct income tax from the interest 
calculated in B above,  it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  Mr S may reclaim 
any tax overpaid  from HM Revenue and Customs, if his circumstances permit him to do so, unless the 
tax deduction certificate wouldnt be applicable.  
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7521422