K822xcomplaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the quality of repairs done  after he made  a claim for a damaged 
phone under his mobile phone insurance with Great Lakes Insurance  SE.
background 
Around a week  after purchasing the phone insured with Great  Lakes, He was apparently told 
he could take the phone  to the manufacturers  store or send it off for repair  by one of Great  
Lakess contractors. 
Mr M sent his phone off for repair, however after the repair was done  he had to send it back 
again as it was still faulty (I understand the touch  screen was not working correctly). After 
Great Lakes repaired it a second time,  it was returned to Mr M but he says he continued to 
have problems with it and so went to the manufacturer to have it repaired. Mr M was 
apparently told by the manufacturer  that as Great Lakes had used generic parts during its 
repair of the phone, it had invalidated his warranty, meaning he would  have to pay for the 
repair.
Mr M contacted Great Lakes again, however it told him that as the repair was carried out
over three months before,  it was outside  the repair warranty period and it would not repair  
the phone  again. Mr M had his phone repaired at a cost to him of £169 on 28 November 
2018. 
Mr M is unhappy  with this. He says he was not told that generic parts  would be used or that 
using these parts would invalidate his warranty with the manufacturer. 
Great Lakes said Mr M was given  the choice as to where his phone  was repaired. It also 
said that as he returned to it three  months after the repair, the repair  was outside of its  
warranty. And Mr M no longer  had a policy by the time he reported the fault, it no longer had 
an obligation  to repair the phone. Great Lakes has also said that the policy does  not specify  
that it will use genuine brand parts. Great Lakes offered Mr M £25 compensation but says it 
is not obliged  to do anything further.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought Great Lakes had not allowed Mr M to make a properly  informed 
choice about how the first repair  was carried out; and if he had known that generic parts 
would be used, which might affect his warranty,  he might have  chosen  to take the phone to 
the manufacturer at that stage. 
Also the investigator  said it appeared that the repair  was not done properly and so 
regardless of the repair warranty period,  Great Lakes should reimburse the repair costs plus 
interest and pay Mr M £75 compensation, in addition  to the £25 already paid.
Great Lakes has not responded  to the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been 
passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72364102There is no evidence available to me that Great Lakes  made  sufficiently clear  to Mr M when 
he first made his claim  in April 2018 that if he sent the phone for repair by one of its 
contractors it would invalidate his manufacturers warranty. As Mr M had only had the phone 
for a very short time when  he made this claim, I consider it likely that he would have  opted  to 
take the phone to the manufacturers store  to have it repaired, if he had known this. 
In addition, the invoice Mr M has provided  says that he took the phone in for a screen repair. 
The initial claim was for a broken screen and the phone was returned in May 2018 because  
there were problems with the screen. It seems to me therefore that the insurance  obligation  
was not fulfilled. Great Lakes says it guarantees repairs for three months but I dont  think  this 
overrides the insurance obligation, which is to pay for the cost of a proper repair  of the 
phone, i.e. to restore it to its pre-claim condition as far as possible. It doesnt matter  that     
Mr M is apparently no longer insured with Great Lakes,  as this is about  its duty to properly 
repair the phone while he was covered by this policy.  
I therefore agree with the investigator  that Great Lakes should reimburse the amount Mr M 
paid for the repair, together with interest. I also agree  that some additional compensation is 
warranted to reflect the trouble and inconvenience caused by the handling  of the claim,  
including having  to return the phone  to Great Lakes and then arrange  his own repair,  and 
losing the remaining manufacturers warranty on his phone. I agree that £100 in total is 
reasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the following: 
Reimburse Mr M for the amount he paid to have his phone  repaired, (i.e. £169) 
together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date he paid the costs to the 
date of reimbursement; and 
Pay Mr M the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling  of his claim. (This is to include the £25 it offered before the complaint 
came to us. So if it has already paid this amount it only needs to pay the additional 
£75.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7236410