K820x#14complaint
Mr H says National Westminster Bank plc mistreated him as a disabled  customer;  lost his 
money and reversed an incorrect credit to his account without telling him; and then went  
ahead and paid him £100 in compensation after hed rejected  that offer. 
Mr H wants the bank  to admit discrimination under the Equalities  Act 2010 and to make  a 
donation to a charity  of his choice.
background
When Mr H visited  a branch to pay in some  coins, amongst other items, there was no coin 
counter available. His disability prevents him from counting and bagging coins.  The bank 
says it gave him money bags, the use of a room and offered to help him once it had served  
the queue. Another  customer offered to help, but Mr H says he felt uncomfortable so he 
completed his other banking and left. Mr H paid in a total of £285  but the bank mistakenly 
credited an additional £200  to his account.  It removed  this from his account  three  days  later.   
The bank says by offering  to assist Mr H with the coins it made reasonable adjustments as 
the Equalities Act 2010 requires it to. It was entitled  to reverse  the £200 credited in error. It 
paid the £100 compensation to apologise for any inconvenience and upset it had caused 
him, saying  the staff could maybe have  been more helpful.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said,  in summary:
we cant decide  if a business has discriminated against a customer  under the 
Equalities Act 2010 - that is something  for the courts;
whilst  understanding  it was frustrating there was no coin counting machine, by 
offering to help count  and bag the coins once the queue was served,  it seemed 
NatWest had made reasonable adjustments; 
there was no evidence that any of Mr Hs money had been lost by the bank;  and
as the £200 credit  was in error the bank did nothing unfair when it took the money 
back three days later. 
Overall, she felt the apology and £100  compensation  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed saying  he was very unhappy with this response and we had sided with the 
bank. So the complaint  was passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to reassure Mr H we dont  take 
either partys side. We are an independent public body and we look to resolve disputes 
informally, in a way thats fair and reasonable. 
Its not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to judge whether NatWest has breached  the 
Equality Act 2010. This is an issue for the courts. But I must consider the relevant law when 
deciding whether I think NatWest has treated Mr H fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN79328402Under the Equality Act 2010, businesses must take reasonable steps to remove barriers 
people face as a result of their disability so that, as far as possible, people  with disabilities 
receive the same service as people who dont have  a disability.  This is known as the duty to 
make reasonable adjustments.
Whilst I cant know exactly how Mr H was treated in the branch, based  on the available  
evidence, I think that by offering to assist Mr H to count and bag his coins  in private  NatWest  
made reasonable adjustments. Unfortunately, however, the lack of staff and number of other  
customers in the branch  at the time meant Mr H would have had to wait some time for this to 
happen. And I dont  think this was right, and I understand that Mr H felt uncomfortable.  
However, I think the £100 compensation already  paid reasonably reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him.
 
NatWests website shows which branches  have coin counters. I understand Mr H had 
checked in advance of his visit, but it seems he was unable to view the information  properly. 
This is unfortunate,  but it seems the website was accurate and I havent found  anything to 
suggest there was a bank failing. 
With regards to the mistaken  £200 credit, and subsequent debit,  I find no error  in the banks 
actions. And I havent found enough evidence to support Mr Hs claim that the bank lost his 
money. The bank  adviser  who served Mr H has provided a detailed testimony. From this I 
note she called Mr H the next day to follow up and discuss  the incorrect  payment into his 
account. She recalls  he was at that time happy  with the explanation, albeit dissatisfied with 
bank staffing levels. 
Overall, I can find no grounds to tell the bank to increase the compensation by way of a 
charitable donation, or to instruct it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7932840