K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) sold by Lloyds 
Bank PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), in 2003. The mortgage was a joint 
one issued in the names  of Mr and Mrs C. But only Mrs C was covered by the PPI. They  say 
this cover was mis-sold  because they felt pressured in to buying it and they didnt need it.
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Weve assumed Mr and Mrs 
C disagree, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I can see Mr and Mrs C filled out an application  form for their mortgage and both signed  it. 
One of the sections on the form was about  PPI and it allowed mortgage applicants  to either 
tick a box to have  PPI or tick another box about not having it, depending on what  they 
wanted to do. So although Im sure Mr and Mrs C now genuinely believe they were mis-sold  
the cover, Im afraid the evidence points quite  strongly the other way because  they ticked the 
first box.
In my view, they would have been  able to see the PPI option boxes gave them an obvious  
choice and they didnt need  to buy it if they didnt  want  to. I see that in addition to them 
asking for the PPI there  was another stage in the process, and in my view,  this clears  up any 
ambiguity. In order to get the PPI set up Mr and Mrs C had to fill out an additional  application 
form specifically about PPI. On this they opted for PPI cover only for Mrs C and not Mr C.
All this shows me that its far more likely that Mr and Mrs C engaged in the discussions 
about having PPI and I think  its clear  they opted  for the type of protection  that suited their 
particular situation.  I think the evidence is therefore very strong that they could have seen 
there was a choice  and that they opted for this policy, only for Mrs C, because  they wanted  
to have it. They went on to fill out a third form, authorising the monthly direct debit transfer 
from their bank account to pay for the policy.
I therefore think C&G properly obtained  Mr and Mrs Cs consent.
Its not disputed  that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale.  This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable.  I think it was.
I think this because Mrs C was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. She was employed and I think any 
sickness protection she would have had would have been relatively good. However, their 
mortgage was secured  against their home and so the consequences of not being  able to 
Ref: DRN74732612make the repayments  could have been  serious. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
would have helped  pay the mortgage  for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition 
to the other means they already had in place.
I therefore dont  think recommending  PPI was unreasonable in this case  and Mrs C appears 
to have been the main earner.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would  have  been said at the meeting(s) and its possible C&G could have done 
a better  job in explaining  things. But from what Ive seen, I think  the disclosure of information  
looks comprehensive. It would also have been easy to see the cost of the monthly PPI 
premiums. So I think  Mr and Mrs C had enough information on which to make an informed 
choice about what they wanted  to do.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but I dont think  the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7473261