K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that she wasnt able to transfer  money out of her The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc account because she didnt  have a card reader. She also complains about  the 
customer service  she received.
background
Miss H opened her account with the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in June 2018. The following 
month she tried to transfer  money  out of her RBS account. But because she didnt have a 
card reader she wasnt able to do this online.  
On telephoning RBS Miss H was told shed only be able to transfer her money without a card 
reader by using  an activation code. It said it would  send this code to her and that this would 
enable her to transfer her money over the telephone. 
The following  day Miss H received her activation  code  and telephoned  RBS to transfer her 
money out of her account. But, while she was able to successfully  make  the transfer,  she 
said she was questioned about why she wanted to do so. 
Miss H wasnt  happy about what had happened  and complained to RBS that she hadnt 
been able to transfer her money  when  shed wanted  to. She said she was never informed  
shed need a card reader  to transfer money  prior to her trying  to do this and she wanted  RBS 
to compensate her for her inconvenience. RBS didnt uphold  her complaint. But it offered 
Miss H £30 due to some service failings it had identified. These related to the banks failure  
to correctly and accurately record the details of her complaint and for the poor customer  
service she received over the telephone. 
Miss H didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. She believed  that the 
compensation offered wasnt enough  because of the inconvenience shed been caused  
when she couldnt  access her money. Our adjudicator looked into this complaint and, while 
they empathised  with Miss H, didnt think that RBS had done anything  wrong.  They felt the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable given the circumstances and that they 
couldnt fairly ask it to do anything more here. But Miss H disagreed  and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I sympathise with Miss Hs 
situation, having considered everything  that she and RBS have said,  Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I realise  Miss H will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  
happened.
I recognise that Miss H wanted to move  her money on the day she attempted  to make the 
online transfer. And I can appreciate that she hadnt realised before then that she needed a 
card reader in order  to do so. Miss H told our adjudicator that the crux of her complaint is 
that she wasnt informed  shed need a card reader to transfer money  out of her account. So 
Ive thought about what RBS did to alert her to the need to have this and whether this was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.   
Ref: DRN71035382RBS has said that its online banking service is optional for customers.  So when a new 
customer opens an account they must register for this service because,  rather  than it being 
provided immediately  when the account is opened, as not all customers want this. RBS also 
says that customers are offered two levels of services. To use the service Miss H wanted, 
she needed a card reader. A customer is required to order it themselves  once  theyve 
decided they need or want a reader. Having looked  carefully at what  RBS has done here Im 
satisfied it followed its own policy fairly. Like our adjudicator, I too understand that it may be 
more convenient  for card readers to be automatically sent to customers  by RBS. But this 
isnt the process  that it adopts with its bank accounts. Were not the regulator of banks.  So, 
we cant tell RBS to change its policy here.
Miss H also says she hasnt seen any written reference to needing a card reader to be able 
to transfer money  online. As well as believing  the card reader shouldve  been issued 
automatically, Miss H feels she shouldve been told it was needed  to transfer money  out of 
her account.  RBS says it doesnt prompt a customer about this during its account enrolment 
procedure but does show a customer a message on its website at the bottom of the screen 
once theyve logged  onto their online banking. It says it also periodically shows messages  to 
customers who havent ordered a card reader  advising them to order one. 
RBS also says it gives customers  full information about the card reader on the information  
pages for online banking under the section titled do more with online banking. Ive seen the 
information provided by RBS on its website. It informs customers how to access  their money 
and includes  information stating that the card reader is required to transfer money out of the 
account for the first time. The information also includes  details  on how to order the card 
reader and the order  a card reader  option  is displayed prominently. Miss H has questioned 
whether shes expected  to read RBS  website in its entirety to discern that a card reader is 
required. But accounts like the one Miss H has have a number of features and optional 
services that can be used and its for RBS to decide how it tells customers about  these 
features. Here,  I think  RBS has made the relevant  information available  to Miss H about 
what she wanted to do in a clear  manner. So I dont consider Miss Hs inability to transfer  her 
money to be caused  by a lack of information  from RBS.
Miss H has also questioned whether the information online was available  at the time she 
opened her account but Ive no reason to believe this information has been created by RBS 
since Miss H raised a complaint. And taking the above into account, Miss H could have  
accessed the information RBS made  available about how to transfer money,  or she couldve 
asked RBS if she wasnt sure.
It must have been frustrating for Miss H not to be able to transfer her money when she 
wanted to. So Ive thought  about  the inconvenience  she was caused  when she couldnt 
transfer her money  and whether  RBS helped resolve matters  promptly. 
Our adjudicator felt that RBS provided  an adequate solution when Miss H couldnt access  
her money when she needed to. But Miss H disagreed. From  what  Ive seen I think RBS 
acted fairly  and proactively in offering her an alternative solution of transferring her money.  I 
say this because  it promptly  offered to send her an activation code, which  she received the 
next day. And Im pleased to see she was able to use it to successfully transfer her money 
from her account. So RBS resolved this issue quickly and Miss H was able to move  her 
money with only a slight delay. So for the above reasons it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask RBS to compensate Miss H because she couldnt transfer  her money  when she wanted 
to.
Ref: DRN71035383When Miss H brought her complaint to us she said she was unhappy with the customer 
service she received from RBS when  she phoned  in order  to request its assistance in 
making the transfer. She said telephone advisers  spoke over her, were uncooperative and 
didnt log her complaint  properly. RBS has accepted that its customer service  wasnt as it 
shouldve been.  So Ive considered whether  the remedy offered is fair and reasonable. 
When deciding what potential compensation to award I must take two things into account: 
financial loss as a result of any business  error  and non-financial loss, including  
inconvenience and upset. I understand that Miss H hasnt lost out financially and when  
considering awards  for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula  that we use to calculate 
awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions have had 
on the consumer  and to decide,  within guidelines set by our service, how much would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. Having  done so, Im satisfied RBS provided  information 
about how Miss H could make a transfer and followed its processes here. Miss H was then 
able to make  her transfer one day after requesting the activation code. I think  RBS acted 
promptly in sending this code to her.
While there  were some service issues during her telephone call with it she was able to 
successfully transfer  her money  quickly. RBS offered Miss H £30 in compensation to settle 
this complaint. Having  taken all of these factors into account I agree with the adjudicator that 
this is fair and reasonable.  Miss  H rejected  this offer but if shed now like to accept it, she 
should contact  RBS directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103538