K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd has treated her unfairly because  it didnt  freeze interest 
and charges when  she told it that she was having financial difficulties and was struggling to 
meet the monthly payments on her Marbles credit card
background
Miss M called NewDay to tell it that she wasnt able to work and was having  difficulties  in 
making her Marbles credit  card repayments.  She offered to pay £20 per week but is still 
being charged interest and fees, which is making her situation  worse. She would like 
NewDay to agree a repayment plan, refund the interest and fees it has charged since  she 
told it she was in difficulties and freeze  interest.
The investigator thought Miss Ms complaint should  be upheld. She said that NewDay  should 
have sent Miss M an income and expenditure form far sooner than it did to assess ways in 
which it could help.  She said that NewDay  should refund interest and charges on Miss Ms 
account from when  she first told it she was experiencing difficulties.
NewDay didnt agree. In summary, it said it helped by agreeing to an arrangement  when 
Miss M first told it about her difficulties but, because Miss M hadnt provided  any medical 
evidence, it couldnt  suspend interest and charges. It offered to refund £48 in charges  and 
pay £60 for not responding  to her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases of financial difficulty, lenders are required to treat their customers  positively and 
sympathetically, but this only arises  when a business becomes aware of the situation. And it 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that a bank must refund charges or freeze interest. It is entitled to 
make enquiries to check on the situation before making a decision.
I see Miss M was having some financial difficulties prior to April 2018 because her account 
was over its limit and she had some  arrears. But Im satisfied that she told NewDay,  in April 
2018, that she was having  problems and she could only afford to make repayments  of £20 
per week.
NewDay agreed to her request to pay £20 per week for a period of four months.  But because 
it was clear that Miss M was already having problems and she was now telling it about 
further difficulties,  I think  NewDay should have asked Miss M to complete an income and 
expenditure form, so that it could assess the best way to help her. 
When the four month plan ended NewDay did ask Miss M to tell it about her income and 
monthly outgoings and she completed and returned  the form with this information in early  
September 2018. This showed that, after normal living  costs  and meeting reduced payments 
to all her creditors,  Miss Ms normal monthly outgoings were more  than her income. 
During this time NewDay continued to charge interest and fees even though it had agreed to 
accept £20 per week. I accept that it did help her by agreeing to the reduced payments. I find 
it was also entitled  to check on Miss Ms financial position but it didnt do this. And by 
Ref: DRN75967102continuing to charge  interest and fees it made  Miss Ms situation worse because  her 
repayments were just about covering  the interest and not decreasing the debt. 
NewDay stopped  charging interest in August for three months. It isnt clear  from its records  
why it did this. It didnt  receive Miss Ms income and expenditure schedule until early 
September. As Ive explained above, this showed  that Miss M didnt have enough money  to 
make the repayments  but still NewDay didnt offer any help.  Instead  it wrote to her in early 
October to ask for medical  evidence  and started  to charge interest  again  in November. 
Having carefully reviewed all that has happened I would have expected NewDay to do more 
sooner than it did to help Miss M. By not doing  so, I dont consider it has treated her fairly, 
positively and sympathetically. It has already agreed to refund the fees applied since  May 
2018 totalling £48. I consider it should also refund the interest it charged in May through  to 
December 2018  as well. 
NewDay has accepted  that it provided  poor customer service by the delays it caused in 
replying to Miss Ms emails. It has apologised and offered to pay £60 for this, which  Im 
satisfied is fair.
I understand that NewDay has now agreed  a repayment plan and to freeze interest and 
charges for 12 months from January 2019. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require NewDay Ltd to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges debited to Miss Ms account  since  1 May 2018
and
2.Pay Miss M £60 for its poor service
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7596710