K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the interest and charges applied  to a loan that he took out with Blemain 
Finance Limited.  Hes also unhappy with the customer service hes received. And he doesnt 
think the business has acted sympathetically to his health and financial situation.
background
In September  2007, Mr J took out a secured loan with Blemain. It was for £10,000 plus 
£1,626 payment protection insurance  (PPI). It was due to be paid over a period of ten years  
with monthly payments  of £174 and an interest rate of 11.10%.  From the start the account 
fell into arrears and mostly  remained that way throughout the agreement. Mr J says he was 
initially told he could claim under his PPI but when he did lose his job, the claim was 
declined. This meant he has been  unable to rely on the insurance to repay the debt.
With the account in arrears a substantial level of charges  along  with associated  interest has 
accumulated on the account. These  charges have included late payment fees, charges  for 
phone calls, letters and other costs related to repossession actions such  as professional 
fees and court charges.  Repossession actions have been suspended due to Mr J agreeing 
payment plans with the business.
Mr J was obliged under the terms of the agreement  to obtain building insurance but has 
been unable  to provide  evidence that he has done  so to Blemain. So the business  has 
added its own contingency  insurance charging Mr Js account annually.
Throughout the agreement Mr J has notified  Blemain that he has suffered a number of 
personal, financial and health difficulties. In response, Blemain provided Mr J with several 
mental health and debt evidence forms to complete.
Between November  2017 and February 2018,  Mr J made several complaints  to the business 
by phone and in writing. Amongst other things, he didnt think the business  had acted 
sympathetically to his personal situation.
 
Blemain did not uphold the majority of Mr Js complaint points  noting  the following:
There had been some errors on the account   but where errors had been made 
these charges had been refunded. There had also been several goodwill payments in 
respect of certain costs such as phone and letter charges.
All other  charges have  been applied correctly and no outstanding refunds  are due.
Mr J had failed to provide evidence of building insurance to date. Therefore, building  
insurance had been  added and charged to Mr J on an annual basis.
Blemain sent Mr J several mental  health and debt forms over the years.  It had 
received one completed form on 1 February 2018.
Mr J was unhappy that the business  had called the police following a call with an 
adviser. The business considered that as there  were concerns for Mr Js welfare the 
actions of its adviser were  justified.
Blemain agreed  it hadnt  asked Mr J for a password on the account when it said it would. But 
it said it hadnt breached any data protection  as it had asked Mr J relevant security 
questions. However,  it apologised  for not meeting  Mr Js expectation by not asking for the 
relevant password. It also apologised  for a delay in sending Mr J some  requested  
information a few days outside its normal timescales.
Ref: DRN75757412One of our investigators  looked at Mr Js complaint. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She considered the charges added to Mr Js account since  2007 had been fairly 
applied due to the arrears.  She noted  as Mr J hadnt provided evidence  of his own building  
insurance, the business had acted fairly in taking out its own insurance.
Our investigator concluded that, overall,  Blemain had acted fairly towards Mr J in the way it 
had dealt with his account and the personal  issues he had raised  during numerous  phone 
calls and letters. And it had sent Mr J mental health  forms when he requested  but these had 
not been completed properly until February  2018.  So our investigator  didnt think that 
Blemain needed  to do anything further.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view. So the matter has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, despite  my 
sympathy for Mr Js situation, Im not going  to uphold the complaint. Before I explain my 
reasoning, I understand that Mr J has another complaint with this service in respect of the 
PPI claim referred to above.  This is the subject matter of a separate  complaint and will not 
be dealt with here. Further, I know Mr J has raised  a number of points during his contact with 
this service and the business. Although I may not mention every  point he has raised, Ive 
considered everything  Mr J has said but limited my findings to the areas  which impact on the 
outcome of the case.
charges
I can see that Mr Js main  complaint  is about how much he has been charged and how much 
he is being asked  to repay. The agreement  started  in 2007 and the loan amount with PPI 
totalled just under £12,000. I note the agreement specifies that if everything had been paid 
on time, Mr J was expected to repay  around  £9,362 (total cost of credit) in addition  to the 
principal loan amount.  By February  2018, Mr J was told he owed around £32,000. And by 
this point, his payments  totalled around £20,500.
From the outset the account has been in arrears rising to over £4,377 by March 2014.  Albeit  
the arrears did decrease after this point, the account  remained in arrears up until February 
2018 when Mr J brought this complaint to our service. This meant the cost of credit had 
increased substantially  and this is Mr Js main complaint.
Much of the costs and charges added  to Mr Js account have related to repossession  
actions. Given the secured  nature  of the loan this was always a risk for Mr J if he did not 
keep his account up to date. Although Blemain had the option  to take repossession  action, I 
can see it has responded sympathetically  to Mr Js proposals to repay the debt. And this has 
meant it has suspended  repossession no less than eight  times.
 
So although  Mr Js property has not been  repossessed, due to payments not being made, or 
not being made on time, he has incurred costs  and charges. Most of which relate  to the 
repossession actions as well as increased  interest  charges.  I consider given the way Mr J 
has managed his account,  Blemain has applied these charges  fairly in line with the tariff of 
arrears charges and agreement. Further, Blemain has kept Mr J informed of these  costs  
Ref: DRN75757413sending annual statements and other documents illustrating the charges that have been, or 
will be, added if the account remained in arrears.
I can see the vast majority  of costs relate to legal proceedings (default notices, legal fees, 
court preparation fees, issue for warrant fees, professional costs and court  costs).  Mr J was 
also charged for matters  specific to his personal situation such as animal handler charges 
needed to deal with an animal  at his property. These charges have been explained to Mr J 
by the business and I can see each  charge has only been  made  at a point where 
repossession action was the last resort and the costs had already been  incurred.
In total the costs and charges as at February  2018 totalled £14,914. All of these charges 
added a significant amount to Mr Js overall balance  along  with interest which  was costing 
him more  than £200 per month by 2018.  So given the total costs  and charges of £14,914, 
interest charges  of over £200  per month  as well as the principal loan amount of £10,000  
(excluding PPI), I think this provides a reasonable explanation as to why by February 2018, 
Mr J still owed over £32,000 despite making  payments in the region of £20,500. So whilst I 
appreciate Mr J says he cant understand how the costs have accumulated to such  an 
extent, I think  he has been  well informed  throughout the agreement  as to the reasons for the 
charges and how to avoid  them.  I will now deal with some specific costs highlighted by Mr J.
I know Mr J estimates  the cost for letters and phone calls has been around £150 per month.  
I note these costs stopped being added to Mr Js account from February  2010.  I see up until 
that point he was charged around £1,152. But he was also refunded  £882 in terms of these 
costs in August  2014. So given the business  has not charged Mr J for these costs for some  
time and refunded him most of them, I think its acted fairly  here.
I note on a number  of occasions  charges have  been  incorrectly  added to Mr Js account.  But 
I also see these have  been rectified as part of charge reviews carried  out by the business. In 
particular, the business carried out a review in 2013.  Mr J was refunded  some charges  which  
he received in August 2014.  Further, in July 2016, charges totalling £641 plus associated 
interest of £994 were  credited  back  to his account. Blemain also offered £242 plus 
associated interest in October 2016  as a gesture of goodwill for other charges but Mr J did 
not respond to this latter offer. So although I acknowledge Blemain has made mistakes,  Im 
satisfied where this has been the case, it has put Mr J back  in a position  he shouldve  been 
by refunding the charges  along with the associated interest.
Finally, as part of the agreement  it is necessary to have building insurance. And if evidence  
cant be provided of this the business will arrange contingency cover.  A letter  dated 
23 October 2016 and several previous letters similar in nature explained to Mr J the reason  
for this cost being  added  to his account.  Simply, he has been asked to provide  evidence of 
having building insurance which he has so far failed to do. I note Mr J benefitted  from an 
error resulting in the cover being removed from his account in the early stages of the 
agreement. But other than this, he has been  charged annually for this cost as hes failed to 
provide evidence of his own cover. Therefore, I think its reasonable for the business to 
charge Mr J for the contingency  cover  in line with the terms of the agreement.
response to health  issues
Mr J has said the main  reason for the problems he has had with his account  has been his 
mental health issues. And that he doesnt  think the business has acted sympathetically 
towards him in this respect. I see that on at least seven occasions since  2012, the business 
has sent Mr J and his representative mental  health and debt evidence forms to complete.
Ref: DRN75757414These forms have been sent to him to try to gain an understanding  of how his mental health 
and financial  problems  are affecting  the management of his account. But until February 
2018, Blemain  hadnt received a full response  from Mr J.
Despite not receiving fully completed forms from Mr J, looking at the way that Blemain has 
managed the account overall,  I do think it has taken  his health and financial difficulties into 
account. This is evident from the number of times  the business has been  willing  to suspend 
repossession action and accept payment arrangements suggested by Mr J. On each 
occasion, the business has suspended repossession  action  which it was legally entitled  to 
take given the extent  of the arrears.  On at least eight occasions its been willing to accept 
Mr Js offer of a payment plan. I know Mr J is again  facing repossession  action, but in view of 
the above, Im satisfied  Blemain has worked with him to try and come  to mutually acceptable 
payment arrangements  on many occasions which Mr J has, to date, broken.
I appreciate Mr J has serious health  issues and personal problems. Ive listened to several 
phone calls with Blemain  advisers as well as looking at the way the account has been  
managed overall.  For the reasons Ive already noted, I think  the business has been 
sympathetic in its response  to Mr Js needs. I know that Mr J is unhappy about some of the 
responses to matters he raised during  phone  calls with Blemain advisers. I can hear that on 
at least one occasion the business contacted the police as they had concerns for Mr Js 
welfare. Listening  to the call, and the genuine concern the business had for Mr Js welfare,  I 
think its adviser acted in a proportionate and appropriate way.
customer service
I know Mr J has said that he has complained to Blemain on several occasions but nothing 
has been done. However, I can see that Blemain has sent several  final response letters to 
Mr J over the years and that it has responded to all his concerns as noted  above.
 
Mr J has complained about the password  not being used on his account. I can see Blemain 
has provided an explanation about  this. And did take Mr J through security questions. Whilst 
I appreciate its adviser failed to ask Mr J for the password, Im satisfied enough was done  to 
ensure Mr Js personal information was protected. If Mr J still thinks  the business has 
breached his data in any way, he may wish to complain to the Information  Commissioners  
Office who deals with these types of complaints.
So in summary,  I think Blemain has acted fairly in the way it has managed Mr Js account.  I 
also consider it has acted in a proportionate and reasonable way when theyve had concerns 
for Mr Js welfare. And whilst I know this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr J given the 
difficult circumstances he faces,  Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7575741