K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr A. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2002 alongside a store credit account. Mr A 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Mr A filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you make 
by signing a box. Mr A has said he was told just to sign where the shop assistant had 
marked the form with Xs, and that insurance  was not discussed, explained or offered as a 
separate product. However, I can see that the part of the form where Mr A signed does say 
fairly prominently Protecting your Account yes I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover Please debit my Account with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. So I think it should have been reasonably  clear that Mr A was signing for an 
insurance product,  and that he had a choice about it. 
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr As 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr A to decide  whether  it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mr A clear  and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the information  on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was given to Mr A. So 
Ive thought about whether better information  is likely  to have made  a difference.  But in 
Mr As circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely  to have made a difference to his decision. I say this because it seems  
the PPI could have paid out for longer  than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it would 
have been in addition to any employer  sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear  he had 
many reliable alternative means to pay his living expenses and credit  account for long, if he 
lost his income; and even  if he did have those resources, he could have kept those in 
reserve for longer.  So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
Ref: DRN77083152Mr A says that a complaint he made about a mis-sale with credit card provided  by a different 
business, was upheld by the ombudsman service. He says that PPI policy  was sold around 
the same  time as this, and he says his circumstances had not changed.  He does not 
understand why the adjudicator made  a different decision with this complaint. 
I dont know the circumstances of that sale, or why that complaint was upheld.  However I do 
know that different  PPI providers offered different levels of benefit, and charged different 
levels of premium. For example the benefit  offered in this FICL PPI was 15% per month of 
the outstanding balance,  which is a higher  level of benefit than many  other  PPI policies 
offered. The relationship, between the cost of premiums and the potential overall benefits 
payable, can affect the assessment of whether a policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7708315