K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004 alongside  a credit card. Ms S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. BoS no longer 
have a copy of Ms S actual completed application form. However, they have 
provided a sample application form from the time of the sale. I think this represents  
the type of form Ms S would have been asked to complete. I note that this form 
presents PPI as optional and it appears  that if PPI hadnt  been selected then it 
wouldnt have been applied to the account.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said - including what  she has said about her other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my decision.  The policy would 
have paid out in addition  to Ms S employee sick pay and would also have paid out for up to 
12 months per claim if she lost her job.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything   
Ms S paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms S back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Ms S now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done  
so already.
Ref: DRN75805722my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580572