K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained Lloyds Bank plc should have done more  to prevent a company  
claiming £1,080  from his debit card.
background
In 2017 Mr B signed up to a free trial online with a file hosting service (who  Ill call D). He 
was then in hospital so didnt receive emails  advising him his trial period was coming to an 
end. D charged him £1,080. He complained to his bank.  Hed not signed up to pay that level 
of charge and felt hed been misled.  Lloyds temporarily refunded  Mr B. The chargeback  
ended up being  successful.
Mr B was unhappy Lloyds  hadnt told him the money  was definitely his. He also felt they 
shouldnt have allowed  this amount  of money to leave his account  without his authorisation. 
Lloyds didnt think theyd  done anything wrong.  Mr B brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence including Mr Bs trail of emails  from D. He told Mr B 
that Lloyds had done what  wed expect  in those circumstances. Theyd used  the relevant 
card scheme rules to action a chargeback and Mr B got his money back. He also explained 
we couldnt do anything about D who Mr B felt had taken the money fraudulently.
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman  to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing that is particularly relevant to Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B told us he couldnt recall giving  D his card details. In my experience companies only 
allow customers to sign up to free trials by providing card details. These allow them  to take 
payments if someone  uses the service after the trial period  expires. I think  in all likelihood  
this is what happened  here. Theres certainly no other way I can see D being able to use 
Mr Bs card details without him giving them in the first place. I believe Mr B authorised the 
transaction.
However I accept Mr Bs point that he had no idea he was going to pay anything as high as 
£1,080. At the most he was expecting a payment of about £36 a month. So he raised a 
complaint with his bank.
In those circumstances we expect banks to use the chargeback  service  provided by the card 
schemes. These give parameters for what type of cases  they can consider and in what  
circumstances a bank  can raise a dispute  on behalf  of their customers. As soon as Mr B 
notified Lloyds  of the problem hed had, they acted immediately. I can see from Mr Bs 
statements he received  a refund the day after the original  transaction.
Ref: DRN72264622Mr B complained Lloyds  originally told him the refund was temporary. This is true. In some 
cases businesses, like D, can provide evidence to show they had consent for the amount 
originally debited. In those  cases the bank will re-debit  the customer. Id expect when this 
happens any bank  will confirm whats happened to their customer. Lloyds didnt do this as 
their chargeback was successful. I appreciate  why Mr B felt he should be told the money 
was his. But I believe his original confirmation from Lloyds told him that if they heard nothing 
further after 45 days the money would remain his. I dont think they did anything  wrong  here.
Mr B also believes Lloyds  should never have allowed the initial  payment  to be taken by D. I 
dont agree. The evidence shows Mr B gave D his card details. Lloyds would never  have 
known about the terms of the contract  so it was up to Mr B to complain about  the charge 
levied on him. He did this and as decided above Lloyds did what  Id expect them to do.
Mr B was only without funds for 24 hours  so I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay 
him any compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7226462