K820x#14Complaint
Miss L complains that Lex Autolease Ltd took too long to notify her of a damage charge after 
she ended  her hire agreement.
 
Background
Miss L entered  into a hire agreement  with Lex Autolease in February 2016 to lease a 
vehicle. The payments were made through a deduction to her salary. On 28 February 2019, 
at the end of the lease, the vehicle was collected.  Miss L says she then received an email 
from Lex Autolease on 4 March saying she would  receive a credit for the mileage which  was 
applied to her March salary. Miss L says she thought at this point the relationship  with Lex 
Autolease was finished and she starting  to apply for a mortgage. She says she wanted to 
wait until the vehicle payments were complete before starting her mortgage application.
On 2 April 2019,  Miss L received an email saying  she would be charged in her April salary  
for damage  to the vehicle. She says she had to contact to Lex Autolease to find out what the 
charge was for. She then accepted there was a dent. Miss L was told the vehicle had been 
inspected on 5 March  and that she was only told about the damage because  Lex Autolease 
had to inform  her employer in order  for the charge  to be applied to her salary. 
Miss L says that having the charge applied to her April salary affected her mortgage 
application and that Lex Autolease should have  done more to inform her of the return 
process. She also says that Lex Autolease didnt provide the service it should have when 
responding to her concerns and complaint.
Lex Autolease explained  that Miss L entered into a 36 month  salary  sacrifice lease in 2016.  
It says that following the collection of the vehicle an inspection took place  on 5 March  2019 
which identified the damage. It says Miss L didnt receive notification  of the damage charges 
until the 2 April 2019 because, under  the salary sacrifice scheme, it is required to send 
notification of any payroll amendments,  such as damage or additional mileage charges, to 
Miss Ls employer by the second working day of the month.  It says that because the 
inspection took place after the March  cut-off date it notified Miss L in April. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He noted that Miss L wasnt  disputing  the 
damage itself but the timing of the notification. He said that Lex Autolease had explained the 
reason for the delay was due to the system  it had in place  with Miss Ls employer. He said 
Lex Autolease had adhered to its policies and so didnt think  it had done  anything wrong. 
Miss L didnt  agree  with our investigators view.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L entered  into a hire agreement  under which her payments would be made  through a 
salary sacrifice scheme. At the end of the lease  Miss Ls vehicle was returned. When a 
vehicle is returned  it is usual that an inspection  will take place to identify if there is any 
damage that falls outside of the wear and tear guidelines. In this case  damage was identified  
and when shown  the inspection report photographs  Miss L accepted this. Her complaint is 
that it took an extended period of time for her to be told about  the damage.
Ref: DRN74068712I can understand why Miss L was upset when  she received notification on the damage  
charge at the start of April 2019. She has explained that she wasnt expecting any further 
charges and had stared a mortgage application. However, for me to uphold  this complaint I 
have to be satisfied  that Lex Autolease did something wrong.
Having looked  through information provided I dont have anything to say the charge was 
unfairly applied.  Lex Autolease  has explained  the process that is set up for the salary  
sacrifice lease and that the cut off for damage  charges is the second of the month. As the 
inspection took place after this cut off in March notification was given on the required date in 
April. I appreciate this meant a delay but based  on what I have seen it appears that Lex 
Autolease followed  its usual process in this case.  As it provided the required notification as 
soon as it could,  that is for the April payroll,  I do not find I can say it did anything wrong.
I appreciate Miss Ls comment  about  the timing  of her mortgage  application  but in this case 
as I dont find that Lex Autolease did anything wrong I do not find that I can uphold  her 
complaint.
Miss L has also said she wasnt provided with the service she should have been in regard to 
her complaint. I have  seen the email correspondence  regrading Miss Ls request for 
information about the damage and also why the charges were not applied  until April. Lex 
Autolease responded to these requests. Therefore I do not find that I can say it did anything 
wrong.
Miss L has also said that Lex Autolease didnt provide information she needed in regard to 
her mortgage application  but our investigator  has explained this would need  to be raised 
separately to allow  Lex Autolease  a chance to respond.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7406871