K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says UK Credit  Limited didnt complete proper checks to make sure the loan it was
approving was affordable for her. And it charged her an unjustifiably high interest rate. 
background
Mrs B took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit in August 2013. It was for £3,000  over 30 
months. The monthly repayment was £159.39  and the total repayable  was £4,781.70.
Mrs B says the interest  she was charged  was unjustified  and the loan was unaffordable.  If 
UK Credit had checked properly before lending to her it would have realised  this. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said UK Credits checks  
were not proportionate,  and proportionate  checks would have shown  the loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Mrs B.
UK Credit disagreed  saying there was no evidence Mrs B was struggling with her existing 
credit commitments.  There were  historical  defaults  caused by significant  life changes on her 
credit file, but her finances were now stable. Mrs B wanted this loan to clear  the old debts to 
help improve her credit rating.  And our assessment didnt consider all of Mrs Bs income as 
some of her benefits were paid into a different bank account. There  was also no evidence to 
suggest Mrs Bs husband wouldnt continue to pay the household bills.  
Taking all of this into account,  it concluded Mrs B could comfortably afford  her loan 
repayments. In addition, the interest  rate was given verbally and in writing  before the loan 
completion, and Mrs B had said it that the interest  was lower than the level she was paying  
on the debt she was consolidating.
As no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints  is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the regulator when Mrs B borrowed from UK Credit. 
The relevant  rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance  
(ILG) said that for all loans UK Credit needed to check  that Mrs B could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  This meant Mrs B being  able to meet  her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without  or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive  about what checks UK Credit  needed  to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mrs B would be able to meet her repayments  
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks  needed  to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer  in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the
Ref: DRN70260952borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. In light of this, I think  that 
a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher  repayments from a particular  level of income);
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended  period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about  whether UK Credit  did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mrs B, and have  considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing 
Mrs Bs loan application to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay  the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown?
did UK Credit make  a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some  information from Mrs B before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of her income and verification of this, her contribution to household expenses  and her 
existing credit repayments. From this it understood her income to be £1243.90 made  up of 
three different benefits payments, and her ongoing expenses  to be £225.  It then checked  
Mrs Bs credit  file to understand her credit history. It says the majority of the defaults  or 
missed repayments were historical  and Mrs B explained they had been caused by significant 
life changes and her finances  had now stabilised. It asked about the purpose of the loan 
which was to consolidate her existing debt to try to repair her credit file. From these checks  it 
was satisfied the loan was affordable as it left Mrs B with £813.61 of monthly disposable  
income (after shed made the repayments  for this loan).
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mrs B was applying  to borrow a 
significant amount  of money from UK Credit. And whilst the monthly repayment seemed  to 
be an affordable amount  of her monthly income, she was entering into a long-term  
commitment and would need  to make monthly repayments for 30 months.  Overall,  I would 
expect that UK Credit  would have wanted to gather, and independently check, more detailed  
information about Mrs Bs financial  circumstances before  it agreed  to lend to her. 
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean  Mrs Bs complaint should  succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have  shown UK Credit  and consider if it ought to
have realised that Mrs B most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Like the adjudicator,  I have looked at Mrs Bs bank statements in the period prior to her 
taking the loan. This is one way UK Credit could have gathered the information I think it 
needed on Mrs Bs financial situation.   
These show that Mrs B herself was only in receipt  of one of the three  monthly benefits UK 
Credit classified as her income.  UK Credit  points to another account she held where  the 
Ref: DRN70260953other benefits payments were received, but from bank statements I have seen I note this 
was an account  held in her husbands  sole name.  It argues it was right to consider these 
payments as part of her income, but I cant see that this is reasonable when it also 
completed its checks on the basis that Mrs Bs husband paid all the household bills. Whilst it 
seems this was the case from what I have  seen, the account from which  he did this was 
where the other two benefit payments that UK Credit  has counted  as part of Mrs Bs income 
were received. To me this means its income  and expenditure  analysis was flawed. As it was 
assessing the affordability of a loan for Mrs B, that she would be solely liable for, I dont think 
it was fair to consider the income from the three  benefits without understanding the 
ownership of the account they were  credited  to, and indeed what proportion of that income 
went towards household bills. Its approach has overstated Mrs Bs income and understated 
the contribution  that income made to monthly  expenses. 
This means  I dont  think the adjudicators analysis of her disposable income is unreasonable.  
I think it is fair to only consider the income paid into Mrs Bs account.  And the loan 
repayment made up a very significant  percentage of that income. Based on her monthly 
income of £239  from her carers allowance  and after making  the loan repayment of £159.39,  
she would  only be left with £79.61  which I dont  think is enough to allow  for any unexpected 
but essential costs.  For UK Credit to argue  it was reasonable  to consider the other benefit 
income paid into the account in Mr Bs name, I think it would needed to have  understood 
how these benefit  payments  were used each month,  and what control Mrs B had over them.  
In essence it would have needed to be assessing  a joint application and to have carried out 
a different set of affordability checks. 
Having reviewed this information, I think had UK Credit completed  proportionate checks,  it 
would have realised  the loan wasnt really  affordable  on a monthly  pounds  and pence basis 
and was therefore unlikely to be sustainably  unaffordable for Mrs B. Better checks  would 
also have meant UK Credit was in the position  to consider the fact that the majority  of the 
benefits income was paid into an account  Mrs B had no control  over, and therefore she 
would not be in a position of control for loan repayments that she was solely responsible  for. 
So as a responsible lender it would have decided  not to approve  her application.
Mrs B also complained that the interest charged  on her loan was too high. From what I have 
seen, I think its likely  that Mrs B was aware that she was taking out a high cost
loan that carried  a high interest rate. UK Credit  says Mrs B was made  aware of this verbally 
before completion,  and I can see that the annual percentage rate (APR), the interest rate per 
annum and the total interest payable (charge for credit) were set out on Mrs Bs loan 
agreement. So I havent seen anything  which  makes  me think that UK Credit  treated Mrs B 
unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any event,  the 
interest and charges will be refunded as I dont think UK Credit  should have provided this 
loan to Mrs B.
Putting things  right 
Its reasonable for Mrs B to have  repaid  the capital amount that she borrowed as she had the 
benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things  right. 
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments
Mrs B made as payments towards  the capital.
Ref: DRN70260954If reworking Mrs Bs loan account results  in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital  borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Bs credit  file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  UK Credit  to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mrs Bs complaint and UK Credit Limited must out things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7026095