K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
him money  he couldnt afford to repay.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mr M between February 2017 and 
March 2018.
Heres a table with more  information about the loans:  
LoanDate TakenDate
RepaidInstalmentsAmountHighest
RepaymentDeferrals
1 07/02/201702/05/2017 6 £200.00 £70.66 1
2 18/05/201723/10/2017 5 £200.00 £105.60 0
3 05/11/201730/03/2018 4 £250.00 £107.50 2
4 30/03/201810/07/2018 6 £300.00 £114.80 0
Mr M complained that he was struggling financially when he took out these loans with 
Mr Lender and he kept on taking out more loans to help him pay back other loans.  
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out thorough checks which  
included income,  expenditure and credit checks. Mr Lender said it worked out that Mr M 
could afford  each repayment  without adversely affecting his finances.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part  he felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to provide loans 1  3 to Mr M, but that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent 
given Mr Ms borrowing history  and the repayment  problems  hed had on loan 3.
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.  
Mr Lender said our adjudicator was wrong  to say that Mr M had shown signs  of struggling to 
repay. It said that he had repaid all repayments on time - and hed paid loan 1 early,  in just 
4 repayments  even though loan 1 was for 6 instalments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN75067112But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Mr Lender what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit  arrangements  he had set up. Mr Lender carried  out 
checks on Mr Ms credit file. 
I appreciate that Mr Lender feels our adjudicator didnt  investigate the complaint thoroughly  
or explain his view as well as he couldve done.  Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ill explain  my reasons.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans 1 - 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information  gathered, including income  and expenditure 
information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender shouldnt  
have provided  these loans to Mr M. 
As Mr M hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators  recommendation in relation to these loans,  
I dont think I need  to say any more about  them.
Ref: DRN75067113But by the time Mr M asked for loan 4, Id expect Mr Lender to have taken into account  
Mr Ms borrowing history  and his repayment  record. 
Although Mr M repaid loan 1 early,  hed previously deferred one of his monthly repayments. 
And successfully repaying this loan early doesnt  mean he managed to do so in a 
sustainable way. He took out loan 2 just sixteen days after paying loan 1, and borrowed the 
same amount again, suggesting an ongoing need for this sort of expensive  credit.  
I think a reasonable  lender ought to have realised that his record of payment problems on 
loan 3, when hed had to defer two of the monthly repayments hed been  due to make,  
indicated that Mr M had money problems as hed found it difficult  to afford to pay for the 
borrowing hed taken  out. Loan 3 was paid around  a month after the original due date.
And when  Mr M paid loan 3, he took out loan 4 the same day  for more money than hed 
already shown he had a problem repaying. 
I think this suggested  that Mr M had to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances  and that his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Mr Lender to conclude  that it was likely Mr M would be 
able to repay loan 4 in a sustainable way. Mr Lender shouldve realised that this loan was 
likely to be unaffordable for Mr M. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loan 4.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do 
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr M the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Mr Lender  has recorded on Mr Ms credit file for 
loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN75067114my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 4 and direct  PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7506711