K821x#15complaint
Mrs H and Mr W have  complained about  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Limited (RSA). 
They arent happy about the way it dealt  with a claim under their buildings  insurance 
policy.
Other companies have  been involved in this complaint, but as RSA are responsible  for it Ive 
just referred to it in this decision.
background
I looked at the details  of this complaint previously and provided my provisional decision 
earlier this month as follows;
Mrs H and Mr W made a claim under their buildings insurance after they discovered a 
longstanding leak when  they returned  home.  The leak had caused  a significant amount of 
damage over a long period of time.
Unfortunately, the damage took a long time to repair and even  when it was repaired it was 
done to a poor standard. To the extent that a lot of the work  had to be redone  and another 
contractor appointed. So, Mrs H and Mr W complained to RSA and this service.
RSA acknowledged  that its service was poor;  that it delayed the repairs;  and that Mrs H and 
Mr W were kept away from their property because of the delays  and offered £1200  in 
acknowledgement of this. And it also offered a contribution  of £700 towards the cost of 
making good Mrs H and Mr Ws garden which had fallen into a state of disrepair. 
When our investigator looked  into things  for them she accepted that there were a number of 
avoidable delays  and poor service  generally. But she thought that RSAs  offer of £1,200  in 
recognition of the delay and poor service, in addition to the £700  contribution  towards the 
garden was fair.
But Mrs H and Mr W didnt agree.  They thought that the compensation level should  be 
significantly higher,  and that RSAs offer didnt recognise the long drawn out nature of the 
claim and the significant health concerns it caused.  So, the matter has been passed to me 
for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im presently minded to 
uphold this complaint as I think  the level of compensation  should  be increased - although not 
to the level that Mrs H and Mr W would like. Ill explain why.
I dont think any level of compensation will cover the poor health,  stress, hassle and 
inconvenience Mrs H and Mr W have been caused  by all of this. And I dont propose  to go 
over all the details of the claim and complaint which are well known to both sides  and the 
claim and repairs are now complete.  Although I note that Mrs H and Mr W have raised some 
new issues around the quality of repairs, but these will have to be advanced to RSA 
separately as they dont  form part of this complaint. But Ill stick to the key remaining issues 
around whether  RSAs  offer of compensation is sufficient to cover its errors.
Ref: DRN71520932While I can understand Mrs H and Mr Ws position  and frustration  about  how long it took to 
repair their property I think a lot of the stress  was caused by the level of repair  that was 
required. And the discovery of further  problems (such as asbestos) impacted upon  this. But I 
cant hold RSA responsible for all of the problems  incurred.  Unfortunately, there was always 
going to be a fair degree of stress and inconvenience given the level of repair required and 
the fact that alternative accommodation was needed.
However, I dont think its offer of £1,200 goes far enough here. I say this as I dont think this 
acknowledges the impact on their health generally  and the clear additional stress caused  by 
the upheaval of moving  around temporary  accommodation, of living  in the damp property for 
a period and the fact that the property should have been habitable months before it was, but 
the work  had to be redone because of poor workmanship.  So, while I dont think RSAs offer 
of compensation  was unreasonable I dont think it went far enough.
I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr W have made detailed submissions surrounding their 
circumstances and the claim. And Ive considered all these  in detail although  I havent  
elaborated on them here. But I accept  that the general delays; the moving to more than one 
temporary alternative accommodation;  the delays and very poor workmanship would of all 
impacted their health and caused substantial  stress  and inconvenience.  Given all of this, I 
think the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
RSA to pay Mrs H and Mr W £2,000 in compensation as opposed to £1,200.
Finally, turning to the repair of the garden. As our investigator explained their insurance  
policy didnt offer cover for this. I know from the quotes Mrs H and Mr W provided that the 
cost of making good the garden  would be a lot more  than RSA offered. But as the policy 
doesnt cover this I think that RSAs offer of £700  (in addition to the compensation outlined  
above) seems fair.
replies
Both sides responded to my provisional  decision. RSA said that the investigator had agreed  
with its position  and didnt feel that the level of increase  I had suggested was justified. It said 
there hadnt been any further evidence to warrant  an increase in compensation. So, RSA 
suggested that as the compensation was open to interpretation a further  £375  compensation 
(total of £1,625)  was the fairest way to resolve  the complaint. 
While Mrs H and Mr W said my provisional  decision was fair and balanced in general terms 
of acknowledging  our complaints but didnt feel that it took account  of the impact upon our 
health which this debacle caused. They outlined again the physical detriment on both their 
health, especially  Mr Ws as he feels that he sustained  a hernia moving around the 
temporary accommodation. And the general delays and problems encountered in moving  to 
the alternative accommodation generally. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  all of the further  
comments and original  evidence again I still think that the increase in compensation Ive 
suggested feels fair in the particular circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN71520933I dont propose to go over the detail of this complaint  again as Ive already considered  all of 
the issues above. However, I will comment generally on the further points raised  by both 
sides. 
RSA seems to acknowledge that its initial  offer of compensation didnt go far enough, as 
outlined above,  but feels that a further £375 compensation is fair. While I accept that an 
increase in compensation is due I dont  feel that would go far enough either. I agree  with 
RSA that there isnt any further or new evidence provided from the time our investigator first 
considered this complaint. But I feel that the compensation  initially  awarded just didnt cover 
the difficulties  Mrs H and Mr W faced.
I say this as I dont think the original offer, or RSAs  further offer outlined  in its response to 
my provisional decision, fully acknowledge the clear  impact on Mrs W and Mr Hs health  
generally or the stress  caused by the upheaval  of having to move  around the alternative 
accommodation  which should have been minimised and better  managed by RSA.  And I 
dont think the first award took account  of the fact that their property should have been 
habitable months before they were  able to move  back  which  is why I increased the level of 
compensation. 
Turning to Mrs H and Mr Ws further representations I have already considered  the impact  
on their health within  my provisional  decision. And as our investigator  outlined it is difficult to 
say for certain what impact the moves  had on Mr Ws hernia problem. However, I considered 
the effect on their health, in addition to the other issues outlined, when I suggested lifting  the 
compensation level to £2,000. I know they would like more but our awards are generally  
modest, and I feel that this is a fair amount  of compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Limited to pay £2,000 (total) in compensation.  This is in addition to the 
£700 contribution  towards making  good  Mrs H and Mr Ws garden.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 September 2021.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7152093