K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wouldnt refund a number 
of transactions  that he disputed, the majority having taken place in Dubai.
Mr H has sadly  passed away during the time that we have  been  looking into his complaint.
The complaint is now being brought by the representative of his estate.
background
Mr H complained about a series of transactions made using his first current account  and 
gold credit cards. These transactions took place between December 2016 and January 
2017. Mr H initially disputed making  the payments and then later provided  evidence that 
because of the medication  he was on, although he may have made  them, he wasnt able to 
consent to the payments and First Direct should  refund  them. At the time Mr H also raised 
several chargebacks  and these were defended by the merchants they were  raised  against.  
In summary  First Direct  did not refund the transactions it felt it had enough evidence to be 
satisfied that Mr H had made the payments and therefore didnt feel it was liable  to refund 
them.
I issued my provisional decision and I didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary  I said:
-I was satisfied that Mr H made  the payments;
-I considered the evidence  of Mr Hs mental  health and mental  state at the time but 
concluded that he had consented  to the payments and it was therefore fair for First 
Direct to have debited  his account;
-I considered the conversations between First Direct and Mr H during the time he was 
in Dubai and I didnt think First Direct  was at fault for debiting Mr Hs account;
-I thought it was likely Mr H benefitted  or at least had some  benefit of the transactions;
-I thought it was fair that First Direct didnt pursue further  chargeback attempts given 
the responses received on those it did make; and
-First Direct had decided to write off approximately £10,000 of debt that Mr H had 
accrued and I concluded that was a fair offer and for Mr Hs estate to decide if it 
accepted the offer in settlement of this complaint.
The representative for Mr Hs estate responded to my provisional decision saying they had 
nothing further  to add. First Direct didnt respond  within the deadline  set and didnt respond 
to chasers. 
Ref: DRN77269522As Mr Hs estate  didnt disagree with my findings  and First Direct didnt respond within the 
deadline set I dont propose  to say change my findings from those summarised above.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything  carefully  I dont uphold this complaint. As set out in my 
provisional findings First Direct have  written off around £10,000 of debt which is far in excess  
of any compensation  I would award  and isnt something Id have otherwise have asked them 
to do. I think in the circumstances,  this represents a fair and reasonable outcome. Ill leave it 
to Mr Hs estate  to decide whether to accept this offer in settlement of the complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Hs estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7726952