K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited turned down her 
claims under her pet insurance  policy. In this decision Ill use Red Sands to include its 
agents. 
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold this complaint:
Miss M took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy with Red Sands which started  on Tuesday 
15 May 2018. In the very early hours  of 29 May 2018 (01:00)  she called her vet as she was 
concerned her dog wouldnt settle.  The vet examined the dog in an out of hours 
consultation, and again over the next few days. Due to continued discomfort  in the dogs 
hind limbs and neck the vet arranged for x-rays and a referral  to a specialist centre.
Miss M claimed  for the treatment. But Red Sands  turned  down her claim (and continuation 
claim). It said the policy didnt cover any signs or symptoms  of illness  which occurred within  
the first 14 days of the policys start date.  The dog first showed  symptoms of illness on 
Monday 28 May 2018, which was within 14 days of the policys start date. Red Sands also 
put two exclusions  on the policy for neck, back and spine conditions  and for hind limb 
lameness and resulting conditions with effect  from the policys  start date. 
Miss M didnt agree with Red Sands decision, as shed not noticed any symptoms until 
01:00 on 29 May 2018. She came to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint, saying Miss M had first noticed her dog being  unwell 
at 01:00 on Tuesday 29 May 2018, which was outside the 14 day waiting period. He said 
Red Sands  should  consider the claims without reference to the 14 day exclusion period. 
Red Sands  didnt agree. It said the 14 days exclusion period included 29 May 2018. And it 
said Miss M had told its claims handler  shed noticed the dog being unsettled  on Monday 
28 May 2018. So the complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am likely  to uphold this 
complaint. 
The Red Sands policy excludes cover for any illness that first shows clinical signs or 
symptoms within 14 days of the policys start (commencement) date. Thats a common 
exclusion in pet insurance policies and we dont consider its unreasonable. 
the 14 day period
Miss Ms policy started  on Tuesday 15 May 2018.  Its not in dispute  that she called the vet at 
01:00 on Tuesday  29 May 2018. This is when she says she first noticed her dog was 
unsettled. 
Ref: DRN74321182I need to decide when  the 14 day waiting period  ended. The policy started on Tuesday 
15 May 2018. Red Sands says this means it started  at midnight (00:00) on 15 May. This is in 
line with the ordinary meaning of the word  day. 
So day 1 was 00:00 on Tuesday 15 May to 00:00 on Wednesday  16 May.  Day 2 was 00:00 
on 16 May to 00:00 on 17 May, and so on. 
This means  day 14 ended  at 00:00 on Monday 28 May 2018. And Miss M called the vet at 
01:00 on Tuesday  29 May 2018. 
As the investigator  said, the timing  is tight.  In the clinical notes for 29 May 2018 the vet said 
call OOH [out of hours] at 1am unsettled. Been fine today,  went  on a walk this morning. Ate 
evening meal fine The vet said the condition had started on 29 May 2018  on the claim 
form. The vet has also separately written to Red Sands  to say that the condition started  in 
the early hours of Tuesday  29 May,  and that before this the dog had been  fit and well.
So the evidence  of the vet who saw and treated the dog is that the dog had been well on the 
14th day of the policys waiting period and into the evening.  So I dont think Red Sands has 
shown that that it can rely on the 14 day exclusion to turn down the claims.
Red Sands  has referred to Miss M talking  about Monday when she spoke to it about  her 
claim  Monday being 28 May 2018.  Its plausible she was talking about Monday in the 
context of Monday  night  into Tuesday  morning.  On the same lines, I see the vet had also 
referred to the dog being fine and having  been on an a walk this morning  in her notes of 
the consultation in the early hours of 29 May even though this morning must have meant 
the morning of Monday 28 May.  
Even if the dog had become unsettled very late into the evening on 28 May 2018,  I think it 
would be unfair  for Red Sands to apply the policy terms  so strictly given  the very tight timing 
in this specific case. 
So I think the fair outcome is for Red Sands  to pay Miss Ms claims,  subject  to the policy 
excess. This means it cant rely on the exclusion for any illness showing signs or symptoms 
within 14 days of the policys commencement  date to turn down the claims. 
the policy exclusions for neck, back, spine and hind limb lameness
I see that Red Sands has placed two exclusions on the policy for claims with respect to the 
neck, back and spine with effect from 15 May 2018 and for claims in respect of anything  to 
do with the hindlimb lameness that occurred  on 28 May 2018  and resulting conditions with 
effect from 15 May 2018. 
We would  consider it fair for an insurer to apply a policy exclusion retrospectively only when 
the insurer could  show that a consumer  hadnt taken reasonable care in answering its clear 
questions when taking  out the policy. 
In this case, theres no evidence that Red Sands asked Miss M any questions  before she 
took out the policy. Instead it has relied on a list of presumptions about  her dogs health. 
This isnt enough for it to apply  retrospective exclusions to the policy because it hasnt asked 
clear questions for Miss M to answer.  
Ref: DRN74321183This means  Red Sands is not entitled  to add policy  exclusions  backdated to the policys  start 
date. This is a lifetime  policy so it is not entitled  to add the policy  exclusions at the policys  
renewal date either. It could do this only for an annual policy.
Miss M responded to say she was very pleased with the proposed outcome and that the 
comments were  in line with her disappointment  with Red Sands  handling  of the claim.  
Red Sands  didnt send any further  comments or evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been sent any additional  comments or evidence  to consider. So I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached  in my provisional  decision, which Ive set out. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint, and I require Red Sands to 
take the steps set out in the my final decision section below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  decision I uphold this complaint. I order Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Miss Ms claims, subject to any 
applicable excess but without reference to the policys 14 day exclusion period and without 
reference to the retrospective exclusions its added for neck, back, spine and hind limb 
lameness. If Miss M has paid the vets fees herself  then Red Sands must add simple  
interest* to the claims payments at the rate of 8% per year from the date of each claim until 
the date of settlement. 
I also order Red Sands to remove the policy  exclusions its added for claims with  respect  to 
the neck, back and spine  with effect from 15 May 2018 and for claims in respect of 
anything to do with the hindlimb lameness that occurred on 28 May 2018 and resulting 
conditions with effect from 15 May 2018.  Red Sands is not entitled to reapply these 
exclusions at the policy renewal dates, should  Miss M decide  to renew her policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7432118