K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So, the adjudicator sent out their view 
with the complaint set up against  FICL. However, FICL has now transferred  its insurance  
business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up against 
AXA.
So, Ive only referred  to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs S took out a store card in 1995. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs S £1.00  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly  outstanding balance if Mrs S was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been  cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with our adjudicator so complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mrs S was eligible for the PPI based  on her age and employment at the time of 
the sale. 
AXA had to make  it clear to Mrs S that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Ss consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs S says she wasnt aware she had been sold 
PPI and as such  it was sold without her consent.
I cant know for sure what happened  during the sale and AXA no longer have the documents 
from the time of the sale. However, this is understandable given that the sale took place 
almost 25 years ago. Equally Mrs S understandably no longer has the documents  from the 
time of the sale. So Ive thought carefully about  what Mrs S and AXA have told us in order  to 
help me decide  what is more likely  to have  happened.
AXA have told us that PPI was never a requirement to be approved for credit and that Mrs S 
would have been presented with an option to take PPI. This accords with my understanding  
of what the sales  process  was like at the time of the sale. And although I appreciate  what  
Ref: DRN72533752Mrs S has sold us, in the absence of stronger evidence, I am unable to conclude  that its 
more likely that on this particular occasion,  AXA didnt make it clear that the policy  was 
optional or that it was applied without Mrs Ss consent. 
From the information available  to me and what I know  of their sales  practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs S. So, for example, they didnt  have to ask 
about or consider Mrs Ss existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mrs S.
But AXA did have to give Mrs S clear information so that she could make  a proper choice 
about whether  to take the policy  out. I cant say that AXA gave  Mrs S all the information as 
they shouldve  about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main  exclusions and restrictions.  
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs S off taking the 
policy out. I dont  think it wouldve.  I say this because:
-I note what Mrs S has told us about her employee sick pay entitlement and her 
savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs S sick pay entitlement  
and her savings. And it would  have paid out for a longer period of time than her sick 
pay. It would  also have paid out if she lost her job.
-Mrs S didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by the more restrictive  terms in the policy  
such as those relating  to pre-existing  medical conditions and unusual  working  
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs S could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
-I havent seen  any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs S.
-Mrs S couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford  it or no longer wanted it.
So, based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs S was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7253375