K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains a catalogue shopping  account was opened fraudulently in his name with 
Next Retail  Limited.
background
An application for a credit account was made in Mr S name  in February 2019  Mr S says 
his personal details, including his address, were  used  to open the account. Mr S says 
spending took place on the account on the day it was opened and the following  day. When 
Mr S found  out that an account  had been  fraudulently opened, he contacted Next to let them 
know. Mr S is unhappy that he didnt  receive a call back from Nexts fraud department and 
he says he had to call them three times before  successfully getting through to an advisor.  
Mr S wants  Next to put more due diligence in place when  approving  applications for credit.
Next said when new customer details  are registered  online, a credit search is carried out. 
Unfortunately, in this case, the fraudster  had sufficient knowledge of Mr S personal  
information to pass these checks. Further to this, Next say they took a penny authorisation 
payment and asked  the applicant to confirm  Mr S home telephone number and previous 
address - information  the fraudster was able to answer correctly.
Next confirmed that once Mr S contacted  to let them know he hadnt opened a credit account  
with them,  the account was closed  and they removed search  information  for this account 
from Mr S credit  file. Next also say Mr S details are registered with the fraud database and 
that a restriction would be placed  on their systems  meaning it wouldnt be possible for further 
credit applications  to be approved without Mr S being contacted  first. Next offered Mr S £50 
to compensate him for the quality of their final response letter to him and for the delay in 
calling Mr S back.
Our investigator looked into Mr S concerns. He said the checks  carried out when the application 
was made  were done in line with standard industry checks and that the fraudster had enough of 
Mr S details to be able to open an account in his name. Our investigator  also felt Next had 
acted quickly to put things right when Mr S contacted them to notify them  of the fraudsters 
actions. Our investigator said the £50 compensation from Next was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed. He remained of the opinion Next failed  to carry out robust  security  checks  
which allowed the fraudster to open an account  using his details. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how distressing being the victim of fraud wouldve been for Mr S and I can 
understand Mr S frustration in someone  else being able to open  an account using some  of 
his personal details.
Mr S clearly  blames  Next for what has happened  here  he says there  was a lack of due 
diligence on Nexts  behalf. But ultimately it was someone else who committed fraud in Mr S 
name. Ive thought about the checks that were carried out by Next at the time and all in the 
circumstance, I think  the checks were reasonable. So I dont think I can fairly  hold Next liable 
for the fact that someone else has fraudulently  opened an account in Mr S name  in this case. 
Ref: DRN74497492I have listened  to the call between Mr S and Next when Mr S contacts  them on 7 February 
2019. Mr S agreed to having his information  registered on the fraud database to ensure he is 
contacted in the event of potential fraudulent accounts being  applied for using Mr S details 
in the future. During this call, the advisor also offered to pay the first months fee if Mr S 
chose to sign up to a fee charging credit reference  agency. This would allow  him to check 
his credit file for any other potential credit  accounts  Mr S may not be aware  of. The advisor 
also let Mr S know that steps  will be taken to ensure  a Next account isnt set up again in 
respect of Mr S current  address without contacting him first.
I note Mr S has said that Next caused him some inconvenience as they didnt call him back 
and he also had to call them three times  before eventually getting  through to an advisor. 
Mr S says he had to explain his situation  to a new advisor which  was frustrating. Next accept 
theyve caused  Mr S some inconvenience  and offered £50 compensation in recognition  of 
this. I can appreciate Mr S frustration,  especially at an already stressful time for him as I 
dont think he wouldve wanted to explain the situation again to a new advisor. But I think  
£50 compensation  fairly recognises  the stress and inconvenience caused  to Mr S.
As Ive explained above, I cant fairly  blame Next for the fraudulent account being opened in 
the first place - I think Next have acted fairly in the checks they carried  out. And Im satisfied 
that when Mr S made Next aware that an account  had been fraudulently  set up in his name, 
they took reasonable steps to ensure Mr S wasnt impacted any further  by the fraudsters 
actions. Next also arranged for the account  to be fully closed down and for information  about 
this account to be removed from Mr S credit file as Id have expected  them to. 
Next have said theyd  register Mr S details on the fraud database and refund  the first month 
of a fee Mr S may have  incurred when checking  his credit file. If Mr S feels theyve not done  
this, he should  get in touch with Next directly.  
Next have also already  offered to pay for the first months fee if Mr S chose to sign up to a 
fee charging credit reference agency and have also offered Mr S £50 compensation to settle 
the complaint.  I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that Next Retail Limited should  pay for the first month  fee if Mr S chose to 
sign up to a fee charging credit reference  agency.  Next Retail  Limited should also pay Mr S 
£50 compensation  for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7449749