K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that wed seen enough information to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H disagrees  with our adjudicators view. Mr H says he took out the card by filling in a 
leaflet and if the PPI had been properly explained  he wouldve realised that he didnt need  it. 
Mr H said he had good sick pay through his work  and other ways to pay his credit card.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Where theres only limited information about  what happened I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely. Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely on Mr H being  able to remember everything accurately  as it 
happened so long ago. So I cant know exactly what, if anything, Lloyds said to Mr H when 
he took out PPI. But under the heading  OPTIONAL FEATURES on the card application 
form Mr H had to tick to say if he required PPI. So I think its likely that Mr H wouldve been 
able to see at the time that having the PPI was a matter of choice.  And he did tick the box to 
say he wanted  it, and signed  the form.
It looks to me as if Mr H couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim.  So, on 
balance, I think its likely  that Mr H decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and 
Lloyds added PPI to his account  at his request. 
In fairness to Mr H, Lloyds treated this as an advised  sale  in other  words,  as if it had 
advised him personally to have PPI. This means it not only had to give him important policy 
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr H.
PPI wouldve  covered Mr H for up to 12 months  per claim  in the event of accident or 
sickness if he couldnt work. And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So the PPI wouldve paid out in full for longer than Mr H couldve depended on his employer 
paying him full sick pay. I think that couldve been a useful benefit   especially if he had 
extra costs  as a result of being ill or disabled.  Being  entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt 
have helped Mr H if he was off work  sick. And PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to any 
redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr H some  additional  financial 
security in those circumstances.
Ref: DRN79488662Ive taken into account that Mr H mentioned he had some savings at the time. But I dont 
know if he wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than its likely the amount of savings hes mentioned 
wouldve lasted if hed had to rely on these  to cover outgoings when he was unable to work. 
So I think that PPI was suitable for Mr H based on what hes told us about  his 
circumstances.
Mr H was eligible for the cover. There were some  things  the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt 
look as if this wouldve  affected Mr H. So I dont think that having more information  about the 
policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr H off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr H made a claim. But I think Mr H chose to take out the policy   so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. It seems to have been affordable for him. Mr H 
couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if he no longer wanted to pay for PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Mr H wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think hed still have  taken out 
the policy. 
This means  Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Lloyds Bank PLC got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr H about that. Because Lloyds Bank PLC 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank  PLC has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this. So 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7948866