K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the sale of their private medical  insurance policy by The 
Private Healthcare Company Ltd (PHC). 
background
In 2016, Mr and Mrs W decided  to switch their private medical  insurance  provider  after 
receiving advice from PHC. It was taken  out in Mrs Ws name,  but Mr W was also covered 
under the policy.  
The new policy  was taken  out on a moratorium basis. That meant that any medical 
conditions in the previous five years wouldnt be covered until Mr and Mrs W had been 
trouble-free from the conditions for two years in a row after taking out the policy.  Trouble-
free meant not having had a medical opinion, taken medication, followed a special diet, had 
medical treatment or visited  any medical  practitioner. 
Mr W made a claim under the policy the following year. The claim  was turned down by the 
insurer as it fell under the moratorium. Mr and Mrs W complained to PHC  about the sale of 
the policy. They said they hadnt  been  told about  the moratorium when they took out the 
policy. PHC didnt uphold their complaint, so they brought the matter here. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought PHC had explained  
how the moratorium worked when the policy was sold. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, so the matters  been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs W initially said that PHC didnt bring  the moratorium to their attention when the 
policy was taken out. Theyve since listened to the calls and accept that the moratorium  was 
discussed. However, they say the PHC adviser  only focused  on their medical history in the 
previous five years. They explain Mr W had a knee problem that predated  the five year 
period, yet it still fell under  the moratorium when he later made a claim under the policy.
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Mrs W and PHC. The PHC adviser  asked 
Mrs W about any symptoms, treatment  or advice for existing or new medical conditions she 
and her husband had had in the past five years. I think this was correct. Any medical  
problems that predated  the five year period  which  werent ongoing wouldnt be relevant. Mrs 
W told the adviser about a few medical  problems  they had, but didnt  mention  her husbands 
knee problem. 
Ref: DRN79717802Since the insurer turned down Mr Ws claim relating to his knee, I would assume  he was 
having problems  with his knee in that five year period. If Mrs W had mentioned  this then the 
adviser could have let her know that this would  fall under the moratorium  unless Mr W had a 
two year trouble-free period after taking out the policy.  If Mr and Mrs W had decided they 
particularly wanted  cover for Mr Ws long-term  knee problem and didnt think  hed be likely to 
have a two year trouble-free period,  they could have remained with their previous insurer. 
However, they gave  no indication  that they wanted cover for any long-term conditions.
Mr and Mrs W think PHC should  not have sold them a policy  with moratorium  underwriting 
because of their ages. They think senior citizens would find it almost impossible to adhere to 
the harsh terms of the moratorium because of the bodys natural  aging process. However,  
like the adjudicator, I dont  think moratorium underwriting is necessarily unsuitable  for older  
customers. Instead I think it depends  on the individuals medical history and circumstances.
Based on the medical problems Mrs W told the PHC adviser  about,  he thought moratorium 
underwriting was a suitable option  for her and her husband. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. Although Mrs W had two ongoing  medical problems, the adviser  established 
that she was under  the care of the NHS for these. I think the adviser could have made it a 
little clearer that these conditions would fall under  the moratorium, but he did explain the 
policy was being  taken out on a moratorium basis and what that meant. Mrs W was happy to 
go ahead  on that basis. 
After Mrs W agreed  to take out the policy, the PHC  adviser sent her written confirmation of 
this in a letter dated 13 January 2016. This letter gave a clear explanation of what was 
meant by the moratorium. 
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  receive  the letter  of 13 January 2016, and if they had received  
it and read the moratorium explanation, they probably wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
After obtaining  a copy of the letter in its original format from PHC, Mr and Mrs W have raised 
some concerns about the letter. They said the properties of the document  werent  following 
the normal protocols.  They therefore thought  the document had been electronically 
tampered with. For example, the date and time it had been  created was the same date and 
time that they had opened the document. This was clearly not correct.  Also, the document 
showed that the content had been created in 2014 and the title referred to a couple  with a 
different name.
We asked PHC about this. It sent us a screenshot of Mrs Ws electronic file which  shows 
which documents have  been created. I see a document  with the title Application 
Confirmation was created on 13 January 2016. PHC have opened this alongside the 
electronic file and Im satisfied this was the letter it says was sent to Mrs W which confirmed 
shed been enrolled onto the policy and also set out the moratorium explanation. 
PHC has also sent us a screenshot which shows basic  information about that document  
stored within the word  processor. This shows it was indeed created in 2014 and had the title 
of a couple with a different name. PHC has explained the reason for that is because the 
initial document was created in 2014 and is used as a template for other customers,  and is 
edited accordingly. I accept this explanation.  However, crucially, the screenshot  shows  the 
document was last modified on 13 January 2016.  This was the date PHC says it sent the 
letter.
Ref: DRN79717803Im satisfied PHC has therefore  shown that the document  was last updated on 13 January 
2016, which was the date shown on the letter. I havent seen any evidence  that the letter 
was somehow tampered with or amended after this date.  I cant  of course be certain  that 
the letter was sent to Mrs W, but I see it had the correct address on the letter.  On balance,  I 
think its likely it was sent.
In any event, as the adjudicator has pointed out, this letter wasnt the only time the 
moratorium was explained.  It had already been explained verbally  to Mrs W before she 
agreed to take out the policy.  Furthermore, details of how the moratorium  worked were also 
contained in the policy document which was sent to Mrs W on 26 January 2016 and which 
she received.
Overall, Im satisfied PHC provided  Mr and Mrs W with sufficient  information  about how the 
policy worked, including the moratorium, for them to make an informed decision as to 
whether or not to take it out. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7971780