K822xcomplaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a delay by IG Index Limited (IG) in returning money he deposited 
in his trading account.
background 
IG appears to concede responsibility for the delay and has apologised to Mr M. The dispute 
that remains in about Mr Ms assertion that IGs offer of £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter  is insufficient  IG considers that it is a fair offer.
Evidence suggests that Mr M deposited  £1,500 into the account  around May 2018; he did 
not trade with it and then asked for its return;  IG says inactivity  with the money triggered 
application of its anti-money laundering process, which was delayed; it says one of the 
reasons for the delay was its failure to acknowledge existing proof of the source of the 
deposit which it had in its records but had not noticed; in its email to Mr M in July 2018  it 
confirmed that the money would be remitted to him the following day and offered him £100. 
IG later explained to this service that its offer equates to around  40% interest on the money 
for the two months over which it was withheld  and that this is more  than sufficient.
The matter  was referred to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. He 
agreed with IGs compensation offer, as a fair and reasonable basis to conclude the 
complaint. Mr M disagreed and stressed  that IG had been  unduly difficult during the process 
and had disregarded his repeated attempts to make  it understand that he had previously 
passed its verification  process by providing  his bank statement(s). 
The adjudicator explained that it is beyond the remit of this service to make  punitive awards 
and that, in terms of reflecting the trouble and upset caused to Mr M, IGs offer of £100 is 
broadly similar to what he would ask it to pay. He noted that additional compensation could 
be considered  with evidence that the delay caused  Mr M an actual financial loss or caused 
an effect on his health,  but Mr M does not appear  to have responded to say either of these 
grounds applies to him. The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate the trouble and inconvenience  that Mr M has described.  I note that the 
adjudicator assured him that no disregard is intended towards the effect of the problem upon 
him and I echo that assurance. However, as the adjudicator also said,  it is not in this 
services remit  to make punitive  awards. A fair basis upon which to consider compensation in 
a complaint like Mr Ms is to reflect, in monetary  terms, the trouble and upset he was caused. 
In this respect, I too consider  that a £100  is broadly consistent with what this service  would  
award for trouble and upset in a case like his. 
In addition, I am persuaded by IGs reference  to interest as a point to consider. In real 
terms, the effect of the problem Mr M faced in the withdrawal process  was mainly that he 
was deprived of his money for a period of time. He wrote to this service in October 2018 to 
confirm that his money had been  returned.  IGs communication to him in July said the 
payment would be made the following day. The initial deposit appears to have been in May. 
Ref: DRN76779142For successful complainants who have been deprived of the use of their money  this service 
can apply interest at the rate of 8% simple per year. Mr M appears to have been deprived of 
his £1,500 for no more than around four months.  For such  an amount  and for such  a period  
the interest that could be applicable is less than the £100 that IG has offered him. I consider 
that this adds to the reasonableness of IGs offer.
The adjudicator is correct in saying that additional  compensation  could be considered  where 
there is evidence of an actual financial loss or heightened trouble and upset in relation to 
detriment on a complainants  health.  Neither  appears to apply in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order IG Index Limited to pay 
him the £100  that it has offered for the trouble and upset caused  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7677914