K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Nationwide Building Society  will not refund any of the commission  
it received from his PPI premiums for the policy that he took out to cover his mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr Ws complaint about commission. Thats  
because his complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI has previously been dealt with.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about commission. Ill explain why below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. But it was possible for mortgages  taken  out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mr W took out his mortgage  in 2001. From the information Nationwide has provided, Mr W 
made a change to his mortgage in 2008 and Nationwide has told us the entire  mortgage  
became regulated at that point. Based on what  we have seen and what we know  about how 
Nationwide completed  these changes, Im satisfied that Mr Ws mortgage did become 
regulated.
As Mr Ws mortgage  became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer under the scope 
of the Consumer Credit  Act or the FCAs relevant rules and guidance. So Nationwide doesnt  
need to refund any of the commission Mr W paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Mr W says his mortgage wasnt regulated when the PPI was sold.  And this is correct.  But the 
unfair relationship provisions and the new rules  and guidance only started to apply to a 
mortgage that was already running,  if the mortgage  was still running and was still covered by 
the Consumer  Credit Act on 6 April 2008.  Mr Ws mortgage was still running  on 6 April 2008, 
but it had become regulated so it wasnt covered  by the Consumer Credit  Act anymore. And 
so the unfair  relationship provisions and the new rules and guidance  never applied  to it.
Ref: DRN76392582my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639258