K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr M says The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
RBS had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his mortgage. I dont  know  for certain  what was said at the time Mr M applied  for his 
mortgage and PPI but RBS has provided  a copy of the available  paperwork. Mr M completed  
and signed an application form to take the PPI separately to agreeing with his mortgage. So 
with this in mind I think RBS made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out knowing the other means he had available  of making 
his repayments,  which included statutory sick pay. But the amount he would have received 
would have been minimal  and the PPI would have paid out in addition to this, and for longer.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN75022432RBS should pay back to Mr M the extra  he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. RBS should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7502243