K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Metro Bank PLC failed  to give her the full balance of her account 
when it decided to close it. She says it took up a lot of her time sorting things out.
background
Metro Bank  PLC told Miss N it was closing her account so she went  into branch  to withdraw 
the funds. Unfortunately  the cashier  left a balance of 49 pence on the account. When  Miss N 
realised there were still funds on the account,  she contacted  Metro  to ask for the remaining 
amount. Metro tried to contact her but only managed to speak  to her around twelve  days  
later. It said it could give the remaining  balance in a branch,  by cheque or by transfer to 
another account. But Miss N wasnt happy with these options so she complained. 
Metro looked into her complaint but rejected it. It accepted it had made a mistake and 
apologised but said it had done  all it could to put things right. Miss N wasnt  happy  with this 
so she came to this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  the cashier made a mistake 
when Miss N wanted to withdraw the balance,  Metro has apologised for that and said it will 
learn from this error. Its now sent a cheque to Miss N for the remaining funds so I dont think  
shes suffered any financial loss as a result  of the mistake. I understand that its been a 
frustrating experience for Miss N, particularly as Metro decided  to close  the account. But I 
can see Metro did make efforts to call Miss N shortly after the issue occurred but wasnt  able 
to get hold of her. Based on what Ive seen, I think  Metros taken reasonable steps to put 
things right so I dont think the complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7465093