K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mrs H says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Hs mortgage  application and theres a section related to PPI. The 
box opting for accident and sickness only cover. Other details, including  the level of benefit 
required, have  been entered. Mrs H says she was told she had to have the PPI to get the 
mortgage. But I cant see anything that says the policy was compulsory.  And from what we 
know about how B&B sold these  types of policies,  it usually made it clear it was optional. On 
balance I think its likely  B&B made  it clear  that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why she cant  remember this.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So there  was nothing 
Mrs H says she had sick pay benefits from his employer she could have used if she needed 
to make her mortgage repayments. The policy wouldve paid alongside  any employee 
benefits she received  and for considerably longer. So I think  the policy would have been 
useful to her.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. 
But B&B has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  B&B didnt  tell Mrs H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
Ref: DRN76520002But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this  
and has now agreed to re-issue the payment using  Mrs Hs married  name.  So I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652000